21741929	In Sub-Saharan Africa, some individuals infected with malaria are also infected with helminths. However, the magnitude and distribution of such coinfections in relation to eco-systems remains poorly defined. This study was undertaken to determine the prevalence of Plasmodium falciparum and helminth coinfections among schoolchildren in relation to agro-ecosystems in Mvomero District, Tanzania. The agro-ecosystems were categorised as sugarcane, traditional flooding rice irrigation, improved non-flooding rice irrigation and savannah. Schoolchildren had their blood examined for P. falciparum and Wuchereria bancrofti; urine for Schistosoma haematobium and stool for intestinal helminths. Blood samples were also examined for haemoglobin concentration. A total of 578 schoolchildren (mean age = 7.96 years) were involved in the study. Overall, 60% of all schoolchildren had at least an infection of either P. falciparum, W. bancrofti, S. haematobium or hookworm. The highest prevalence of P. falciparum (75.3%), W. bancrofti (62.9%) and hookworm (24.7%) infections was observed among children in flooding rice irrigation ecosystem. P. falciparum+S. haematobium (10.9%) and P. falciparum+W. bancrofti (11.1%) were the most prevalent types of coinfection in the area. The highest prevalence of double parasitic infections was observed among children in the flooding rice irrigation ecosystems. The risk for acquiring coinfections of P. falciparum+W. bancrofti was significantly higher among children in the flooding rice irrigation ecosystem. Forty-five (7.8%) children were coinfected with three types of parasitic infections. The risk of acquiring triple infection among children from flooding rice irrigation was higher for P. falciparum+S. haematobium+W. bancrofti (p<0.001). Seven schoolchildren (1.2%) were found infected with four parasites and all were from the flooding rice irrigation ecosystem. Significantly high P. falciparum geometric parasite density was observed among children coinfected with either hookworms or W. bancrofti (p<0.001). On average, 17.8% (103/578) of the children had enlarged spleens. Over 3- and 4-folds increase in the risk of having an enlarged spleen were observed among children coinfected with P. falciparum+S. haematobium and P. falciparum+W. bancrofti, respectively. The overall prevalence of anaemia (<11.5g/dl) was 61.9% (358/578). Malaria-helminth coinfections are prevalent among schoolchildren in rural Tanzania and the pattern varies between agro-ecosystems. Results of this study suggest that integrated control of malaria and helminthes should be designed based on the local agro-ecosystems.
21742879	Acidovorax avenae subsp. avenae is a phytobacterium which is the causative agent of several plant diseases with economic significance. Here, we present the draft genome sequence of strain RS-1, which was isolated from rice shoots in a rice field in China. This strain can cause bacterial stripe of rice.
21742907	Pseudomonas sp. strain SJT25, which strongly antagonizes plant pathogens, was isolated from rice rhizosphere soil by a bioactivity-guided approach. A novel antiphytopathogenic compound was isolated from the fermentation broth of Pseudomonas sp. SJT25 and identified as 2-heptyl-5-hexylfuran-3-carboxylic acid. This compound showed antimicrobial activities both in vitro and in vivo.
21743085	An anther includes sporophytic tissues of three outer cell layers and an innermost layer, the tapetum, which encloses a locule where the gametophytic microspores mature to become pollen. The sporophytic tissues also comprise some vascular cells and specialized cells of the stomium aligning the long anther axis for anther dehiscence. Studies of the anther sporophytic cells, especially the tapetum, have recently expanded from the use of microscopy to molecular biology and transcriptomes. The available sequencing technologies, plus the use of laser microdissection and in silico subtraction, have produced high-quality anther sporophyte transcriptomes of rice, Arabidopsis and maize. These transcriptomes have been used for research discoveries and have potential for future discoveries in diverse areas, including developmental gene activity networking and changes in enzyme and metabolic domains, prediction of protein functions by quantity, secretion, antisense transcript regulation, small RNAs and promoters for generating male sterility. We anticipate that these studies with rice and other transcriptomes will expand to encompass other plants, whose genomes will be sequenced soon, with ever-advancing sequencing technologies. In comprehensive gene activity profiling of the anther sporophyte, studies involving transcriptomes will spearhead investigation of the downstream gene activity with proteomics and metabolomics.
21744228	In plant breeding with intensive selection, the haplotype patterns in the targeted chromosomal regions may become monogenic among local populations with the most desirable combination of loci. This study demonstrated that the chromosomal region surrounding qLTG3-1 was under selection during rice breeding programs in a local region of Japan, Hokkaido. qLTG3-1 is a major quantitative trait loci controlling tolerance to low-temperature at the seed germination stage in rice, termed low-temperature germinability. A clear association between qLTG3-1 alleles and low-temperature germinability was detected among 64 rice cultivars from Hokkaido. The allele with a loss-of-function mutation seemed to be selected during rice breeding programs. Comparison of haplotype patterns along with the short arm of chromosome 3 revealed that the selection of qLTG3-1 alleles was focused on a distinct chromosomal region of at most 130 kb. In the short arm of chromosome 3, two major traits associated with the adaptability to local conditions have been identified; eating quality and heading date. This study demonstrated that recombinant haplotype patterns for these traits might shape the adaptability to local environmental conditions and market demands during rice breeding programs in addition to the selection of qLTG3-1 alleles. The present results provide new opportunities for the design of hybridization combinations based on the haplotype patterns of chromosomal regions under selection during rice breeding programs in local regions.
21744355	The widespread geogenic arsenic contamination of groundwater in the Gangetic Delta of West Bengal, leading to toxicities through the food chain-principally through irrigated rice-drew due attention from researchers. Oilseeds such as sesame might be a remunerative alternative to rice and can be grown with small quantities of contaminated groundwater. The present study was conducted to explore the efficiency of organic matter in reducing arsenic accumulation in sesame. Accumulation of total arsenic in sesame seed and available arsenic in post-harvest soils varied from 0.08 to 0.58 mg kg(-1) and from 3.87 to 8.89 kg ha(-1) , respectively. The organic manures added as soil amendment significantly reduced the accumulation (concentration) of arsenic in sesame seed to a maximum extent of 65.5% (vermicompost), 50% (phosphocompost), 42% (mustard cake) and 40% (farmyard manure (FYM)) compared with the control counterpart. The risk associated with dietary exposure to arsenic-contaminated sesame oil reached a value of 15.55% of provisional tolerable weekly intake for arsenic at the maximum accumulation of arsenic in sesame oil. Substantial accumulation of arsenic in the soil-plant system was found. Risks of exposure to arsenic-contaminated oil remained considerably high. Irrigation through surface water and organic amendments both significantly reduced arsenic accumulation in sesame.
21745142	In this study, we report genome size variations in Corchorus olitorius L. (Malvaceae s.l.), a crop species known for its morphological plasticity and broad geographical distribution, and Corchorus capsularis L., the second widely cultivated species in the genus. Flow cytometric analyses were conducted with several tissues and nuclei isolation buffers using 69 accessions of C. olitorius and 4 accessions of C. capsularis, representing different habitats and geographical origins. The mean 2C nuclear DNA content (± SD) of C. olitorius was estimated to be 0.918 ± 0.011 pg, with a minimum of 0.882 ± 0.004 pg, and a maximum of 0.942 ± 0.004 pg. All studied plant materials were found to be diploid with 2n = 14. The genome size is negatively correlated with days to flowering (r = -0.29, p < 0.05) and positively with seed surface area (r = 0.38, p < 0.05). Moreover, a statistically significant positive correlation was detected between genome size and growing elevation (r = 0.59, p < 0.001) in wild populations. The mean 2C nuclear DNA content of C. capsularis was estimated to be 0.802 ± 0.008 pg. In comparison to other economically important crop species, the genome sizes of C. olitorius and C. capsularis are much smaller, and therewith closer to that of rice. The relatively small genome sizes will be of general advantage for any efforts into genomics or sequencing approaches of these species.
21745390	The ubiquitin protein is present in all eukaryotic cells and promoters from ubiquitin genes are good candidates to regulate the constitutive expression of transgenes in plants. Therefore, two switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) ubiquitin genes (PvUbi1 and PvUbi2) were cloned and characterized. Reporter constructs were produced containing the isolated 5' upstream regulatory regions of the coding sequences (i.e. PvUbi1 and PvUbi2 promoters) fused to the uidA coding region (GUS) and tested for transient and stable expression in a variety of plant species and tissues. PvUbi1 consists of 607 bp containing cis-acting regulatory elements, a 5' untranslated region (UTR) containing a 93 bp non-coding exon and a 1291 bp intron, and a 918 bp open reading frame (ORF) that encodes four tandem, head -to-tail ubiquitin monomer repeats followed by a 191 bp 3' UTR. PvUbi2 consists of 692 bp containing cis-acting regulatory elements, a 5' UTR containing a 97 bp non-coding exon and a 1072 bp intron, a 1146 bp ORF that encodes five tandem ubiquitin monomer repeats and a 183 bp 3' UTR. PvUbi1 and PvUbi2 were expressed in all examined switchgrass tissues as measured by qRT-PCR. Using biolistic bombardment, PvUbi1 and PvUbi2 promoters showed strong expression in switchgrass and rice callus, equaling or surpassing the expression levels of the CaMV 35S, 2x35S, ZmUbi1, and OsAct1 promoters. GUS staining following stable transformation in rice demonstrated that the PvUbi1 and PvUbi2 promoters drove expression in all examined tissues. When stably transformed into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), the PvUbi2+3 and PvUbi2+9 promoter fusion variants showed expression in vascular and reproductive tissues. The PvUbi1 and PvUbi2 promoters drive expression in switchgrass, rice and tobacco and are strong constitutive promoter candidates that will be useful in genetic transformation of monocots and dicots.
21745627	The glycemic response (GR) to food is influenced by both intrinsic and extrinsic factors. A consistent observation in GR studies is the wide within- and between-individual variations. The authors hypothesize that between-individual variations in the GR, insulin response (IR) and gastric emptying occur even when food particle size is standardized. Volunteers were tested on 2 nonconsecutive days after an overnight fast in randomized order. On 1 day, the volunteers consumed large (>2000 μm) rice particles, and on the second day, small rice particles (500-1000 μm). Subsequently, gastric emptying using the sodium [(13)C] acetate breath test (for 240 minutes) and GR and IR (for 120 minutes) from finger-prick blood samples were measured. The incremental area under the curve (IAUC) for the GR for small particles varied 45% more compared with whole rice. The small particles elicited a significantly greater GR IAUC than the large particles. The standard deviations associated with the IR IAUC for the small particles was 140% greater than that of the large particles. The total IAUC for IR was also significantly greater for the small particles than the large particles. The between-individual variations associated with gastric emptying times were similar for both samples. The gastric emptying latency phase, lag, and half time were significantly shorter for the small particles. Ingesting small particles causes faster gastric emptying and produces greater glycemic and IRs. Between-individual variations in GR and IR can be observed even when all the food associated factors including ingested particle size (mastication) are controlled for in humans.
21745737	Carbon black is a form of amorphous carbon that is produced by incomplete combustion of petroleum- or some plant-derived materials and has a number of industrial uses. A process consisting of hydrolysis, carbonization and pyrolysis of rice husk was developed. Under optimal hydrolysis conditions (72 wt.% sulfuric acid, 50°C, 10 min), a hydrolysis ratio of 52.72% was achieved. After carbonization of the hydrolysis solution by water bath, the solid carbon was further pyrolyzed. As the pyrolysis temperature was increased from 400 to 800°C, the carbon content increased from 83.41% to 94.66%, the number of O-H, C-H, CO, and CC surface functional groups decreased, and based on Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) results, the specific surface area and pore volume of carbon black increased from 389 to 1,034 m(2)/g and from 0.258 to 0.487 cm(3)/g, respectively. X-ray diffraction pattern (XRD) and Raman spectroscopy analyses of samples pyrolyzed at 400-800°C showed a localized graphitic structure. It is possible that the hydrolysis/carbonization/pyrolysis process developed in this study could also be applicable to the preparation of carbon black from other types of biomass.
21747178	A rapid determination method of (87)Sr/(86)Sr and Pb isotope ((204)Pb, (206)Pb, (207)Pb, and (208)Pb) ratios was applied to determining the geographic origin of grain crops. This new method is more economical in terms of both time and cost compared to conventional methods. We used samples of barley (n = 321), rice (n = 111), and wheat (n = 93) grown in various countries. (87)Sr/(86)Sr versus Sr concentration plots for the barley and wheat showed differences between products from Australia and those from other countries. Graphs of the Pb isotope ratios, comprising 15 two-dimensional plots, gave rise to a particular distribution for each country of production. The presented method showed promise for determining the production countries of grains by using the isotope ratios of Sr and Pb.
21748436	In this study, we investigated whether fermented rice bran (FRB) can ameliorate the oxidative stress induced by high glucose and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in 3T3-L1 adipocytes by analyzing reactive oxygen species (ROS), oil red O staining, as well as the expression of mRNAs related to glucose homeostasis and adipogenesis. It was first confirmed that rice bran fermented by Issatchenkia orientalis MFST1 extract increased free phenolic content compared to non-fermented rice bran. The FRB extract strongly inhibited ROS generation and upregulated the expression of PPAR-γ and adiponectin. Moreover, FRB upregulated GLUT4 related to glucose transportation and insulin sensitivity. Taken together, FRB extract ameliorated oxidative stress-induced insulin resistance by neutralizing free radicals and upregulating adiponectin in adipocytes. Our results provide information toward understanding the beneficial effects of FRB on oxidative stress.
21748588	Rice (Oryza sativa) glutamate synthase (GOGAT, EC 1.4.1.14) enzymes have been proposed to have great potential for improving nitrogen use efficiency, but their functions in vivo and their effects on carbon and nitrogen metabolism have not been systematically explored. In this research, we analyzed transcriptional profiles of rice GOGAT genes using a genome-wide microarray database, and investigated the effects of suppression of glutamate synthase genes on carbon and nitrogen metabolism using GOGAT co-suppressed rice plants. Transcriptional profiles showed that rice GOGAT genes were expressed differently in various tissues and organs, which suggested that they have different roles in vivo. Compared with the wild-type, tiller number, total shoot dry weight, and yield of GOGAT co-suppressed plants were significantly decreased. Physiological and biochemical studies showed that the contents of nitrate, several kinds of free amino acids, chlorophyll, sugars, sugar phosphates, and pyridine nucleotides were significantly decreased in leaves of GOGAT co-suppressed plants, but the contents of free ammonium, 2-oxoglutarate, and isocitrate in leaves were increased. We conclude that GOGATs play essential roles in carbon and nitrogen metabolism, and that they are indispensable for efficient nitrogen assimilation in rice.
21749035	Transgenic rice TT51-1 (BT63) is an insect resistant strain that was granted for safety certificate in China in 2009. This study characterizes the transgenic event TT51-1 using a GenomeWalker strategy. The organization of the transgenes indicated that the transgenes on two plasmids, pFHBT1 and pGL2RC7, had been integrated at the same locus. The sequence of the event TT51-1 spanned 8725 bp, including a truncated Cry1Ab/Ac cassette, an intact Cry1Ab/Ac cassette, two Amp gene segments, and an Hph gene segment. The 5' and 3' plant flanking sequences were isolated and used to locate the transgenes to chromosome 10 in TT51-1. The isolated TT51-1 fragment and a fragment of the rice PLD gene were integrated into a plasmid vector, to create plasmid pK-TT51 as a calibrator for detecting rice containing TT51-1. Analysis of unknown samples indicated that the reference plasmid was a reliable alternative to TT51-1 genomic DNA.
21749042	Compounds of the type M(2)Bz(3) (Bz = benzene, C(6)H(6)) have been of interest since the related triple-decker mesitylenechromium sandwich (1,3,5-Me(3)C(6)H(3))(3)Cr(2) has been synthesized and characterized structurally by X-ray crystallography. Theoretical studies predict the lowest-energy M(2)Bz(3) structures of the early transition metals Ti, V, and Cr to be the triple-decker sandwiches trans-Bz(2)M(2)(η(6),η(6)-μ-C(6)H(6)) having quintet, triplet, and singlet spin states, respectively. In these structures, the central benzene ring functions as a hexahapto ligand to each metal atom. The singlet rice-ball cis-Bz(2)M(2)(μ-C(6)H(6)) structures with a 2.64-Å Mn═Mn double bond or a 2.81-Å Fe-Fe single bond are preferred for the central transition metals Mn and Fe. Singlet triple-decker-sandwich structures trans-Bz(2)M(2)(μ-C(6)H(6)) return as the lowest-energy structures for the late transition metals Co and Ni but with the central benzene ring only partially bonded to each metal atom. Thus, the lowest-energy cobalt derivative has a trans-Bz(2)Co(2)(η(3),η(3)-μ-C(6)H(6)) structure in which the central benzene ring acts as a trihapto ligand to each metal atom. Similarly, the lowest-energy nickel derivative has a trans-Bz(2)Ni(2)(η(2),η(2)-μ-C(6)H(6)) structure in which the central benzene ring acts as a dihapto ligand to each metal atom, leaving an uncomplexed C═C double bond. The metal-metal bond orders in the singlet "rice-ball" structures cis-Bz(2)M(2)(μ-C(6)H(6)) (M = Mn, Fe) and the hapticities of the central benzene rings in the singlet late-transition-metal triple-decker-sandwich structures trans-Bz(2)M(2)(μ-C(6)H(6)) (M = Co, Ni) are governed by the desirability for the metal atoms to attain the favored 18-electron configuration.
21749058	Imazethapyr (IM) is a chiral herbicide and a widely used racemic mixture. This report investigated the enantioselectivity between R- and S-IM in rice and explored its causative mechanism at the physiological and molecular levels. The results suggested that R-IM inhibited acetolactate synthase (ALS) activity to a greater extent than S-IM, which reduced the synthesis of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). Additionally, most other amino acids showed enantioselectivity. On the cellular level, R-IM showed stronger toxicity against protoplasts than S-IM. A gene transcription profile analysis showed that gene transcripts in many metabolic pathways, including amino acid metabolism, photosynthesis, starch and sugar metabolism, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle displayed enantioselectivity between the IM enantiomers. R-IM regulated more genes more strongly than S-IM. This study suggested that R-IM has stronger toxicity against plants than S-IM; this toxicity is caused not only by changing targeted enzyme activity and amino acid synthesis, but also by affecting gene transcription in other metabolic pathways directly or indirectly in an enantioselective manner.
21749231	The progeny production and development rates of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans when treated with deoxynivalenol (DON) were examined. Both purified DON and a crude extract from Fusarium graminearum cultured on rice were tested on C. elegans wild-type (Bristol N2) and a mutant strain (AU1). Significant effects (Tukey-HSD, p<0.05) on brood size and the rate of larval development from egg to adulthood were observed. Both N2 and AU1 strains showed lower rates of development and smaller brood sizes when exposed to purified DON at concentrations of 500 and 1000 µg ml(-1) When they were exposed to crude extract containing 250 µg ml(-1) DON, the inhibition of egg hatching and a greatly reduced development rate were observed. The results suggest that selection of a more sensitive C. elegans mutant strain could be used as a suitable animal model for conducting DON toxicity assays.
21749504	Soil salinity is an increasing menace that affects agriculture across the globe. Plant adaptation to high salt concentrations involves integrated functions, including control of Na+ uptake, translocation and compartmentalization. Na+ transporters belonging to the HKT family have been shown to be involved in tolerance to mild salt stress in glycophytes such as Arabidopsis, wheat and rice by contributing to Na+ exclusion from aerial tissues. Here, we have analysed the role of the HKT transporter HKT2;1, which is permeable to K+ and Na+, in barley, a relatively salt-tolerant crop that displays a salt-including behaviour. In Xenopus oocytes, HvHKT2;1 co-transports Na+ and K+ over a large range of concentrations, displaying low affinity for Na+, variable affinity for K+ depending on external Na+ concentration, and inhibition by K+ (K(i) approximately 5 mm). HvHKT2;1 is predominantly expressed in the root cortex. Transcript levels are up-regulated in both roots and shoots by low K+ growth conditions, and in shoots by high Na+ growth conditions. Over-expression of HvHKT2;1 led to enhanced Na+ uptake, higher Na+ concentrations in the xylem sap, and enhanced translocation of Na+ to leaves when plants were grown in the presence of 50 or 100 mm NaCl. Interestingly, these responses were correlated with increased barley salt tolerance. This suggests that one of the factors that limits barley salt tolerance is the capacity to translocate Na+ to the shoot rather than accumulation or compartmentalization of this cation in leaf tissues. Thus, over-expression of HvHKT2;1 leads to increased salt tolerance by reinforcing the salt-including behaviour of barley.
21750564	Multiple micronutrient supplementation with Sprinkles powder and crushable Foodlets tablets may be effective means of controlling micronutrient deficiencies in infants. Their efficacy has not been tested in countries like Iran where wheat as the staple food may affect nutrient bioavailability. This study aimed to compare the efficacy of Sprinkles, Foodlets and the current supplement (Drops) for improving micronutrient status and growth among Iranian infants. Infants of 6-18 months of age, living in an urban district of Iran were randomised to receive daily Sprinkles (n=120), Foodlets (n=121) or Drops (n=121) for 4 months. Haemoglobin (Hb), serum ferritin, serum retinol, serum zinc, 25(OH) D concentration and anthropometry were assessed at baseline and at 4 months. Iron status improved with all treatments. Drops showed significantly greater changes in Hb and serum ferritin, though changes in anaemia prevalence were not different across groups. Infants having Foodlets and Sprinkles had significantly greater reductions in proportion of children with zinc deficiency compared with Drops. No significant differences in treatment effects were observed for mean serum 25(OH) D and retinol, or for growth of infants across groups. The study was the first efficacy trial with Sprinkles and Foodlets in the Middle East where wheat or rice is the principal complementary foods. Differences across treatment groups were largely consistent with supplement micronutrient composition for iron and zinc, with no benefit in this population for serum retinol, 25(OH) D, growth or anthropometric status. The trial identified trade-offs in combining multiple micronutrients in a single delivery mechanism.
21750695	Climate change and catastrophic events have contributed to rice shortages in several regions due to decreased water availability and soil salinization. Although not adapted to salt or drought stress, two commercial rice varieties achieved tolerance to these stresses by colonizing them with Class 2 fungal endophytes isolated from plants growing across moisture and salinity gradients.Plant growth and development, water usage, ROS sensitivity and osmolytes were measured with and without stress under controlled conditions.The endophytes conferred salt, drought and cold tolerance to growth chamber and greenhouse grown plants. Endophytes reduced water consumption by 20-30% and increased growth rate, reproductive yield, and biomass of greenhouse grown plants. In the absence of stress, there was no apparent cost of the endophytes to plants, however, endophyte colonization decreased from 100% at planting to 65% compared to greenhouse plants grown under continual stress (maintained 100% colonization).These findings indicate that rice plants can exhibit enhanced stress tolerance via symbiosis with Class 2 endophytes, and suggest that symbiotic technology may be useful in mitigating impacts of climate change on other crops and expanding agricultural production onto marginal lands.
21751161	Among 120 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers, 23 polymorphic markers were used to identify the segregation ratio in 320 individuals of an F(2) rice population derived from Pongsu Seribu 2, a resistant variety, and Mahsuri, a susceptible rice cultivar. For phenotypic study, the most virulent blast (Magnaporthe oryzae) pathotype, P7.2, was used in screening of F(2) population in order to understand the inheritance of blast resistance as well as linkage with SSR markers. Only 11 markers showed a good fit to the expected segregation ratio (1:2:1) for the single gene model (d.f. = 1.0, P < 0.05) in chi-square (χ(2)) analyses. In the phenotypic data analysis, the F(2) population segregated in a 3:1 (R:S) ratio for resistant and susceptible plants, respectively. Therefore, resistance to blast pathotype P7.2 in Pongsu Seribu 2 is most likely controlled by a single nuclear gene. The plants from F(2) lines that showed resistance to blast pathotype P7.2 were linked to six alleles of SSR markers, RM168 (116 bp), RM8225 (221 bp), RM1233 (175 bp), RM6836 (240 bp), RM5961 (129 bp), and RM413 (79 bp). These diagnostic markers could be used in marker assisted selection programs to develop a durable blast resistant variety.
21751869	Introns are noncoding sequences in a gene that are transcribed to precursor mRNA but spliced out during mRNA maturation and are abundant in eukaryotic genomes. The availability of codominant molecular markers and saturated genetic linkage maps have been limited in foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.). Here, we describe the development of 98 novel intron length polymorphic (ILP) markers in foxtail millet using sequence information of the model plant rice. A total of 575 nonredundant expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences were obtained, of which 327 and 248 unique sequences were from dehydration- and salinity-stressed suppression subtractive hybridization libraries, respectively. The BLAST analysis of 98 EST sequences suggests a nearly defined function for about 64% of them, and they were grouped into 11 different functional categories. All 98 ILP primer pairs showed a high level of cross-species amplification in two millets and two nonmillets species ranging from 90% to 100%, with a mean of ∼97%. The mean observed heterozygosity and Nei's average gene diversity 0.016 and 0.171, respectively, established the efficiency of the ILP markers for distinguishing the foxtail millet accessions. Based on 26 ILP markers, a reasonable dendrogram of 45 foxtail millet accessions was constructed, demonstrating the utility of ILP markers in germplasm characterizations and genomic relationships in millets and nonmillets species.
21752031	A critical component of photosynthetic capacity is the conductance of CO(2) from intercellular airspaces to the sites of CO(2) fixation in the stroma of chloroplasts, termed mesophyll conductance (g(m)). Leaf anatomy has been identified as an important determinant of g(m). There are few studies of the temperature response of g(m) and none has examined the implications of leaf anatomy. Hence, we compared a cultivar of Oryza sativa with two wild Oryza relatives endemic to the hot northern savannah of Australia, namely Oryza meridionalis and Oryza australiensis. All three species had similar leaf anatomical properties, except that the wild relatives had significantly thicker mesophyll cell walls than O. sativa. Thicker mesophyll cell walls in the wild rice species are likely to have contributed to the reduction in g(m) , which was associated with a greater drawdown of CO(2) into chloroplasts (C(i) -C(c)) compared with O. sativa. Mesophyll conductance increased at higher temperatures, whereas the rate of CO(2) assimilation was relatively stable between 20 and 40 °C. Consequently, C(i) -C(c) decreased for all three species as temperature increased.
21752800	Human genomic variability occurs at different scales, from single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to large DNA segments. Copy number variations (CNVs) represent a significant part of our genetic heterogeneity and have also been associated with many diseases and disorders. Short, localized CNVs, which may play an important role in human disease, may be undetectable in noisy genomic data. Therefore, robust methodologies are needed for their detection. Furthermore, for meaningful identification of pathological CNVs, estimation of normal allelic aberrations is necessary. We developed a signal processing-based methodology for sequence denoising followed by pattern matching, to increase SNR in genomic data and improve CNV detection. We applied this signal-decomposition-matched filtering (SDMF) methodology to 429 normal genomic sequences, and compared detected CNVs to those in the Database of Genomic Variants. SDMF successfully detected a significant number of previously identified CNVs with frequencies of occurrence ≥10%, as well as unreported short CNVs. Its performance was also compared to circular binary segmentation (CBS). through simulations. SDMF had a significantly lower false detection rate and was significantly faster than CBS, an important advantage for handling large datasets generated with high-resolution arrays. By focusing on improving SNR (instead of the robustness of the detection algorithm), SDMF is a very promising methodology for identifying CNVs at all genomic spatial scales. The data are available at http://tcga-data.nci.nih.gov/tcga/ The software and list of analyzed sequence IDs are available at http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/~betensky/ A Matlab code for Empirical Mode Decomposition may be found at: http://www.clear.rice.edu/elec301/Projects02/empiricalMode/code.html caterina@mit.edu.
21753115	Plant height is a decisive factor in plant architecture. Rice (Oryza sativa) plants have the potential for rapid internodal elongation, which determines plant height. A large body of physiological research has shown that ethylene and gibberellin are involved in this process. The APETALA2 (AP2)/Ethylene-Responsive Element Binding Factor (ERF) family of transcriptional factors is only present in the plant kingdom. This family has various developmental and physiological functions. A rice AP2/ERF gene, OsEATB (for ERF protein associated with tillering and panicle branching) was cloned from indica rice variety 9311. Bioinformatic analysis suggested that this ERF has a potential new function. Ectopic expression of OsEATB showed that the cross talk between ethylene and gibberellin, which is mediated by OsEATB, might underlie differences in rice internode elongation. Analyses of gene expression demonstrated that OsEATB restricts ethylene-induced enhancement of gibberellin responsiveness during the internode elongation process by down-regulating the gibberellin biosynthetic gene, ent-kaurene synthase A. Plant height is negatively correlated with tiller number, and higher yields are typically obtained from dwarf crops. OsEATB reduces rice plant height and panicle length at maturity, promoting the branching potential of both tillers and spikelets. These are useful traits for breeding high-yielding crops.
21753117	PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER TRAFFIC FACILITATOR1 (PHF1) is known to regulate the plasma membrane localization of PHT1;1, a high-affinity inorganic phosphate (Pi) transporter in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). OsPHF1, a rice (Oryza sativa) gene homologous to AtPHF1, was isolated and found to regulate the localization of both low- and high-affinity Pi transporters to the plasma membrane. Three OsPHF1 allelic mutants carrying one-point mutations at the fifth WD-repeat motif and two at the transmembrane helix, respectively, showed arsenate resistance and severely reduced Pi accumulation. The data indicate that mutation of OsPHF1 results in the endoplasmic reticulum retention of the low-affinity Pi transporter OsPT2 and high-affinity Pi transporter OsPT8. Mutation of OsPHF1 also reduced Pi accumulation in plants exhibiting excessive shoot Pi accumulation due to the overexpression of OsPHR2. However, the transcript level of OsPHF1 itself is not controlled by OsPHR2. Overexpression of OsPHF1 increased Pi accumulation in both roots and shoots in a solution culture with Pi-supplied condition. These results indicate that the role of OsPHF1 is unique in the localization of both low- and high-affinity Pi transporters on the plasma membrane in rice and determines Pi uptake and translocation in rice. The similar function of PHF1 required to facilitate PHT1 transit through the endoplasmic reticulum between Arabidopsis and rice provides an example of expectations from what one would deduce from sequence comparisons to extend knowledge from Arabidopsis to crops.
21753852	Increasing concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO(2)) can affect biotic and abiotic conditions in soil, such as microbial activity and water content. In turn, these changes might be expected to alter the production and consumption of the important greenhouse gases nitrous oxide (N(2)O) and methane (CH(4)) (refs 2, 3). However, studies on fluxes of N(2)O and CH(4) from soil under increased atmospheric CO(2) have not been quantitatively synthesized. Here we show, using meta-analysis, that increased CO(2) (ranging from 463 to 780 parts per million by volume) stimulates both N(2)O emissions from upland soils and CH(4) emissions from rice paddies and natural wetlands. Because enhanced greenhouse-gas emissions add to the radiative forcing of terrestrial ecosystems, these emissions are expected to negate at least 16.6 per cent of the climate change mitigation potential previously predicted from an increase in the terrestrial carbon sink under increased atmospheric CO(2) concentrations. Our results therefore suggest that the capacity of land ecosystems to slow climate warming has been overestimated.
2175467	Tropical ataxic neuropathy (TAN) is reported for the first time from Liberia. It occurred in 2 women, within the child-bearing age from the same family in Sinoe County, Liberia. The family's diet consisted of rice and cassava derivatives. The diagnosis of this condition was made on clinical grounds. The patients had the classical features of this syndrome: bilateral primary optic atrophy, bilateral perceptive deafness, myelopathy and peripheral neuropathy. In Nigeria, chronic cyanide intoxication from cassava derivatives is the etiologic factor. In Liberia the cause is unknown but considering the similarities between the cases reported here and those reported from Nigeria, the etiologic factor operating in both countries may be the same.
21755406	Root-feeding insects are important drivers in ecosystems, and links between aboveground oviposition preference and belowground larval performance have been suggested. The root-colonizing arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) play a central role in plant nutrition and are known to change host quality for root-feeding insects. However, it is not known if and how AMF affect the aboveground oviposition of insects whose offspring feed on roots. According to the preference-performance hypothesis, insect herbivores oviposit on plants that will maximize offspring performance. In a greenhouse experiment with rice (Oryza sativa), we investigated the effects of AMF (Glomus intraradices) on aboveground oviposition of rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus), the larvae of which feed belowground on the roots. Oviposition (i.e., the numbers of eggs laid by weevil females in leaf sheaths) was enhanced when the plants were colonized by AMF. However, the leaf area consumed by adult weevils was not affected. Although AMF reduced plant biomass, it increased nitrogen (N) and phosphorus concentrations in leaves and N in roots. The results suggest that rice water weevil females are able to discriminate plants for oviposition depending on their mycorrhizal status. The discrimination is probably related to AMF-mediated changes in plant quality, i.e., the females choose to oviposit more on plants with higher nutrient concentrations to potentially optimize offspring performance. AMF-mediated change in plant host choice for chewing insect oviposition is a novel aspect of below- and aboveground interactions.
21756356	TILLING (Targeting induced local lesions IN genomes) is an efficient reverse genetics approach for detecting induced mutations in pools of individuals. Combined with the high-throughput of next-generation sequencing technologies, and the resolving power of overlapping pool design, TILLING provides an efficient and economical platform for functional genomics across thousands of organisms. We propose a probabilistic method for calling TILLING-induced mutations, and their carriers, from high throughput sequencing data of overlapping population pools, where each individual occurs in two pools. We assign a probability score to each sequence position by applying Bayes' Theorem to a simplified binomial model of sequencing error and expected mutations, taking into account the coverage level. We test the performance of our method on variable quality, high-throughput sequences from wheat and rice mutagenized populations. We show that our method effectively discovers mutations in large populations with sensitivity of 92.5% and specificity of 99.8%. It also outperforms existing SNP detection methods in detecting real mutations, especially at higher levels of coverage variability across sequenced pools, and in lower quality short reads sequence data. The implementation of our method is available from: http://www.cs.ucdavis.edu/filkov/CAMBa/.
21756975	The C2 domain is a Ca(2+)/phospholipid-binding motif found in many proteins involved in signal transduction or membrane trafficking. OsERG3 is a homolog of OsERG1, a gene encoding a small C2-domain protein in rice. OsERG3 Ca(2+)-binding and phospholipid-binding assays were carried out using (3)H-labeled phospholipid liposomes and a (45)Ca(2+) overlay assay, respectively. Cytosolic expression of OsERG3 was investigated by Western blot analysis and the OsERG3::smGFP transient expression assay. OsERG3 transcript levels were greatly enhanced by treatment with a fungal elicitor and Ca(2+)-ionophore. OsERG3 protein proved unable to interact with phospholipids regardless of the presence or absence of Ca(2+) ions. Nonetheless, OsERG3 displayed calcium-binding activity in an in vitro(45)Ca(2+)-binding assay, a property not observed with OsERG1. The cytosolic location of OsERG3 was not altered by the presence of fungal elicitor or Ca(2+)-ionophore. OsERG3 encodes a small C2-domain protein consisting of a single C2 domain. OsERG3 binds Ca(2+) ions but not phospholipids. OsERG3 is a cytosolic soluble protein. The OsERG3 gene may play a role in signaling pathway involving Ca(2+) ions. The data demonstrate that OsERG3 is an unusual small C2-domain protein containing a Ca(2+)-binding module but lacking phospholipid-binding properties.
21757254	S-Adenosyl-l-methionine synthetase (SAMS) [EC 2.5.1.6] catalyzes to produce SAM (S-adenosyl-l-methionine), a universal methyl group donor in biochemical reactions in cells. However, less is known how SAMS controls plant development. Here, we demonstrate that OsSAMS1, 2 and 3 are essential for histone H3K4me3 and DNA methylation to regulate gene expression related to flowering in Oryza sativa. RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic rice with downregulated transcripts of OsSAMS1, 2 and 3 showed pleiotropic phenotypes, including dwarfism, reduced fertility, delayed germination, as well as late flowering. Delayed germination was largely rescued by application of SAM in the knockdown lines. Knockdown of OsSAMS1, 2 and 3 led to distinguished late flowering and greatly reduced the expression of the flowering key genes, Early heading date 1 (Ehd1), Hd3a and RFT1 (rice FT-like genes). Moreover, the histone H3K4me3 and symmetric DNA methylation at these genes were greatly reduced. Thus, SAM deficiency suppressing DNA and H3K4me3 transmethylations at flowering key genes led to a late-flowering phenotype in rice. This information could help elucidate the mechanism of epigenetic control flowering transition.
21757255	We previously reported that native tropical zone plants showed high acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity during heat stress, and that AChE activity in endodermal cells of maize seedlings was increased by heat treatment. However, the physiological role of AChE in heat stressed plants is still unclear. Here we report (1) tissue-specific expression and subcellular localization of maize AChE, (2) elevation of AChE activity and possible post-translational modifications of this enzyme under heat stress, and (3) involvement of AChE in plant heat stress tolerance. Maize AChE was mainly expressed in coleoptile nodes and seeds. Maize AChE fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) was localized in extracellular spaces of transgenic rice plants. Therefore, in maize coleoptile nodes and seeds AChE mainly functions in the cell wall matrix. After heat treatment, enhanced maize AChE activity was observed by in vitro activity measurement and by in situ cytochemical staining; transcript and protein levels, however, were not changed. Protein gel blot analysis revealed two AChE isoforms (upper and lower); the upper-form gradually disappeared after heat treatment. Thus, maize AChE activity might be enhanced through a post-translational modification response to heat stress. Finally, we found that overexpression of maize AChE in transgenic tobacco plants enhanced heat tolerance relative to that of non-transgenic plants, suggesting AChE plays a positive role in maize heat tolerance.
2175746	Two experiments were conducted to measure effects of source and level of roughage on the flow of corn residues through the gastrointestinal tract of cattle. In Exp. 1, steers (195 kg) were fed diets of ground corn with 0, 30 or 60% of ground Coastal bermudagrass hay (Cynodon dactylon) [L.] Pers.) at intakes of 1, 1.5 or 2% of BW in a 9 x 9 Latin square. Experiment 2 consisted of two 4 x 4 Latin squares with either rice hulls (square 1) or ground Coastal bermudagrass hay (square 2) providing 0, 7.5, 15 or 30% of the total diet fed at 1.5% of BW. After a 28-d adjustment period, a portion of the corn in one meal was replaced with cracked corn stained with brilliant green. The concentrations of stained corn residues appearing in the feces subsequent to dosing were fitted to a one-compartment, age-dependent model and compartmental mean residence time (CMRT) and time delay (tau) were estimated. In Exp. 1, increasing the level of intake of the ration from 1% to 1.5 or 2.0% of BW increased (P less than .05) CMRT by 52% and reduced (P less than .05) tau by 41%. In Exp. 2, source of roughage had no effect (P = .95) on CMRT or tau. Combined results of the two experiments indicated that increasing proportion (P) of either roughage was associated with an exponential decline in CMRT of stained corn residues (CMRT = 1211 * e-.0315P) from rations consumed at 1.5 and 2.0% of BW. No consistent effect of roughage type or proportion was noted on time delay in the two experiments collectively. These results indicate that increasing the proportion of roughage in the diet exponentially reduces residence time of corn residues in the ruminoreticulum (CMRT) without affecting residence time in the postgastric segments (tau).
21757998	Potassium (K) is one of the major nutrients that is essential for plant growth and development. The majority of cellular K+ resides in the vacuole and tonoplast K+ channels of the TPK (Two Pore K) family are main players in cellular K+ homeostasis. All TPK channels were previously reported to be expressed in the tonoplast of the large central lytic vacuole (LV) except for one isoform in Arabidopsis that resides in the plasma membrane. However, plant cells often contain more than one type of vacuole that coexist in the same cell. We recently showed that two TPK isoforms (OsTPKa and OsTPKb) from Oryza sativa localise to different vacuoles with OsTPKa predominantly found in the LV tonoplast and OsTPKb primarily in smaller compartments that resemble small vacuoles (SVs). Our study further revealed that it is the C-terminal domain that determines differential targeting of OsTPKa and OsTPKb. Three C-terminal amino acids were particularly relevant for targeting TPKs to their respective endomembranes. In this addendum we further evaluate how the different localisation of TPKa and TPKb impact on their physiological role and how TPKs provide a potential tool to study the physiology of different types of vacuole.
21758010	The chemical cross talk between rice and barnyardgrass which is one of the most noxious weeds in rice cultivation was investigated. Allelopathic activity of rice was increased by the presence of barnyardgrass seedlings or barnyardgrass root exudates. Rice allelochemical, momilactone B, concentration in rice seedlings and momilactone B secretion level from rice were also increased by the presence of barnyardgrass seedlings or barnyardgrass root exudates. As momilactone B possesses strong growth inhibitory activity and acts as an allelochemical, barnyardgrass-induced rice allelopathy may be due to the increased momilactone B secretion. These results suggest that rice may response to the presence of neighboring barnyardgrass by sensing the chemical components in barnyardgrass root exudates and increase allelopathic activity by elevated production and secretion levels of momilactone B. Thus, rice allelopathy may be one of the inducible defense mechanisms by chemical-mediated plant interaction between rice and barnyardgrass and the induced-allelopathy may provide a competitive advantage for rice through suppression of the growth of barnyardgrass.
21760901	We previously discovered a lead compound for strigolactone (SL) biosynthesis inhibitors, TIS13 (2,2-dimethyl-7-phenoxy-4-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)heptan-3-ol). Here, we carried out a structure-activity relationship study of TIS13 to discover more potent and specific SL biosynthesis inhibitor because TIS13 has a severe side effect at high concentrations, including retardation of the growth of rice seedlings. TIS108, a new TIS13 derivative, was found to be a more specific SL biosynthesis inhibitor than TIS13. Treatment of rice seedlings with TIS108 reduced SL levels in both roots and root exudates in a concentration-dependent manner and did not reduce plant height. In addition, root exudates of TIS108-treated rice seedlings stimulated Striga germination less than those of control plants. These results suggest that TIS108 has a potential to be applied in the control of root parasitic weeds germination.
21760907	Hybrids between different inbred varieties display novel patterns of gene expression resulted from parental variation in allelic nucleotide sequences. To study the function of chromatin regulators in hybrid gene expression, the histone deacetylase gene OsHDT1 whose expression displayed a circadian rhythm was over-expressed or inactivated by RNAi in an elite rice parent. Increased OsHDT1 expression did not affect plant growth in the parent but led to early flowering in the hybrid. Nonadditive up-regulation of key flowering time genes was found to be related to flowering time of the hybrid. Over-expression of OsHDT1 repressed the nonadditive expression of the key flowering repressors in the hybrid (i.e. OsGI and Hd1) inducing early flowering. Analysis of histone acetylation suggested that OsHDT1 over-expression might promote deacetylation on OsGI and Hd1 chromatin during the peak expression phase. High throughput differential gene expression analysis revealed that altered OsHDT1 levels affected nonadditive expression of many genes in the hybrid. These data demonstrate that nonadditive gene expression was involved in flowering time control in the hybrid rice and that OsHDT1 level was important for nonadditive or differential expression of many genes including the flowering time genes, suggesting that OsHDT1 may be involved in epigenetic control of parental genome interaction for differential gene expression.
21762354	Wild crop relatives represent a source of novel alleles for crop genetic improvement. Screening biodiversity for useful or diverse gene homologues has often been based upon the amplification of targeted genes using available sequence information to design primers that amplify the target gene region across species. The crucial requirement of this approach is the presence of sequences with sufficient conservation across species to allow for the design of universal primers. This approach is often not successful with diverse organisms or highly variable genes. Massively parallel sequencing (MPS) can quickly produce large amounts of sequence data and provides a viable option for characterizing homologues of known genes in poorly described genomes. MPS of genomic DNA was used to obtain species-specific sequence information for 18 rice genes related to domestication characteristics in a wild relative of rice, Microlaena stipoides. Species-specific primers were available for 16 genes compared with 12 genes using the universal primer method. The use of species-specific primers had the potential to cover 92% of the sequence of these genes, while traditional universal primers could only be designed to cover 80%. A total of 24 species-specific primer pairs were used to amplify gene homologues, and 11 primer pairs were successful in capturing six gene homologues. The 23 million, 36-base pair (bp) paired end reads, equated to an average of 2X genome coverage, facilitated the successful amplification and sequencing of six target gene homologues, illustrating an important approach to the discovery of useful genes in wild crop relatives.
21762530	Allergic proctocolitis (APC) in exclusively breast-fed infants is caused by food proteins, deriving from maternal diet, transferred through lactation. In most cases a maternal cow milk-free diet leads to a prompt resolution of rectal bleeding, while in some patients a multiple food allergy can occur. The aim of this study was to assess whether the atopy patch test (APT) could be helpful to identify this subgroup of patients requiring to discontinue breast-feeding due to polisensitization. Additionally, we assessed the efficacy of an amino acid-based formula (AAF) when multiple food allergy is suspected. amino acid-based formula We have prospectively enrolled 14 exclusively breast-fed infants with APC refractory to maternal allergen avoidance. The diagnosis was confirmed by endoscopy with biopsies. Skin prick tests and serum specific IgE for common foods, together with APTs for common foods plus breast milk, were performed. After a 1 month therapy of an AAF all patients underwent a follow-up rectosigmoidoscopy. Prick tests and serum specific IgE were negative. APTs were positive in 100% infants, with a multiple positivity in 50%. Sensitization was found for breast milk in 100%, cow's milk (50%), soy (28%), egg (21%), rice (14%), wheat (7%). Follow-up rectosigmoidoscopy confirmed the remission of APC in all infants. These data suggest that APT might become a useful tool to identify subgroups of infants with multiple gastrointestinal food allergy involving a delayed immunogenic mechanism, with the aim to avoid unnecessary maternal dietary restrictions before discontinuing breast-feeding.
21763534	The dual positional maize lipoxygenase-1 was introduced into rice and T2 transgenic plants were produced. Cellular location of maize lipoxygenase-1 in transgenic rice and effects of calcium ion on membrane association in vitro were analyzed. Localization study by confocal microscopic analysis indicated that the maize lipoxygenase-1 was localized in cytoplasm. Sucrose-density fractionation experiment and in vitro protein transport to chloroplast showed that the maize lipoxygenase-1 can be associated with chloroplast. Secondary structure alignment revealed putative calcium binding sites in the PLAT domain of maize lipoxygenase-1 and the association of the maize lipoxygenase-1 with membranes was mediated by calcium ion in vitro. Our results provide evidences for calcium-mediated translocation of dual positional LOX without chloroplast targeting sequence from cytoplasm to chloroplast in plants for the first time.
21763536	A simple and efficient protocol for the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of an agronomically useful abiotic sensitive popular indica rice cv. ADT 43 has been developed. Initiation of calli were best achieved from the leaf bases of 4 days old rice seedlings on LS medium supplemented with 2.5mg/L 2,4-D and 1.0mg/L thiamine-HCl. Rice calli immersed in Agrobacterium suspension (strain EHA 105, OD(600)=0.8) were co-cultured on LS30-AsPC medium for 2 days at 25±2°C in the dark. Based on GUS expression analysis, 10min co-cultivation time with 100μM acetosyringone was found optimum for the delivery of gus gene. Calli were proved to be very sensitive to Agrobacterium infection and we found that the level of necrotic response can be minimized after co-cultivation with 30% LS, 10g/L PVP, 10% coconut water and 250mg/L timentin which improved the final transformation efficiency to 9.33%. Molecular and genetic analysis of transgenic plants reveals the integration, expression and inheritance of transgene in the progeny (T(1)) of these plants. The copy number of transgenes has been found to vary from 1 to 2 in transgenic plants (T(0) and T(1)).
21763538	Improvements in plant productivity (biomass) and yield have centered on increasing the efficiency of leaf CO(2) fixation and utilization of products by non-photosynthetic sink organs. We had previously demonstrated a correlation between photosynthetic capacity, plant growth, and the extent of leaf starch synthesis utilizing starch-deficient mutants. This finding suggested that leaf starch is used as a transient photosynthetic sink to recycle inorganic phosphate and, in turn, maximize photosynthesis. To test this hypothesis, Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa L.) lines were generated with enhanced capacity to make leaf starch with minimal impact on carbon partitioning to sucrose. The Arabidopsis engineered plants exhibited enhanced photosynthetic capacity; this translated into increased growth and biomass. These enhanced phenotypes were displayed by similarly engineered rice lines. Manipulation of leaf starch is a viable alternative strategy to increase photosynthesis and, in turn, the growth and yields of crop and bioenergy plants.
21763541	Wild species of rice with many valuable agronomic traits are an important genetic resource for improving cultivated rice by wide hybridization. Genome- or chromosome-specific markers are useful for monitoring genome introgression and for identifying genome components. From 47 random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs) of nine Oryza species, three bands (Ogla225, Opun225, and Opun246) were found to be genome specific with distinct sizes. Their specificities were further characterized by Southern hybridization, sequence analysis, and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). Ogla225 is specifically amplified from the AA genome but homologous sequences were conserved among Oryza species. Opun225 occurs at a low copy number although is specifically amplified from Oryza punctata. There are estimated 2000-3300 repeats of Opun246 in each haploid genome of Oryza species with the BB or BBCC genome. Clusters of Opun246 repeats were detected at heterochromatic regions on almost all chromosomes of the BB genomes by FISH. Opun246 may be a useful marker for monitoring the introgression of BB genome or for identifying the conserved components of BB genome in genetic resource. The results from this study and our previous study both indicate that numerous unique repeats play role in the differentiation of the BB genome from other Oryza genomes.
21763543	The WRKY proteins are a major family of plant transcription factors implicated in the regulation of plant defense mechanisms against pathogens. OsWRKY6 was isolated based on expression profiling data carried out with samples infected by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). OsWRKY6 encodes a DNA binding protein that contains one WRKY domain, a nuclear localization signal and C(2)H(2)-type zinc finger motif. OsWRKY6 is a member of the group II family of WRKY proteins. Based on the result of yeast one hybrid assay this OsWRKY6 protein binds to the typical W box ((T)TGACC/T). OsWRKY6 functions as a transcriptional activator in yeast. OsWRKY6 enhanced the expression of the reporter gene downstream of OsPR1 promoter, indicating that OsWRKY6 is a transcriptional activator in rice as well. Heterologous expression of OsWRKY6 enhanced disease resistance to pathogen. Defense-related genes were constitutively expressed in Arabidopsis transgenic lines overexpressing OsWRKY6. All together, OsWRKY6 functions as a positive transcriptional regulator of the plant defense response.
21764102	Rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) has been cultivated for biodiesel production worldwide. Winter rapeseed is commonly grown in the southern part of Korea under a rice-rapeseed double cropping system. In this study, a greenhouse pot experiment was conducted to assess the effects of rapeseed residue applied as a green manure alone or in combinations with mineral N fertilizer on Cd and Pb speciation in the contaminated paddy soil and their availability to rice plant (Oryza sativa L.). The changes in soil chemical and biological properties in response to the addition of rapeseed residue were also evaluated. Specifically, the following four treatments were evaluated: 100% mineral N fertilizer (N100) as a control, 70% mineral N fertilizer+rapeseed residue (N70+R), 30% mineral N fertilizer+rapeseed residue (N30+R) and rapeseed residue alone (R). The electrical conductivity and exchangeable cations of the rice paddy soil subjected to the R treatment or in combinations with mineral N fertilizer treatment, N70+R and N30+R, were higher than those in soils subjected to the N100 treatment. However, the soil pH value with the R treatment (pH 6.3) was lower than that with N100 treatment (pH 6.9). Use of rapeseed residue as a green manure led to an increase in soil organic matter (SOM) and enhanced the microbial populations in the soil. Sequential extraction also revealed that the addition of rapeseed residue decreased the easily accessible fraction of Cd by 5-14% and Pb by 30-39% through the transformation into less accessible fractions, thereby reducing metal availability to the rice plant. Overall, the incorporation of rapeseed residue into the metal contaminated rice paddy soils may sustain SOM, improve the soil chemical and biological properties, and decrease the heavy metal phytoavailability.
21764194	Toxicity threshold of arsenite on intact rice seedlings was determined and arsenite uptake characteristics were investigated using non-toxic concentrations of arsenite. The arsenite toxicity threshold was 2.4 μM arsenite which reduced growth by 10% (EC(10)). The two highest arsenite levels induced wilting of seedlings and reduced both, transpiration rate and net photosynthetic rate. Arsenic content in plant tissue increased up to 10.7 μM arsenite and then declined with increasing arsenite concentration in the treatment solution. The contents of Si, P, K, and of micronutrients Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn in shoot d.m. were reduced by arsenite levels ≥ 5.3 μM. In the non-toxic range, arsenite uptake rate was linearly related to arsenite concentration. High arsenite levels reduced growth without being taken up which might be due to increasing binding of arsenite to proteins at the outer side of the plasmalemma.
21764282	Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a chronic vascular disease characterized by medial degradation and inflammation. No medical approaches have been validated for treating AAA, and therapeutic options are limited to regular surveillance leading to surgical intervention. This study aimed to investigate whether administration of Chinese red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus; RYR) suppressed angiotensin II (AngII)-induced AAA and atherosclerosis. Apolipoprotein E-deficient male mice fed a normal diet were administered either RYR extract (200 mg/kg/day) or vehicle by gavage for 1 week before initiating AngII infusion (1000 ng/kg/min) via subcutaneous osmotic pumps for 28 days. Red yeast rice extract administration significantly suppressed AngII-induced expansion of suprarenal diameter and area (P<.05). Furthermore, RYR extract significantly reduced atherosclerotic lesion areas in both the intima of aortic arches and cross sections of aortic roots (P<.05). These effects were associated with reductions of serum total cholesterol, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 2 and increases of serum macrophage migration inhibitory factor, but no changes in serum interleukin (IL) 1α, IL-6, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, MMP-9 and expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in aortic walls. This study demonstrated that RYR extract administration suppressed AngII-induced AAA and atherosclerosis associated with regulating inflammation responses independent of lipid-lowering effects. Red yeast rice may have preventive potential for patients with AAA.
21764950	Spore-forming Bacillus strains that produce extracellular poly-γ-glutamic acid were screened for their application to natto (fermented soybean food) fermentation. Among the 424 strains, including Bacillus subtilis and B. amyloliquefaciens, which we isolated from rice straw, 59 were capable of fermenting natto. Biotin auxotrophism was tightly linked to natto fermentation. A multilocus nucleotide sequence of six genes (rpoB, purH, gyrA, groEL, polC, and 16S rRNA) was used for phylogenetic analysis, and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was also conducted on the natto-fermenting strains. The ability to ferment natto was inferred from the two principal components of the AFLP banding pattern, and natto-fermenting strains formed a tight cluster within the B. subtilis subsp. subtilis group.
21764972	In many areas of China, tidal wetlands have been converted into agricultural land for rice cultivation. However, the consequences of land use changes for soil microbial communities are poorly understood. Therefore, we investigated bacterial and archaeal communities involved in inorganic nitrogen turnover (nitrogen fixation, nitrification, and denitrification) based on abundances and relative species richness of the corresponding functional genes along a soil chronosequence ranging between 50 and 2,000 years of paddy soil management compared to findings for a tidal wetland. Changes in abundance and diversity of the functional groups could be observed, reflecting the different chemical and physical properties of the soils, which changed in terms of soil development. The tidal wetland was characterized by a low microbial biomass and relatively high abundances of ammonia-oxidizing microbes. Conversion of the tidal wetlands into paddy soils was followed by a significant increase in microbial biomass. Fifty years of paddy management resulted in a higher abundance of nitrogen-fixing microbes than was found in the tidal wetland, whereas dominant genes of nitrification and denitrification in the paddy soils showed no differences. With ongoing rice cultivation, copy numbers of archaeal ammonia oxidizers did not change, while that of their bacterial counterparts declined. The nirK gene, coding for nitrite reductase, increased with rice cultivation time and dominated its functionally redundant counterpart, nirS, at all sites under investigation. Relative species richness showed significant differences between all soils with the exception of the archaeal ammonia oxidizers in the paddy soils cultivated for 100 and 300 years. In general, changes in diversity patterns were more pronounced than those in functional gene abundances.
21765176	CRYPTOCHROMES (CRYs) are photolyase-like ultraviolet-A/blue light photoreceptors that mediate various light responses in plants. The signaling mechanism of Arabidopsis CRYs (CRY1 and CRY2) involves direct CRY-COP1 interaction. Here, we report that CRY1(G380R), which carries a Gly-to-Arg substitution of the highly conserved G380 in the photolyase-related (PHR) domain of Arabidopsis CRY1, shows constitutive CRY1 photoreceptor activity in Arabidopsis. Transgenic plants overexpressing CRY1(G380R) display a constitutively photomorphogenic (COP) phenotype in darkness, as well as a dramatic early flowering phenotype under short-day light conditions (SD). We further demonstrate that CRY1(G380R) expression driven by the native CRY1 promoter also results in a COP phenotype in darkness. Moreover, overexpression of either the Arabidopsis homolog CRY2(G377R) or the rice ortholog OsCRY1b(G388R) of CRY1(G380R) in Arabidopsis results in a COP phenotype in darkness. Cellular localization studies indicate that CRY1(G380R) co-localizes with COP1 in the same nuclear bodies (NBs) in vivo and inhibits the nuclear accumulation of COP1 in darkness. These results suggest that the conserved G380 may play a critical role in regulating the photoreceptor activity of plant CRYs and that CRY1(G380R) might constitutively phenocopy the photo-activated CRY1 in darkness and thus constitutively mediate CRY1 signaling.
21765177	The receptor-like kinases (RLKs) play critical roles in plant development and response to stress stimuli. By perceiving or sensing the extracellular signals, RLK activates the downstream signaling pathway through phosphorylating the specific targets. Up to now, only a few RLKs have been functionally identified, which are even fewer in rice (Oryza sativa L.). We here report the systemic analysis of the expression profiles of rice RLK coding genes in different tissues, with the emphasis on seed development and in response to both abiotic stress and plant hormones. The results showed that most rice RLK genes are expressed in two or more tissues, of which the RLCK-RLKs have a higher, while WAK- and SD-RLKs have a lower, expression level in the vegetative tissues than other subfamily members. Interestingly, the constitutively highly expressed RLKs in rice and Arabidopsis are conserved, which is consistent with the previous hypothesis that RLKs existed before the differentiation of monocotyledon and dicotyledon plants. Nearly one-third of the detected rice RLKs are expressed during seed development, and the RLCK-RLK members possess a higher percentage during the endosperm development, suggesting a novel function of RLCK-RLK members in endosperm development. Further analysis revealed that many RLK genes expressed during seed development are also regulated by abiotic stresses (cold, salt, or drought) or hormones, indicating that RLKs may take part in the stress-related signaling pathways such as dehydration of endosperm. These results provide informative insights into the RLK studies and will be helpful to reveal the global regulatory network controlling rice seed development.
21765600	Geranylgeranoic acid, a 20-carbon polyprenoic acid (all-trans 3,7,11,15-tetramethyl-2,4,6,10,14-hexadecatetraenoic acid) and its derivatives were previously developed as synthetic "acyclic retinoids" for cancer chemoprevention. Recently, we demonstrated the natural occurrence of geranylgeranoic acid in various medicinal herbs (Shidoji and Ogawa, 2004). In this present study, we present several lines of evidence to demonstrate that geranylgeranyl diphosphate taken in foods could be metabolized to GGA through geranylgeraniol and geranylgeranyl aldehyde via the following steps: 1) The conversion from geranylgeranyl diphosphate to geranylgeraniol was demonstrated to occur by the action of bovine intestinal alkaline phosphatase, with a K(m) of 46.1 µM. 2) Geranylgeraniol oxidase-mediated conversion of geranylgeraniol to geranylgeranyl aldehyde was revealed in rat liver homogenates, which activity was mainly localized in the mitochondrial fraction. The mitochondrial enzyme showed a K(m) of 92.9 µM. 3) The conversion of geranylgeranyl aldehyde to geranylgeranoic acid by geranylgeranyl aldehyde dehydrogenase in rat liver homogenates was absolutely dependent on exogenously added NAD(+) or NADP(+). The K(m) of the mitochondrial geranylgeranyl aldehyde dehydrogenase was 27.5 µM for geranylgeranyl aldehyde. Taken together, our data suggest that cancer preventive geranylgeranoic acid could be a physiological metabolite from commonly consumed foods.
21765604	Kurozu moromimatsu is the sediment of Kurozu, a jar-fermented Japanese black vinegar produced from unpolished rice. Here, we examined the protective effects of Kurozu moromimatsu in a diethylnitrosamine-induced model of hepatocellular carcinoma. Thirty-two F344 rats were divided into two groups; the control group received basal CE-2 diet, and the Kurozu moromimatsu group received CE-2 diet containing Kurozu moromimatsu. At 16 weeks after initial intraperitoneal administration of diethylnitrosamine (150 mg/kg/week), serum was collected from half the rats. These rats were sacrificed and the liver was resected for histological examination of hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections and assay of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and matrix metalloproteinase-9 levels in tumor tissues. Glutathione S-transferase placental form-positive foci were evaluated by immunostaining for glutathione S-transferase placental form. The remaining rats were maintained for evaluation of survival. There were no significant differences of serum transaminases, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and also no marked hepatic histological differences, between the two groups. However, the size of hepatocellular carcinomas was greatly decreased and the levels of activated matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -9 were significantly reduced in the Kurozu moromimatsu group. Further, survival was significantly prolonged in the Kurozu moromimatsu group compared with the control. These results indicate that Kurozu moromimatsu inhibited the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma.
21767343	BURP domain-containing proteins have a conserved structure and are found extensively in plants. The functions of the proteins in this family are diverse, but remain unknown in Populus trichocarpa. In the present study, a complete genome of P. trichocarpa was analyzed bioinformatically. A total of 18 BURP family genes, named PtBURPs, were identified and characterized according to their physical positions on the P. trichocarpa chromosomes. A phylogenetic tree was generated from alignments of PtBURP protein sequences, while phylogenetic relationships were also examined between PtBURPs and BURP family genes in other plants, including rice, soybean, maize and sorghum. BURP genes in P. trichocarpa were classified into five classes, namely PG1β-like, BNM2-like, USP-like, RD22-like and BURP V. The multiple expectation maximization for motif elicitation (MEME) and multiple protein sequence alignments of PtBURPs were also performed. Results from the transcript level analyses of 10 PtBURP genes under different stress conditions revealed the expression patterns in poplar and led to a discussion on genome duplication and evolution, expression profiles and function of PtBURP genes.
21769472	Natural antisense transcripts (NATs) are endogenous transcripts that contain reverse complementary sequences to other RNAs (usually called sense transcripts). NATs regulate the expression of sense transcripts in a wide range of species. The identification and analysis of NATs are the prerequisite to elucidate their functions. Microarray is a genome-wide method to detect gene expression. However, conventional microarrays do not contain the specific probes of NATs; thus, they cannot be utilized to detect NATs. In this article, we developed a novel method to identify potential NATs with the conventional microarrays. In this method of our study, we labeled the first strand cDNA from one sample with Cy5 and labeled the second strand cDNA from another sample with Cy3, and then hybridized these labeled samples with oligonucleotide microarray. Using this method, we identified 920 potential NATs in rice variety Nipponbare. Among these potential NATs, 88 of them were confirmed by either full-length cDNA or orientated ESTs (expressed sequence tags). This is the first time that a conventional oligonucleotide microarray was employed to identify NATs in rice.
21770376	Elevated CO(2) levels and the increase in heavy metals in soils through pollution are serious problems worldwide. Whether elevated CO(2) levels will affect plants grown in heavy-metal-polluted soil and thereby influence food quality and safety is not clear. Using a free-air CO(2) enrichment (FACE) system, we investigated the impacts of elevated atmospheric CO(2) on the concentrations of copper (Cu) or cadmium (Cd) in rice and wheat grown in soil with different concentrations of the metals in the soil. In the two-year study, elevated CO(2) levels led to lower Cu concentrations and higher Cd concentrations in shoots and grain of both rice and wheat grown in the respective contaminated soil. Elevated CO(2) levels slightly but significantly lowered the pH of the soil and led to changes in Cu and Cd fractionation in the soil. Our study indicates that elevated CO(2) alters the distribution of contaminant elements in soil and plants, thereby probably affecting food quality and safety.
21770770	Elicitors can stimulate defense responses in plants and have become a popular strategy in plant disease control. Previously, we isolated a novel protein elicitor, PemG1, from Magnaporthe grisea. In the present study, PemG1 protein expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli improved resistance of rice and Arabidopsis to bacterial infection, induced transient expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, and increased accumulation of hydrogen peroxide in rice. The effects of PemG1 on disease resistance and PR gene expression were mobilized systemically throughout the rice plant and persisted for more than 28 days. PemG1-induced accumulation of OsPR-1a in rice was prevented by the calcium channel blockers LaCl₃, BAPTA, EGTA, W7, and TFP. Arabidopsis mutants that are insensitive to jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene showed increased resistance to bacterial infection after PemG1 treatment but PemG1 did not affect resistance of mutants with an impaired salicylic acid (SA) transduction pathway. In rice, PemG1 induced overexpressions of the SA signal-related genes (OsEDS1, OsPAL1, and OsNH1) but not the JA pathway-related genes (OsLOX2 and OsAOS2). Our findings reveal that PemG1 protein can function as an activator of plant disease resistance, and the PemG1-mediated systemic acquired resistance is modulated by SA- and Ca(2+)-related signaling pathways.
21770776	Based on a 2-year field trial at two locations in Lower Saxony (Germany), 395 Fusarium isolates belonging to 13 species were collected from more than 3,000 sugar beet roots that were apparently healthy at harvest. In a comparative screen, subsamples were analyzed for Fusarium infection directly after harvest and after different storage conditions. Depending on the storage duration, a different species composition was observed. F. redolens was predominant in freshly harvested beets, while F. culmorum, F. cerealis, and F. graminearum comprised 50.0% (2006) and 84.8% (2007) of the Fusarium mycoflora of sugar beets subjected to long-term pile storage. Randomly selected isolates of all species detected were tested for pathogenicity to sugar beet, but only isolates of F. graminearum and F. sambucinum caused severe root symptoms. Overall, 34 isolates of all species detected were characterized for their mycotoxin profile in rice culture to determine potentially produced toxins for future analysis of sugar beet. A total of 26 Fusarium mycotoxins were detected by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, including trichothecenes, zearalenone, and especially high amounts of beauvericin, enniatins, and moniliformin. Further work is required to analyze the natural occurrence of these mycotoxins in sugar beet.
21771342	Copy number variations (CNVs) can create new genes, change gene dosage, reshape gene structures, and modify elements regulating gene expression. As with all types of genetic variation, CNVs may influence phenotypic variation and gene expression. CNVs are thus considered major sources of genetic variation. Little is known, however, about their contribution to genetic variation in rice. To detect CNVs, we used a set of NimbleGen whole-genome comparative genomic hybridization arrays containing 718,256 oligonucleotide probes with a median probe spacing of 500 bp. We compiled a high-resolution map of CNVs in the rice genome, showing 641 CNVs between the genomes of the rice cultivars 'Nipponbare' (from O. sativa ssp. japonica) and 'Guang-lu-ai 4' (from O. sativa ssp. indica). The CNVs identified vary in size from 1.1 kb to 180.7 kb, and encompass approximately 7.6 Mb of the rice genome. The largest regions showing copy gain and loss are of 37.4 kb on chromosome 4, and 180.7 kb on chromosome 8. In addition, 85 DNA segments were identified, including some genic sequences. Contracted genes greatly outnumbered duplicated ones. Many of the contracted genes corresponded to either the same genes or genes involved in the same biological processes; this was also the case for genes involved in disease and defense. We detected CNVs in rice by array-based comparative genomic hybridization. These CNVs contain known genes. Further discussion of CNVs is important, as they are linked to variation among rice varieties, and are likely to contribute to subspecific characteristics.
2177137	Heterologous gene expression experiments have shown that genes of Monocotyledoneae are often not transcribed in Dicotyledoneae, or produce pre-mRNA that is inefficiently or aberrantly processed. It is however not known how correctly and efficiently dicotyledon-specific gene expression signals are recognized in cells of Monocotyledoneae. Here we address this question using tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and rice (Oryza sativa) protoplasts transformed with the same hybrid gene constructs. Constructs including the nptII protein coding sequence fused to Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) promoter and polyadenylation signals were used to obtain stably transformed cell lines of tobacco and rice. In one of the constructs the nptII coding region is interrupted by a modified intron-3 sequence from the soybean phaseolin gene. Although the mean number of hybrid gene copies integrated into the rice genome was on average 5- to 10-fold higher than in tobacco, the steady-state transcript level was 3 times lower. A lower level of transcript was also observed in transient expression experiments. The amount of the mature mRNA was not influenced by the presence of the intron. The phaseolin intron was processed in rice with high efficiency and an accuracy indistinguishable from that seen in tobacco.
21771416	To undertake a study on prevalence of Deg Nala disease in eastern states of India and to reproduce the disease in buffaloes by the Fusarium spp., isolated from the affected region. During this investigation, a survey was conducted covering four states of eastern region to identify the Deg Nala cases as well as to isolate and characterize the causative agent(s). An experimental study was carried out to reproduce the disease in healthy male buffaloes (2-3 years age) by randomly dividing them into five groups (four in each group). Each individual group was fed with rice straw artificially infested with either of the two representative isolates of Fusarium oxysporum (F. oxysporum) (F01, F02) or representative reference strains of Fusarium equiseti (F. equiseti) (ITCCF-2470) and Fusarium moniliforme (F. moniliforme) (ITCCF-4821) for 30 days, whereas the control group was fed with normal rice straw only. A total of 658 Deg Nala cases were recorded and 12 Fusarium isolates were identified from the mouldy rice straw collected from these affected areas. The characterization of the isolates revealed three species viz., F. oxysporum, F. equiseti and F. moniliforme, among which F. oxysporum was predominant. The disease was artificially reproduced in three buffaloes in F01 group and one in F02 group within 20-23 days by feeding F. oxysporum infested rice straw which resembled the clinical symptoms and gross lesions of natural Deg Nala cases. The field investigation and laboratory studies, including experimental production of Deg Nala disease suggest the possible involvement of mycotoxins. However, further investigations needs to be done to understand nature of the toxic factors involved in production of the Deg Nala disease.
21771866	Calcium ions are a well-known essential component for pollen germination and tube elongation. Several calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are expressed predominantly in mature pollen grains and play a critical role in pollen. However, none of their interacting proteins or downstream substrates has been identified. Using yeast two-hybrid screening, we isolated OsCPK25/26-interacting protein 30 (OIP30), which is also predominantly expressed in pollen. OIP30 encodes a RuvB-like DNA helicase 2 (RuvBL2) that is well conserved in eukaryotic species from yeast to human. Yeast and Drosophila defective in RuvBL2 are non-viable. The interaction between OsCPK26 and OIP30 was confirmed by far-Western blot and pull-down experiments. OIP30 was phosphorylated in a calcium-dependent manner by OsCPK26 but not OsCPK2, which is highly similar to OsCPK26 in sequence and expression profile. OIP30 unwound partial duplex DNA with a 3' to 5' directionality by ATP hydrolysis. Concurrently, the ATPase activity of OIP30 depended on single-stranded DNA. OsCPK26 phosphorylated OIP30 and enhanced both its helicase and ATPase activity about 3-fold. OIP30 may be the potential downstream substrate for OsCPK25/26 in pollen. This report characterizes a RuvBL in plants and links its activities with its upstream regulator.
21771914	Physiological functions of sucrose (Suc) transporters (SUTs) localized to the tonoplast in higher plants are poorly understood. We here report the isolation and characterization of a mutation in the rice (Oryza sativa) OsSUT2 gene. Expression of OsSUT2-green fluorescent protein in rice revealed that OsSUT2 localizes to the tonoplast. Analysis of the OsSUT2 promoter::β-glucuronidase transgenic rice indicated that this gene is highly expressed in leaf mesophyll cells, emerging lateral roots, pedicels of fertilized spikelets, and cross cell layers of seed coats. Results of Suc transport assays in yeast were consistent with a H(+)-Suc symport mechanism, suggesting that OsSUT2 functions in Suc uptake from the vacuole. The ossut2 mutant exhibited a growth retardation phenotype with a significant reduction in tiller number, plant height, 1,000-grain weight, and root dry weight compared with the controls, the wild type, and complemented transgenic lines. Analysis of primary carbon metabolites revealed that ossut2 accumulated more Suc, glucose, and fructose in the leaves than the controls. Further sugar export analysis of detached leaves indicated that ossut2 had a significantly decreased sugar export ability compared with the controls. These results suggest that OsSUT2 is involved in Suc transport across the tonoplast from the vacuole lumen to the cytosol in rice, playing an essential role in sugar export from the source leaves to sink organs.
21772314	Complementary feeding is a critical developmental time for establishing variety, and appropriate feeding practices are important. These include recommendations for a maximum intake of sodium (salt), because of the potential harmful effect of excessive intake on the developing kidneys and blood pressure in later life. Sodium intakes were examined to establish, if inappropriate complementary feeding practices were contributing to high intakes. Data were collected from a cohort of 1178 8-month-old infants born in 1991/92, participating in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children, using a 3-day dietary records completed by their mothers. Sodium and energy intakes were calculated and infants were categorised into quartiles of sodium intake. Majority of infants were first introduced to solids around 3-4 months, with plain baby rice, rusks and other cereals being the first foods consumed during complementary feeding. In the whole sample, 70% consumed in excess, of 400 mg sodium per day, the maximum UK recommendation for children up to age 12 months. The mean sodium intake for the highest quartile was 1060 mg per day. Infants in this quartile were often consuming cows' milk as a main drink; eating three times the amount of bread compared with the lowest quartile and used salty flavourings such as yeast extract and gravy. Sodium intakes in this cohort of infants were higher than recommendations. Clear and practical education is needed on complementary feeding practice for mothers highlighting what foods to introduce and when. Manufacturers have a responsibility to reduce the sodium content of food products.
21772387	A single-wavelength spectral-imaging-based Thai jasmine rice breed identification is demonstrated. Our nondestructive identification approach relies on a combination of fluorescent imaging and simple image processing techniques. Especially, we apply simple image thresholding, blob filtering, and image subtracting processes to either a 545 or a 575 nm image in order to identify our desired Thai jasmine rice breed from others. Other key advantages include no waste product and fast identification time. In our demonstration, UVC light is used as our exciting light, a liquid crystal tunable optical filter is used as our wavelength seclector, and a digital camera with 640 active pixels × 480 active pixels is used to capture the desired spectral image. Eight Thai rice breeds having similar size and shape are tested. Our experimental proof of concept shows that by suitably applying image thresholding, blob filtering, and image subtracting processes to the selected fluorescent image, the Thai jasmine rice breed can be identified with measured false acceptance rates of <22.9% and <25.7% for spectral images at 545 and 575 nm wavelengths, respectively. A measured fast identification time is 25 ms, showing high potential for real-time applications.
21773762	2-Mercaptobenzothiazolyl-(Z)-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)-2-(tert-butoxycarbonyl) isopropoxyiminoacetate is used as supplementary additives in commercial-grade insecticides to compensate for the time factor needed for the actual pesticide chemical to start its action. This investigation describes the biodegradation of 2-mercaptobenzothiazolyl-(Z)-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)-2-(tert-butoxycarbonyl) isopropoxyiminoacetate by Pseudomonas desmolyticum NCIM 2112. The biodegradation is influenced by other carbon and nitrogen sources and indicates that glucose and lactose are effective at 0.5% concentration whereas NaNO(3) and NaNO(2) at 0.05%. The percent degradation of 2-mercaptobenzothiazolyl-(Z)-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)-2-(tert-butoxycarbonyl) isopropoxyiminoacetate was found to be 40%.The pH and temperature optima were found to be 7.0°C and 30°C, respectively. The effect on soil parameters was observed in treated soil and indicates remarkable decrease in soil fertility; the phytotoxicity indicates retarded growth and germination inhibition of treated seeds of Sorghum bicolor and Triticum aestivum. In paddy field the inhibition of germination of Oryza sativa was observed.
21774322	A 16-year field experiment was conducted in a ridge culture paddy field in the hilly region of Sichuan Basin, aimed to investigate the distribution characteristics of stable carbon isotope natural abundance (delta 13C) in soil humus fractions. The soil organic carbon (SOC) content in the paddy field under different cultivation modes ranked in the order of wide ridge culture > ridge culture > paddy and upland rotation. In soil humus substances (HS), humin (HU) was the main composition, occupying 21% - 30% of the total SOC. In the extracted soil carbon, humic acid (HA) dominated, occupying 17% - 21% of SOC and 38% - 65% of HS. The delta 13C value of SOC ranged from -27.9 per thousand to -25.6 per thousand, and the difference of the delta 13C value between 0-5 cm and 20-40 cm soil layers was about 1.9 per thousand. The delta 13C value of HA under different cultivation modes was 1 per thousand - 2 per thousand lower than that of SOC, and more approached to the delta 13C value of rapeseed and rice residues. As for fulvic acid (FA), its delta 13C value was about 2 per thousand and 4 per thousand higher than that of SOC and HA, respectively. The delta 13C value of HU in plough layer (0-20 cm) and plow layer (20-40 cm) ranged from -23.7 per thousand - -24.9 per thousand and -22.6 per thousand - -24.2 per thousand, respectively, reflecting the admixture of young and old HS. The delta 13C value in various organic carbon fractions was HU>FA>SOC>rapeseed and rice residues>HA. Long-term rice planting benefited the increase of SOC content, and cultivation mode played an important role in affecting the distribution patterns of soil humus delta 13C in plough layer and plow layer.
21774323	An investigation was made at a double-rice paddy field in the Qiyang Red Soil Field Experimental Station, Hunan Province, China to study the species and biomass of weeds growing in rice (Oryza sativa L.) growth season after 34-year application of sulfur (SO4(2-)) and chloride (Cl(-))-containing chemical fertilizers under the same application rates of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K). Long-term application of Cl(-)-containing chemical fertilizer resulted in the greatest species number of weeds and the highest biomass of floating weeds and wet weeds, compared with long-term application of SO4(2-) and Cl(-) +SO4(2-)-containing chemical fertilizers. In early rice growth season, the biomass of weeds after applying Cl(-)-containing chemical fertilizer was 51.4% and 17.6% higher than that after applying Cl(-) + SO4(2-) and SO4(2-)-containing chemical fertilizers, respectively; in late rice growth season, the increment was 144% and 242%, respectively. More floating weeds were observed after applying Cl(-) + SO4(2-) and SO4(2-)-containing chemical fertilizers, but few of them were found after applying Cl(-)-containing chemical fertilizer. The total dry mass of weeds and the dry mass of wet weeds were positively correlated with soil Cl(-) content (r = 0.764, P < 0.01 and r = 0.948, P < 0.01, respectively), but negatively correlated with soil SO4(2-)-S content (r = 0.849, P < 0.01 and r = 0.641, P < 0.05). Soil alkali-hydrolyzable N and available P, under the co-effects of soil SO4(2-)-S, Cl(-), and pH, had indirect effects on the total dry mass of weeds. By adopting various fertilization measures to maintain proper soil pH and alkali-hydrolyzable N and available P contents, increase soil SO42(-)-S content, and decrease soil Cl(-) content, it could be possible to effectively inhibit the growth of wet weeds and to decrease the total biomass of weeds in double-rice paddy field.
21774326	In order to explore the cadmium (Cd)-tolerance mechanism of rice (Oryza sativa), a hydroponic experiment with Cd-tolerant rice cultivar PI312777 and Cd-sensitive rice cultivar IR24 was conducted. The cultivars were treated with 0 (control), 50, and 100 micromol L(-1) of Cd(2+) for 7 days, and the differential expression of proteins in their leaves were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF/MS approach. Under Cd stress, 31 protein spots in PI312777 leaves and 19 protein spots in IR24 leaves had significantly different expression, compared with the control. In PI312777 leaves, the 24 of 31 proteins had 4 proteins related to photosynthesis, 11 proteins related to cell metabolism and defense, 3 proteins related to other metabolism pathway, and 2 proteins were unknown proteins; in IR24 leaves, the 15 of 19 proteins were identified. Under Cd-stress, the heat shock protein, glutathione-diulfide reductase, poteasome subunit alpha type-6, 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase, thioredoxin, and DNA repair-recombination protein in PI312777 leaves were up-regulated expressed, while these proteins in IR24 were not significantly changed except the down-regulation of 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase and thioredoxin. The higher Cd-tolerance of PI312777 could have close relations with the differentially expressed proteins.
21775037	A total of 549 samples of rice, maize, wheat, sorghum and millet were obtained from markets in Ghana, the EU, US and Asia. Analysis of the samples, originating from 21 countries in 5 continents, helped to establish global mean trace element concentrations in grains; thus placing the Ghanaian data within a global context. Ghanaian rice was generally low in potentially toxic elements, but high in essential nutrient elements. Arsenic concentrations in rice from US (0.22 mg/kg) and Thailand (0.15 mg/kg) were higher than in Ghanaian rice (0.11 mg/kg). Percentage inorganic arsenic content of the latter (83%) was, however, higher than for US (42%) and Thai rice (67%). Total arsenic concentration in Ghanaian maize, sorghum and millet samples (0.01 mg/kg) was an order of magnitude lower than in Ghanaian rice, indicating that a shift from rice-centric to multigrain diets could help reduce health risks posed by dietary exposure to inorganic As.
21776212	Rice is the staple food for nearly two-thirds of the world's population. Food components and environmental load of rice depends on the rice form that is resulted by different processing conditions. Brown rice (BR), germinated brown rice (GBR) and partially-milled rice (PMR) contains more health beneficial food components compared to the well milled rice (WMR). Although the arsenic concentration in cooked rice depends on the cooking methods, parboiled rice (PBR) seems to be relatively prone to arsenic contamination compared to that of untreated rice, if contaminated water is used for parboiling and cooking. A change in consumption patterns from PBR to untreated rice (non-parboiled), and WMR to PMR or BR may conserve about 43-54 million tons of rice and reduce the risk from arsenic contamination in the arsenic prone area. This study also reveals that a change in rice consumption patterns not only supply more food components but also reduces environmental loads. A switch in production and consumption patterns would improve food security where food grains are scarce, and provide more health beneficial food components, may prevent some diseases and ease the burden on the Earth. However, motivation and awareness of the environment and health, and even a nominal incentive may require for a method switching which may help in building a sustainable society.
21776396	Random amplified polymorphic DNA fingerprinting was performed to assess the genetic diversity among rarely cultivated traditional indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) varieties collected from a tribal hamlet of Kerala State, India. A total of 664 DNA bands amplified by 15 primers exhibited 72.9% polymorphism (an average of 32.3 polymorphic bands per primer). The varieties Jeerakasala and Kalladiyaran exhibited the highest percent (50.19%) polymorphism, while Thondi and Adukkan showed the lowest (9.85%). Adukkan (78 bands) and Jeerakasala (56 bands) yielded the highest and the lowest number of amplicons, respectively. Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic mean analysis using the Dice similarity coefficient showed the highest value of similarity coefficient between the varieties Adukkan and Thondi, both shared higher level of similarity (0.81), followed by Kanali and Thondi (0.88). Of the three subclusters, the varieties of Adukkan, Thondi, Kanali, Mannuveliyan, Thonnuranthondi, and Chennellu grouped together with a similarity of 0.77. The second group represented by Navara, Gandhakasala, and Jeerakasala with a similarity coefficient of 0.76 formed a cohesive group. The variety Kalladiyaran formed an isolated position that joined the second cluster. The Principal Coordinate Analysis also showed separation of Kalladiyaran from the other varieties.
21776711	A simple method for the synthesis of rice-like gold nanoparticles using gold nanorods (GNRs) as precursors in the aqueous phase was exploited. The method used in this work involves eroding GNRs with potassium ferricyanide in the aqueous phase. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) bands of the resulting nanoparticles present a notable blue-shift from 670 to 570 nm with increasing amounts of potassium ferricyanide, and subsequently the shape of the resulting nanoparticles can be readily controlled. Most importantly, the SPR response is an almost linear function of the quantity of potassium ferricyanide added. The synthesis of the resulting nanoparticles with various aspect ratios has been extensively studied and is well established. The surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) intensity enhancement of the adsorbate on the surface of these gold nanoparticles was also studied.
21777252	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) secretes far smaller amounts of metal-complexing phytosiderophores (PS) than other grasses. But there is increasing evidence that it relies on PS secretion for its zinc (Zn) uptake. After nitrogen, Zn deficiency is the most common nutrient disorder in rice, affecting up to 50% of lowland rice soils globally. We developed a mathematical model of PS secretion from roots and resulting solubilization and uptake of Zn, allowing for root growth, diurnal variation in secretion, decomposition of the PS in the soil, and the transport and interaction of the PS and Zn in the soil. A sensitivity analysis showed that with realistic parameter values for rice in submerged soil, the typically observed rates of PS secretion from rice are sufficient and necessary to explain observed rates of Zn uptake. There is little effect of diurnal variation in secretion on cumulative Zn uptake, irrespective of other model parameter values, indicating that the observed diurnal variation is not causally related to Zn uptake efficiency. Rooting density has a large effect on uptake per unit PS secretion as a result of overlap of the zones of influence of neighbouring roots. The effects of other complications in the rice rhizosphere are discussed.
21777365	Crop architecture parameters such as tiller number, angle and plant height are important agronomic traits that have been considered for breeding programmes. Auxin distribution within the plant has long been recognized to alter architecture. The rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome contains 12 putative PIN genes encoding auxin efflux transporters, including four PIN1 and one PIN2 genes. Here, we report that over-expression of OsPIN2 through a transgenic approach in rice (Japonica cv. Nipponbare) led to a shorter plant height, more tillers and a larger tiller angle when compared with wild type (WT). The expression patterns of the auxin reporter DR5::GUS and quantification of auxin distribution showed that OsPIN2 over-expression increased auxin transport from the shoot to the root-shoot junction, resulting in a non-tissue-specific accumulation of more free auxin at the root-shoot junction relative to WT. Over-expression of OsPIN2 enhanced auxin transport from shoots to roots, but did not alter the polar auxin pattern in the roots. Transgenic plants were less sensitive to N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid, an auxin transport inhibitor, than WT in their root growth. OsPIN2-over-expressing plants had suppressed the expression of a gravitropism-related gene OsLazy1 in the shoots, but unaltered expression of OsPIN1b and OsTAC1, which were reported as tiller angle controllers in rice. The data suggest that OsPIN2 has a distinct auxin-dependent regulation pathway together with OsPIN1b and OsTAC1 controlling rice shoot architecture. Altering OsPIN2 expression by genetic transformation can be directly used for modifying rice architecture.
21778235	Plants respond to synthetic chemicals by eliciting a xenobiotic response (XR) that enhances the expression of detoxifying enzymes such as glutathione transferases (GSTs). In agrochemistry, the ability of safeners to induce an XR is used to increase herbicide detoxification in cereal crops. Based on the responsiveness of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana to the rice safener fenclorim (4,6-dichloro-2-phenylpyrimidine), a series of related derivatives was prepared and tested for the ability to induce GSTs in cell suspension cultures. The XR in Arabidopsis could be divided into rapid and slow types depending on subtle variations in the reactivity (electrophilicity) and chemical structure of the derivatives. In a comparative microarray study, Arabidopsis cultures were treated with closely related compounds that elicited rapid (fenclorim) and slow (4-chloro-6-methyl-2-phenylpyrimidine) XRs. Both chemicals induced major changes in gene expression, including a coordinated suppression in cell wall biosynthesis and an up-regulation in detoxification pathways, whereas only fenclorim selectively induced sulfur and phenolic metabolism. These transcriptome studies suggested several linkages between the XR and oxidative and oxylipin signaling. Confirming links with abiotic stress signaling, suppression of glutathione content enhanced GST induction by fenclorim, whereas fatty acid desaturase mutants, which were unable to synthesize oxylipins, showed an attenuated XR. Examining the significance of these studies to agrochemistry, only those fenclorim derivatives that elicited a rapid XR proved effective in increasing herbicide tolerance (safening) in rice.
21778827	Majority of transmembrane signal transduction in response to diverse external stimuli is mediated by G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and are the principal signal transducers. GPCRs are characterized by seven membrane-spanning domains with an extracellular N-terminus and a cytoplasmic C-terminus which functions along with GTP-binding protein in a highly coordinated fashion. Role of heterotrimeric G-proteins in abiotic stresses has been reported, but the response of GPCR is not yet well characterized. In the present study we report the isolation of one putative GPCR (966 bp) from Indica rice (Oryza sativa cv. Indica group Swarna) and described its transcriptional regulation under abiotic stresses. Amino acid sequence analyses shows the presence of typical heptahelical transmembrane spanning domains with extracellular N-terminus involved in ligand binding and cytoplasm facing C-terminus that binds with heterotrimeric G-protein. Sequence analysis also confirmed the presence of all signature motifs required for functional GPCR. Domain and site prediction shows the presence of myristoylation sites for membrane association, and protein kinase C sites for its desensitization. The transcript levels of rice GPCR was induced following NaCl and ABA treatments. However, in drought condition the expression profile of GPCR up regulated during early exposure which subsequently decreased. On the other hand it seems no significant effect due to cold and heat stress. These findings provide a direct evidence for transcriptional regulation of rice GPCR under abiotic stress conditions. These findings also suggest that GPCR can be exploited for promoting stress tolerance in plants.
21779125	Rice (Oryza Sativa) bran, comprising 10% of the total rice grain, is a by-product of the rice milling industry with world production of about 50-60 million metric tons per year. Rice bran is an excellent source of antioxidants, vitamins, fatty acids, protein, carbohydrates and other critical minerals and nutrients. In addition to being an excellent source of nutrients, rice bran is reported to be rich in phytonutrients that provide health benefits associated with blood sugar control, cholesterol metabolism, prostate health and chemoprevention. This paper focus on these phytonutrients and their effect on health.
21779386	The brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens (Stal) is a serious pest of rice in Asia. Development of novel control strategies can be facilitated by comparison of BPH feeding behaviour on varieties exhibiting natural genetic variation, and then elucidation of the underlying mechanisms of resistance. BPH feeding behaviour was compared on 12 rice varieties over a 12 h period using the electrical penetration graph (EPG) and honeydew clocks. Seven feeding behaviours (waveforms) were identified and could be classified into two phases. The first phase involved patterns of sieve element location including non penetration (NP), pathway (N1+N2+N3), xylem (N5) [21] and two new feeding waveforms, derailed stylet mechanics (N6) and cell penetration (N7). The second feeding phase consisted of salivation into the sieve element (N4-a) and sieve element sap ingestion (N4-b). Production of honeydew drops correlated with N4-b waveform patterns providing independent confirmation of this feeding behaviour. Overall variation in feeding behaviour was highly correlated with previously published field resistance or susceptibility of the different rice varieties: BPH produced lower numbers of honeydew drops and had a shorter period of phloem feeding on resistant rice varieties, but there was no significant difference in the time to the first salivation (N4-b). These qualitative differences in behaviour suggest that resistance is caused by differences in sustained phloem ingestion, not by phloem location. Cluster analysis of the feeding and honeydew data split the 12 rice varieties into three groups: susceptible, moderately resistant and highly resistant. The screening methods that we have described uncover novel aspects of the resistance mechanism (or mechanisms) of rice to BPH and will in combination with molecular approaches allow identification and development of new control strategies.
21780286	The value-added γ-oryzanol was purified in one step from crude rice bran oil (RBO) using a preparative hydrostatic countercurrent chromatography (hydrostatic CCC) method, operating in the dual mode. The fractionation was performed using a non-aqueous biphasic solvent system consisting of heptane-acetonitrile-butanol (1.8:1.4:0.7, v/v/v), leading rapidly to the target compounds. Transfer of the analytical CCC method to large-scale isolation was also carried out yielding a high quantity-high purity fraction of γ-oryzanol. In addition, a fraction of hydroxylated triterpene alcohol ferulates (polar γ-oryzanol) was clearly separated and obtained. Furthermore, a fast HPLC-APCI(±)-HRMS method was developed and applied for the identification of γ-oryzanol as well as the polar γ-oryzanol in RBO and the resulting fractions. The purity of γ-oryzanol fraction was estimated as 97% based on HPLC-APCI-HRMS analysis.
21780575	Burning of agricultural crop residues was a major source greenhouse gases. In this study, the proportion of crop straws (rice, wheat, maize, oil rape, cotton and soja) in Jiangsu used as household fuel and direct open burning in different periods (1990-1995, 1996-2000, 2001-2005 and 2006-2008) was estimated through questionnaire. The emission factors of CO2, CO, CH4 and NO20 from the above six types of crop straws were calculated by the simulated burning experiment. Thus the emission inventory of greenhouse gases from crop straws burning was established according to above the burning percentages and emission factors, ratios of dry residues to production and crop productions of different periods in Jiangsu province. Results indicated that emission factors of CO2, CO, CH4 and N2O depended on crop straw type. The emission factors of CO2 and CH4 were higher for oil rape straw than the other straws, while the maize and the rice straw had the higher N2O and CO emission factor. Emission inventory of greenhouse gases from agricultural residues burning in Jiangsu province showed, the annual average global warming potential (GWP) of six tested crop straws were estimated to be 9.18 (rice straw), 4.35 (wheat straw), 2.55 (maize straw), 1.63 (oil rape straw), 0.55 (cotton straw) and 0. 39 (soja straw) Tg CO2 equivalent, respectively. Among the four study periods, the annual average GWP had no obvious difference between the 1990-1995 and 2006-2008 periods, while the maximal annual average GWP (23.83 Tg CO2 equivalent) happened in the 1996-2000 period, and the minimum (20.30 Tg CO2 equivalent) in 1996-2000 period.
21780582	Nitrogen is the most important element for rice growth, and hyacinth can absorb large quantities of nitrogen and accumulate in their tissues. The field experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of hyacinth mulching on rice nitrogen (N) concentration, uptake, efficiency and allocation at different growth stages. Taked Yun 2645 as a material, the nitrogen uptake and utilization of rice were evaluated under two different levels of N input: low (LN, 120 kg x hm(-2)) and normal N (NN, 240 kg x hm(-2)) in 2009. Main results showed that: (1) Compared with AMB, hyacinth mulching significantly increased N concentration in rice plant over the season, hyacinth mulching significantly increased nitrogen accumulation in rice plant, and the increasing rate was gradual addition from mid-tillering to heading, but from heading to maturity the increasing rate was gradual decline. (2) Hyacinth mulching had no obvious effect on nitrogen allocation pattern in leaves and stems of rice over the season, significantly decreased nitrogen allocation pattern in spikes. (3) Except mid-tillering, hyacinth mulching resulted in the significant decrease in N use efficiency for biomass (NUEp) over the season and in N use efficiency for grain yield (NUEg) at grain maturity, but no effect was observed on nitrogen harvest index (NHI). (4) Nitrogen concentration and accumulation at most growth stages of rice increased with increasing N supply (p < 0.05 or 0.01), but NUEp and NUEg showed the opposite trends. 1(5) nteractions between hyacinth mulching x N were not observed for N uptake and utilization. Hyacinth mulching increased N concentration and N uptake, decreased NUEp and NUEg at most growth stages of rice.
21780817	In this study, metabolic profiles of a set of 48 rice germplasms from the Chinese core collection were obtained by gas chromatography and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF-MS). Forty-one metabolites were identified and relatively quantified according to the internal standard (IS). Wide ranges of variations for all metabolites were observed among rice accessions. The maximum/minimum ratios varied from 4.73 to 211.36. The metabolites were categorized into seven groups based on their chemical characteristics. Clustering analysis and a correlation network showed that most of the metabolites had variations among rice accessions in the same direction. Using 218 molecular markers, association mapping was conducted to identify the chromosomal loci influencing the concentrations of identified metabolites. Twenty markers were identified associating with the concentrations of 29 metabolites [-lg(P) > 3]. Allelic effects were investigated in detail in two markers (RM315 and RM541) as examples.
21781005	This work focuses on the effect of gamma radiation on seed born fungi (in vitro) on Oryza sativa (Swarna, Initial Evaluation Trial-5656). The responses of fungi to gamma radiation (0-4.2 kGy; 0.12 kGy/h) were studied in individual cultures of major seed-borne fungi including Alternaria alternata, Aspergillus flavus, Trichoderma viride and Curvularia geniculata. The inactivation of individual fungal-viability was noted between 1.0-2.0 kGy for A. alternata and A. flavus and 0.5-1.0 kGy for T. viride and C. geniculata. Complete inhibition was observed at <2.5 kGy. Formations of multiple germ tubes were noted in A. alternata and A. flavus at 2 kGy and 2.5 kGy, respectively. A. flavus required a higher dose to reduce viability to 10% (D(10)) value in comparison to other selected fungi. Different fungi exhibited different radiosensitivity. The dose range of 2-2.5 kGy was effective in killing all selected fungi. The fungi showing a higher D(10) value exhibited multiple germ tubes.
21781278	Pib is a well-characterized rice blast-resistance gene belonging to the nucleotide binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeat (LRR) superfamily. Expression of Pib was low under non-challenged conditions, but strongly induced by the blast-causing fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, thereby conferring resistance to the pathogen. It is generally established that cytosine methylation of the promoter-region often plays a repressive role in modulating expression of the gene in question. We report here that two critical regions of the Pib promoter were heavily CG cytosine-methylated in both cultivars studied. Surprisingly, induced expression of Pib by M. grisea infection did not entail its promoter demethylation, and partial demethylation by 5-azacytidine-treatment actually reduced Pib expression relative to wild-type plants. Accordingly, the blast disease-resistance was compromised in the 5'-azaC-treated plants relative to wild-type. In contrast, the disease susceptibility was not affected by the 5'-azaC treatment in another two rice cultivars that did not contain the Pib gene, ruling out effects of other R genes and non-specific genotoxic effects by the drug-treatment as a cause for the compromised Pib-conditioned blast-resistance. Taken together, our results suggest that promoter DNA methylation plays a novel enhancing role in conditioning high-level of induced expression of the Pib gene in times of M. grisea infection, and its conferred resistance to the pathogen.
21781807	A review of the development of food allergy in a birth cohort of 620 Australian infants at high risk for development of atopic disease has recently been completed. Extrapolating to a random community population showed that at the age of two, egg appears the most frequent food allergen (3.2%), while cow milk (2.0%), and peanut are of similar frequency (1.9%). The prevalence of hypersensitivity to wheat and soy appears similar to sesame seed, cashew nut, hazelnut and walnut, but allergy to fish, brazil nut and shell fish are uncommon. Despite a different methodology, reports from several Asian centres suggest a similar frequency of hypersensitivity to these foods in young children although hypersensitivity to shellfish and seafood was more common than for nuts, peanut and wheat, if seafoods are part of the staple infant diet. Rice hypersensitivity was rare in both Australia and Asian countries.
21782301	Activated charcoal (AC) amendment has been suggested as a promising method to immobilize organic contaminants in soil. We performed pot experiments with rice and soybean grown in agricultural soil polluted by aromatic arsenicals (AAs). The most abundant AA in rice grains and soybean seeds was methylphenylarsinic acid (MPAA). MPAA concentration in rice grains was significantly reduced to 2% and 3% in 0.2% AC treated soil compared to untreated soil in the first year of rice cultivation. In the second year, MPAA concentration in rice grains was significantly reduced to 15% in 0.2% AC treated soil compared to untreated soil. MPAA concentration in soybean seeds was significantly reduced to 44% in 0.2% AC treated soil compared to untreated soil. AC amendment was effective in reducing AAs in rice and soybean.
21782824	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, shows considerable geographic and temporal variability in its response to varieties of cultivated rice. N. lugens has repeatedly "adapted" to resistant rice varieties; however, the physiological changes underlying planthopper adaptation are poorly understood. Endosymbionts within planthoppers, such as yeast-like endosymbionts (YLS) could play a role as they produce essential amino acids for planthoppers. We used a full factorial study to determine how natal rice variety, exposed rice variety, YLS presence, and the number of reared generations affected nymphal development, planthopper total nitrogen content, and planthopper hydrolyzed amino acid profiles. Nymphal development was strongly influenced by a four-way interaction between the exposed rice variety, natal rice variety, number of reared generations, and YLS presence. While symbiosis improved nymphal performance in the 8th generation, it appeared to be a drain on nymphs in the 11th generation, when the aposymbiotic nymphs actually showed higher performance than the symbiotic nymphs. This suggests that the symbiotic relationship may be acting beneficially in one generation while acting as a drain during another generation. Aposymbiotic planthoppers reared for 11 generations had a higher proportional concentration of rare amino acids than those reared for 8 generations, indicating that the planthopper itself appears to improve its ability to acquire rare amino acids. Therefore, the change in amino acid composition of planthoppers suggests an underlying change in protein expression or amino acid metabolism over time.
21783033	A single nucleotide change in a conserved promoter element is responsible for both human-selected retention of rice grains on pedicels and for naturally selected differences in dehiscence-associated fruit structures in mustards.
21784313	This study aimed to explore the roles of three common single nucleotide polymorphisms in the X-ray repair cross-complementing group-1 gene (XRCC1) and of life style factors and their possible interactions in the risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in China. A population-based case-control study of 432 cases and 915 controls was conducted in Yangzhong County, Jiangsu Province, China. Subjects were interviewed by trained interviewers using a structured questionnaire that included questions on demographics and life style. XRCC1 genotypes were analyzed using a polymerase chain reaction based restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) assay. Unconditional logistic regression analysis was used to calculate adjusted odds ratios (aORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for associations of ESCC with XRCC1 polymorphisms and lifestyle-related factors. Both the drinking of river water and alcohol intake history were significantly associated [SW1]with an increased risk of ESCC among men with aORs of 4.20 (95% CI: 2.90-6.07) and 2.03 (95% CI: 1.43-2.89), respectively. For women, the corresponding odds ratios were 8.37 (95% CI: 5.09-13.75) for river water drinking and 12.78 (95% CI: 2.69-60.69) for long-term stored rice intake. After the XRCC1 G28152A polymorphism was adjusted for potential confounders, subjects with GA and AA genotypes had an increased risk for ESCC (aOR: 1.21, 95% CI: 0.93-1.56), compared with subjects with a GG genotype, and a positive multiplicative interaction between intake of long-term stored rice and the XRCC1 G28152A polymorphism was observed (P=0.009). Our findings suggest that both lifestyle-related factors, including drinking river water, long-term stored rice and alcohol intake, and the XRCC1 G28152A polymorphism were possible risk factors for ESCC, and that the XRCC1 G28152A polymorphism modified the effect of long-term stored rice intake on the risk of ESCC among Chinese people.
21784629	Liberation of fermentable sugars from recalcitrant lignocellulosic biomass is one of the key challenges in production of cellulosic ethanol. Here we developed a two-stage pretreatment process using aqueous ammonia and dilute sulfuric acid in a percolation mode to improve production of fermentable sugars from rice straw. Aqueous NH₃ was used in the first stage which removed lignin selectively but left most of cellulose (97%) and hemicellulose (77%). Dilute acid was applied in the second stage which removed most of hemicellulose, partially disrupted the crystalline structure of cellulose, and thus enhanced enzymatic digestibility of cellulose in the solids remaining. Under the optimal pretreatment conditions, the enzymatic hydrolysis yields of the two-stage treated samples were 96.9% and 90.8% with enzyme loadings of 60 and 15FPU/g of glucan, respectively. The overall sugar conversions of cellulose and hemicellulose into glucose and xylose by enzymatic and acid hydrolysis reached 89.0% and 71.7%, respectively.
21784911	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are obligate symbionts with most terrestrial plants. They improve plant nutrition, particularly phosphate acquisition, and thus are able to improve plant growth. In exchange, the fungi obtain photosynthetically fixed carbon. AMF are coenocytic, meaning that many nuclei coexist in a common cytoplasm. Genetic exchange recently has been demonstrated in the AMF Glomus intraradices, allowing nuclei of different Glomus intraradices strains to mix. Such genetic exchange was shown previously to have negative effects on plant growth and to alter fungal colonization. However, no attempt was made to detect whether genetic exchange in AMF can alter plant gene expression and if this effect was time dependent. Here, we show that genetic exchange in AMF also can be beneficial for rice growth, and that symbiosis-specific gene transcription is altered by genetic exchange. Moreover, our results show that genetic exchange can change the dynamics of the colonization of the fungus in the plant. Our results demonstrate that the simple manipulation of the genetics of AMF can have important consequences for their symbiotic effects on plants such as rice, which is considered the most important crop in the world. Exploiting natural AMF genetic variation by generating novel AMF genotypes through genetic exchange is a potentially useful tool in the development of AMF inocula that are more beneficial for crop growth.
21784931	Xanthomonas is a large genus of bacteria that collectively cause disease on more than 300 plant species. The broad host range of the genus contrasts with stringent host and tissue specificity for individual species and pathovars. Whole-genome sequences of Xanthomonas campestris pv. raphani strain 756C and X. oryzae pv. oryzicola strain BLS256, pathogens that infect the mesophyll tissue of the leading models for plant biology, Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, respectively, were determined and provided insight into the genetic determinants of host and tissue specificity. Comparisons were made with genomes of closely related strains that infect the vascular tissue of the same hosts and across a larger collection of complete Xanthomonas genomes. The results suggest a model in which complex sets of adaptations at the level of gene content account for host specificity and subtler adaptations at the level of amino acid or noncoding regulatory nucleotide sequence determine tissue specificity.
21784949	AGAMOUS-LIKE6 (AGL6) genes play essential roles in flower development, but whether and how they work with floral organ identity genes remain less understood. Here, we describe interactions of the rice (Oryza sativa) AGL6 gene MADS6 with other rice floral homeotic genes in flower development. Genetic analyses revealed that MADS6 specifies the identity of the three inner whorls and floral meristem determinacy redundantly with SUPERWOMAN1/MADS16 (B-gene) or MADS3 (C-gene). MADS6 was shown to define carpel/ovule development and floral determinacy by interacting with MADS13 (D-gene) and control the palea and floral meristem identities together with the YABBY gene DROOPING LEAF. Expression analyses revealed that the transcript levels of six B-, C-, and E-class genes were reduced in mads6-1 at the early flower developmental stage, suggesting that MADS6 is a key regulator of early flower development. Moreover, MADS6 can directly bind to a putative regulatory motif on MADS58 (C-gene), and mads6-1 mads58 displayed phenotypes similar to that of mads6-1. These results suggest that MADS6 is a key player in specifying flower development via interacting with other floral homeotic genes in rice, thus providing new insights into the mechanism by which flower development is controlled.
21785129	Oncidium 'Gower Ramsey' is a valuable and successful commercial orchid for the floriculture industry in Taiwan. However, no genome reference for entire sequences of the transcribed genes currently exists for Oncidium orchids, to facilitate the development of molecular biological studies and the breeding of these orchids. In this study, we generated Oncidium cDNA libraries for six different organs: leaves, pseudobulbs, young inflorescences, inflorescences, flower buds and mature flowers. We utilized 454-pyrosequencing technology to perform high-throughput deep sequencing of the Oncidium transcriptome, yielding >0.9 million reads with an average length of 328 bp, for a total of 301 million bases. De novo assembly of the sequences yielded 50,908 contig sequences with an average length of 493 bp from 796,463 reads and 120,219 singletons. The assembled sequences were annotated using BLAST, and a total of 12,757 and 13,931 unigene transcripts from the Arabidopsis and rice genomes were matched by TBLASTX, respectively. A Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of the annotated Oncidium contigs revealed that the majority of sequenced genes were associated with 'unknown molecular function', 'cellular process' and 'intracellular components'. Furthermore, a complete flowering-associated expressed sequence that included most of the genes in the photoperiod pathway and the 15 CONSTANS-LIKE (COL) homologs with the conserved CCT domain was obtained in this collection. These data revealed that the Oncidium expressed sequence tag (EST) database generated in this study has sufficient coverage to be used as a tool to investigate the flowering pathway and various other biological pathways in orchids. An OncidiumOrchidGenomeBase (OOGB) website has been constructed and is publicly available online (http://predictor.nchu.edu.tw/oogb/).
21785256	Silicon (Si) is the most abundant minerals in soil and exerts beneficial effects on plant growth by alleviating various stresses. The transport of Si from soil to the panicles is mediated by different transporters. Lsi1, belonging to a NIP group of the aquaporin family, is responsible for the uptake of Si from soil into the root cells in both dicots and monocots although its expression patterns and cellular localization differ with plant species. The subsequent transport of Si out of the root cells towards the stele is medicated by an active efflux transporter, Lsi2. Lsi1 and Lsi2 are polarly localized at the distal and proximal sides, respectively, of both exodermis and endodermis in rice root. Silicon in the xylem sap is presented in the form of monosilicic acid and is unloaded by Lsi6, a homolog of Lsi1 in rice. Lsi6 is also involved in the inter-vascular transfer of Si at the node, which is necessary for preferential Si distribution to the panicles.
21785748	Koreans eat rice, which is usually served in a rice bowl. We investigated the effect of a meal plan using small rice bowls on the total energy intake (TEI) and the marcronutrient intake in Korean men with type 2 diabetes. A total of 62 men with type 2 diabetes were divided by body mass index (BMI) (normal weight [NW], BMI<23 kg/m(2); overweight [OW], 23≤BMI<25 kg/m(2); obese [OB], BMI≥25 kg/m(2)) and proportions of carbohydrate intake to TEI (PCI) (low carbohydrate intake [LC], <55%; recommended carbohydrate intake [RC], ≥55% and ≤60%; high carbohydrate intake [HC], >60%). The 3-day dietary records were analyzed for TEI and proportions of macronutrients, before and 2 weeks after a small-sized (300 mL) rice bowl based education was given. There were no significant differences in the age and BMI within the sub-groups by BMI and PCI groups. In baseline, the ratio of TEI to recommended total energy intake (RTR) of OW and OB were higher than that of NW. The PCI of HC was higher than that of LC and alcohol intake of HC was lower than that of LC. After education, the reduction of RTREI in OB was higher than that in OW and NW. The reduction of PCI in HC was higher than that of LC. A small rice bowl based meal plan was effective for the reduction of energy intake and control of marcronutrient intake in Korean obese men with type 2 diabetes consuming a high carbohydrate diet.
21787729	Relationship between bone mineral density (BMD) and previous renal dysfunction caused by cadmium exposure was investigated. A total of 457 persons, living in polluted and control areas, were followed up in this study. The inhabitants living in exposure areas ceased ingesting cadmium-contaminated rice in 1996. Blood and urinary cadmium levels and BMD in 1998 and 2006 were measured. Urinary N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase and albumin determined in 1998 and 2006 were used to evaluate kidney status. BMD of subjects with tubular damage was significant lower than those without damage in female (p < 0.05). The prevalence of osteoporosis was significantly different between those with and without kidney damage (p = 0.003, in total population; p = 0.039, in female) and those with and without tubular damage (p = 0.0005, in total population; p = 0.007, in female). The results suggested that BMD was correlated with previous kidney impairment caused by cadmium exposure, especially to tubular damage and especially for female.
21788061	Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins/furans (PCDD/Fs) and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (DL-PCBs) were measured by high resolution gas chromatograph/high resolution mass spectrometer (HRGC/HRMS) in six food groups from Luqiao (LQ) where the e-waste has been recycled and from Yuhang (YH) where the agriculture dominates in Zhejiang Province in China. The total WHO-TEQ values of PCDD/Fs and DL-PCBs in selected foods from LQ were significantly much higher than those from YH. The highest level of the total WHO-TEQ was in crucian carp (10.87 pg g(-1) w.w.) followed by duck (3.77 pg g(-1) w.w.), hen eggs (2.80 pg g(-1) w.w.), chicken (2.43 pg g(-1) w.w.), rice (0.08 pg g(-1) w.w.) and vegetables (0.022 pg g(-1) w.w.) in LQ. By contrast, the highest levels were measured in duck (0.74 pg g(-1) w.w.) followed by hen eggs (0.69 pg g(-1) w.w.), crucian carp (0.55 pg g(-1) w.w.), chicken (0.44 pg g(-1) w.w.), vegetables (0.002 pg g(-1) w.w.) and rice (0.0002 pg g(-1) w.w.) in YH, respectively. The monthly intake of PCDD/Fs and DL-PCBs for the local residents was 401.75 pg WHO-TEQ g(-1) w.w. in LQ, which is above the provisional tolerable monthly intake (PTMI) set by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA). We determined a monthly intake of 37.13 pg WHO-TEQ g(-1)w.w. in YH, which is below the PTMI. Crucian carp was the predominant contributor to the estimated monthly intake (EMI), accounting for 67.74% and 36.51% in LQ and YH, respectively. High levels of PCDD/Fs and DL-PCBs in selected foods indicate severe contamination of these pollutants in the e-waste recycling site.
21788100	A continuous increase in the background level of tropospheric ozone (O(3)) has become a major challenge for present and future agricultural productivity at worldwide. Present study was designed to assess the impact of ambient (present) and elevated (future) concentrations of O(3) on two cultivars of Indian rice (Oryza sativa L. cvs Malviya dhan 36 and Shivani). Shoot and root lengths, number of leaves and total leaf area were severely affected by both ambient and elevated concentrations of O(3). Photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance and photosynthetic efficiency (F(v)/F(m)) were also reduced by O(3) with more drastic effects under elevated levels of O(3). Leaf proteome showed reduction of some major proteins due to O(3). Pollen viability, viable florets plant(-1) and economic yield also showed significant negative impact under O(3)-exposure in both the test cultivars. The experimental findings depict that both the cultivars of rice demonstrate differential response against O(3), and it may help the plant breeders in selection of resistant cultivars for the area having higher concentrations of O(3).
21788375	When rice seeds germinate under complete submergence, only the coleoptile elongates efficiently. It has been reported previously that coleoptile elongation is reduced in the rice alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (ADH1)-deficient mutant, reduced adh activity (rad). The aim of this study was to elucidate how expressions of genes responsible for coleoptile elongation are affected by the ADH1 deficiency in the rad mutant under submergence. To identify genes whose expressions are changed in the rad coleoptile at an early stage in germination (i.e. 1 d after imbibition), coleoptiles of the rad mutant and its wild type (WT) were isolated by laser microdissection, and their mRNA levels were examined with a microarray. The microarray analysis identified 431 genes whose transcript levels were different between rad and WT. Interestingly, among the down-regulated genes in the rad coleoptile, 17·5 % were cell division-related genes and 5·1 % were cell elongation-related genes. It was found that cell division started at 1 d after imbibition and then gradually ceased, whereas in the WT coleoptile cell elongation started between 1 d and 2 d after imbibition and then continued. However, neither cell division nor cell elongation actively occurred in the rad coleoptile, in which the amounts of ATP were reduced. These results indicate that cell division, as well as cell elongation, occur during coleoptile elongation in rice under complete submergence, and that the reduced ATP levels caused by the ADH1 deficiency repress both of them, thereby impairing coleoptile elongation in the rad mutant under submerged conditions.
21789199	Manganese ions (Mn(2+)) play a crucial role in virulence and protection against oxidative stress in bacterial pathogens. Such pathogens appear to have evolved complex mechanisms for regulating Mn(2+) uptake and efflux. Despite numerous studies on Mn(2+) uptake, however, only one efflux system has been identified to date. Here, we report on a novel Mn(2+) export system, YebN, in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causative agent of bacterial leaf blight. Compared with wild-type PXO99, the yebN mutant was highly sensitive to Mn(2+) and accumulated high concentrations of intracellular manganese. In addition, we found that expression of yebN was positively regulated by Mn(2+) and the Mn(2+)-dependent transcription regulator, MntR. Interestingly, the yebN mutant was more tolerant to methyl viologen and H(2)O(2) in low Mn(2+) medium than PXO99, but more sensitive in high Mn(2+) medium, implying that YebN plays an important role in Mn(2+) homoeostasis and detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Notably, deletion of yebN rendered Xoo sensitive to hypo-osmotic shock, suggesting that YebN may protect against such stress. That mutation of yebN substantially reduced the Xoo growth rate and lesion formation in rice implies that YebN could be involved in Xoo fitness in host. Although YebN has two DUF204 domains, it lacks homology to any known metal transporter. Hence, this is the first report of a novel metal export system that plays essential roles in hypo-osmotic and oxidative stress, and virulence. Our results lay the foundations for elucidating the complex and fascinating relationship between metal homeostasis and host-pathogen interactions.
21789706	Heading date is the one of the most important traits in rice breeding, because it defines where rice can be cultivated and influences the expression of various agronomic traits. To examine the inhibition of heading by Heading date 2 (Hd2), previously detected on the distal end of chromosome 7's long arm by quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis, we developed backcross inbred lines (BILs) from Koshihikari, a leading Japanese cultivar, and Hayamasari, an extremely early heading cultivar. The BILs were cultivated under natural field conditions in Tsukuba Japan, and under long-day (14.5 h), extremely long-day (18 h), and short-day (10 h) conditions. Combinations of several QTLs near Hd1, Hd2, Ghd7, Hd5, and Hd16 were detected under these four conditions. Analysis of advanced backcross progenies revealed genetic interactions between Hd2 and Hd16 and between Hd2 and Ghd7. In the homozygous Koshihikari genetic background at Hd16, inhibition of heading by the Koshihikari allele at Hd2 was smaller than that with the Hayamasari Hd16 allele. Similarly, in the homozygous Koshihikari genetic background at Ghd7, the difference in heading date caused by different alleles at Hd2 was smaller than in plants homozygous for the Hayamasari Ghd7 allele. Based on these results, we conclude that Hd2 and its genetic interactions play an important role in controlling heading under long-day conditions. In addition, QTLs near Hd2, Hd16, and Ghd7, which are involved in inhibition of heading under long-day conditions, function in the same pathway that controls heading date.
21790181	Rice α-(di)oxygenase mediates the regio- and stereospecific oxidation of fatty acids using a persistent catalytic tyrosyl radical. Experiments conducted in the physiological O(2) concentration range, where initial hydrogen atom abstraction from the fatty acid occurs in a kinetically reversible manner, are described. Our findings indicate that O(2)-trapping of an α-carbon radical is likely to reversibly precede reduction of a 2-(R)-peroxyl radical intermediate in the first irreversible step. A mechanism of concerted proton-coupled electron transfer is proposed on the basis of natural abundance oxygen-18 kinetic isotope effects, deuterium kinetic isotope effects, and calculations at the density functional level of theory, which predict a polarized transition state in which electron transfer is advanced to a greater extent than proton transfer. The approach outlined should be useful for identifying mechanisms of concerted proton-coupled electron transfer in a variety of oxygen-utilizing enzymes.
21790186	In this study, the rationale for exploring the thermal deterioration mechanism of the bio-oil pyrolyzed from rice husk is established. This is based on identification of the unstable intermediates in the thermal deterioration process. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was used to monitor such a thermal deterioration process of bio-oil samples in thermal treatment and/or during long-term storage at ambient temperatures of 20-30 °C. Terminal olefins, as a key intermediate, so-called "signature", were identified qualitatively by using FTIR spectroscopy. A band shift observed at 880 cm(-1), which was assigned to the C-H out-of-plane deformation vibration of terminal olefins, indicates the start-up of the bio-oil thermal deterioration. A two-step pathway was proposed to describe the thermal deterioration process of bio-oil. This study suggests that the status of bio-oil could be rapidly monitored by the FTIR method.
21790488	Fungi associated with ochratoxin A (OTA)-contaminated liquorice root and their capabilities for OTA production were investigated. Medicinal materials of mouldy liquorice root were collected from herbal markets located in Jiangxi, Zhejiang, Henan provinces and Beijing, China, respectively. Sixteen fungal species belonging to Penicillium, Aspergillus, Eurotium, Fusarium, Mucor and Scopulariopsis were isolated; the fungal composition was different in each liquorice root sample. Penicillium polonicum was predominant, comprising 54% of the total isolates in the liquorice root sample from Jiangxi province, which was contaminated with OTA at the highest level. In other samples with lower OTA contents, species of Aspergillus and Eurotium were predominant. OTA production of representative strains on rice media was detected by LC-MS/MS; all Penicillium polonicum isolates and a P. chrysogenum were ochratoxigenic; OTA concentrations ranged from 6.94 to 217.37 ng g(-1). This is the first study to report P. polonicum as an OTA-producing fungus. OTA contamination of mouldy liquorice root constitutes a major health hazard in consumption. This situation demands urgent and undivided attention.
21790614	Refined carbohydrates, such as white rice and white flour, are the mainstay of the modern Asian Indian diet, and may contribute to the rising incidence of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in this population. Prior to the 1950s, whole grains such as amaranth, barley, brown rice, millet, and sorghum were more commonly used in Asian Indian cooking. These grains and other non-Indian grains such as couscous, quinoa, and spelt are nutritionally advantageous and may be culturally acceptable carbohydrate substitutes for Asian Indians. This review focuses on practical recommendations for culturally sensitive carbohydrate modification in a modern Asian Indian diet to reduce type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in this population.
21791435	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in post-transcriptional gene regulation and have been shown to control many genes involved in various biological and metabolic processes. This work investigated miRNAs in rice (Oryza sativa), an important food crop. High-throughput sequencing technology was used to reveal expression differences in miRNAs between superior and inferior spikelets in rice (japonica cultivar Xinfeng 2) at 18 d after fertilization. Totals of 351 and 312 known miRNAs were obtained from the superior and inferior spikelets, respectively. Analysis of the expression profiles of these miRNAs showed that 189 miRNAs were differentially expressed between superior spikelets and inferior spikelets. In addition, 43 novel miRNAs were identified mostly by the accumulation of miRNA*s expressed differentially between the superior and inferior spikelets. Further analysis with bioinformatics software and comparison with existing databases showed that these differentially expressed miRNAs may individually participate in regulating hormone metabolism, carbohydrate metabolic pathways, and cell division during rice grain development. The results indicate that the slow grain-filling and low grain weight of rice inferior spikelets are attributed partly to differences in expression and function between superior and inferior spikelet miRNAs.
21791436	The inactivation of starch branching IIb (SBEIIb) in rice is traditionally associated with elevated apparent amylose content, increased peak gelatinization temperature, and a decreased proportion of short amylopectin branches. To elucidate further the structural and functional role of this enzyme, the phenotypic effects of down-regulating SBEIIb expression in rice endosperm were characterized by artificial microRNA (amiRNA) and hairpin RNA (hp-RNA) gene silencing. The results showed that RNA silencing of SBEIIb expression in rice grains did not affect the expression of other major isoforms of starch branching enzymes or starch synthases. Structural analyses of debranched starch showed that the doubling of apparent amylose content was not due to an increase in the relative proportion of amylose chains but instead was due to significantly elevated levels of long amylopectin and intermediate chains. Rices altered by the amiRNA technique produced a more extreme starch phenotype than those modified using the hp-RNA technique, with a greater increase in the proportion of long amylopectin and intermediate chains. The more pronounced starch structural modifications produced in the amiRNA lines led to more severe alterations in starch granule morphology and crystallinity as well as digestibility of freshly cooked grains. The potential role of attenuating SBEIIb expression in generating starch with elevated levels of resistant starch and lower glycaemic index is discussed.
21791732	In this paper, we propose a method to denoise magnitude magnetic resonance (MR) images, which are Rician distributed. Conventionally, maximum likelihood methods incorporate the Rice distribution to estimate the true, underlying signal from a local neighborhood within which the signal is assumed to be constant. However, if this assumption is not met, such filtering will lead to blurred edges and loss of fine structures. As a solution to this problem, we put forward the concept of restricted local neighborhoods where the true intensity for each noisy pixel is estimated from a set of preselected neighboring pixels. To this end, a reference image is created from the noisy image using a recently proposed nonlocal means algorithm. This reference image is used as a prior for further noise reduction. A scheme is developed to locally select an appropriate subset of pixels from which the underlying signal is estimated. Experimental results based on the peak signal to noise ratio, structural similarity index matrix, Bhattacharyya coefficient and mean absolute difference from synthetic and real MR images demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method over other state-of-the-art methods.
21791953	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) produces a putative effector, XoAvrBs2. We expressed XoAvrBs2 homologously in Xoo with a TAP-tag at the C-terminus to enable quantitative analysis of protein expression and secretion. Addition of rice leaf extracts from both Xoo-sensitive and Xoo-resistant rice cultivars to the Xoo cells induced expression of the XoAvrBs2 gene at the transcriptional and translational levels, and also stimulated a remarkable amount of XoAvrBs2 secretion into the medium. In a T3SS-defective Xoo mutant strain, secretion of the TAPtagged XoAvrBs2 was blocked. Thus, we elucidated the transcriptional and translational expressions of the XoAvrBs2 gene in Xoo was induced in vitro by the interaction with rice and the induced secretion of XoAvrBs2 was T3SSdependent. It is the first report to measure the homologous expression and secretion of XoAvrBs2 in vitro by rice leaf extract. Our system for the quantitative analysis of effector protein expression and secretion could be generally used for the study of host-pathogen interactions.
21792227	Transmission ratio distortion (TRD), in which one allele is transmitted more frequently than the opposite allele, is presumed to act as a driving force in the emergence of a reproductive barrier. TRD acting in a sex-specific manner has been frequently observed in interspecific and intraspecific hybrids across a broad range of organisms. In contrast, sex-independent TRD (siTRD), which results from preferential transmission of one of the two alleles in the heterozygote through both sexes, has been detected in only a few plant species. We previously reported an S(6) locus-mediated siTRD, in which the S(6) allele from an Asian wild rice strain (Oryza rufipogon) was transmitted more frequently than the S(6)(a) allele from an Asian cultivated rice strain (O. sativa) through both male and female gametes in heterozygous plants. Here, we report on the effect of a difference in genetic background on S(6) locus-mediated siTRD, based on the analysis using near-isogenic lines and the original wild strain as a parental strain for crossing. We found that the degree of TRD through the male gametes varied depending on the genetic background of the female (pistil) plants. Despite the occurrence of TRD through both male and female gametes, abnormality was detected in ovules, but not in pollen grains, in the heterozygote. These results suggest the involvement of unlinked modifiers and developmentally distinct, sex-specific genetic mechanisms in S(6) locus-mediated siTRD, raising the possibility that siTRD driven by a single locus may be affected by multiple genetic factors harbored in natural populations.
21792631	Chromosome segment duplications are integral in genome evolution by providing a source for the origin of new genes. In the rice genome, besides an ancient polyploidy event known in the rice common ancestor, it had been identified that there was a special segmental duplication involving chromosomes 11 and 12, but the biological role of this duplication remains unknown. In this study, by using a set of chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) and near isogenic lines (NILs) derived from the indica cultivar 9311 and japonica cultivar Nipponbare, a major QTL (qS12) resulting in hybrid male sterility was mapped within ~400 kb region adjacent to the special duplicated segment on the short arm of chromosome 12. Compared to the japonica cultivar Nipponbare, the two sides of the qS12 candidate region were inverted in the indica cultivar 9311. Among 47 of the 111 rice genotypes evaluated by molecular markers, the inverted sides were detected, and found completely homologous to indica cultivar 9311. These results suggested that the two inverted sides protect the sequence in the qS12 regions from recombination. On the short-arm of chromosome 12, two QTLs S-e and S25, in addition to qS12, were previously detected as a distinct segregation distortion and pollen semi-sterility loci. We propose these three hybrid sterility loci are the same locus, and the duplicated segment on chromosome 12 may play a prominent role in diversification, i.e., sub-speciation of cultivated rice.
21792744	Plants respond to heat stress by enhancing the expression of genes encoding heat shock protein (HSPs) genes through activation of heat shock factors (HSFs) which interact with heat shock elements present in the promoter of HSP genes. Plant HSFs have been divided into three conserved classes viz A, B and C. In the present study, a detailed analysis has been done of all rice HSFs, along with their spliced variants. Their chromosomal localization reveals that six HSFs are segmentally duplicated and four pairs of these segmentally duplicated HSF encoding genes show pseudo-functionalization. Expression profiling through microarray and quantitative real-time PCR showed that eight OsHsfs express at a higher level during seed development, while six HSFs are up-regulated in all the abiotic stresses studied. The expression of OsHsfA2a gene in particular was greatly stimulated by heat stress in both root and shoot tissues and also during panicle and seed development. OsHsfA3 was found more responsive to cold and drought stress, while OsHsfA7 and OsHsfA9 showed developing seed-specific expression. This study also revealed that spliced variants generally accumulated at a higher level in all the tissues examined. Different hormones/elicitors like ABA, brassinosteroids and salicylic acid also alter OsHsf gene expression. Calcium in combination with heat stress elevated further the level of HSF transcripts. Expression analysis by both microarray and real-time RT-PCR revealed a unique stable constitutive expression of OsHsfA1 across all the tissues and stresses. A detailed in silico analysis involving identification of unidentified domains has been done by MEME-motif tool in their full-length proteins as well as in DNA-binding domains. Analysis of 1 kb putative promoter region revealed presence of tissue-specific, abiotic stress and hormone-related cis-acting elements, correlating with expression under stress conditions.
21793000	We apply CE for high-throughput analysis of functional markers for marker-assisted selection in rice. The accuracy, throughput and reproducibility of CE analysis for sequence-tagged site (STS) and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers for bacterial blight resistance and aroma genes are demonstrated by using a CE system. Multiplex PCR products displayed well-differentiated allelic variants using different STS and SSR markers for identification of xa13, Xa21 and fgr genes using the CE system compared to 1.2% agarose gel images. Moreover, consumption of PCR product is much less in the CE system compared to traditional agarose gel systems. Sample consumption is less than 0.1 μL per analysis, thereby conserving samples for further downstream analysis. Out of 29 genotypes in BC(1)F(3) generation, 16 plants were found homozygous for all the three genes, viz., xa13, Xa21 and fgr. These homozygous lines can be used as potential donors in rice breeding programmes.
21793406	The arsenic contamination in soil-water-plant systems is a major concern of where, the groundwater is being contaminated with arsenic (above 0.01 mg/L) in the Indian subcontinent. The study was conducted with organic matter to find out the reducing effect on arsenic load to rice (cv. Khitish). It was observed that intermittent ponding reduced arsenic uptake (23.33% in root, 13.84% in shoot and 19.84% in leaf) at panicle initiation stage, instead of continuous ponding. A decreasing trend of arsenic accumulation (root > straw > husk > whole grain > milled grain) was observed in different plant parts at harvest. Combined applications of lathyrus + vermicompost + poultry manure reduced arsenic transport in plant parts (root, straw, husk, whole grains and milled grain) which was significantly at par (p > 0.05) with chopped rice straw (5 tons/ha) + lathyrus green manuring (5 tons/ha) in comparison to control and corresponding soils. A significant negative correlation of arsenic with phosphorus (grain P with arsenic in different parts R2= 0.627-0.726 at p > 0.01) was observed. Similarly, soil arsenic had a negative correlation with soil available phosphorus (R2 = 0.822 at p > 0.001) followed by soil nitrogen (R2 = 0.762 at p > 0.01) and soil potassium (R2 = 0.626 at p > 0.01). Hence, effective management of contaminated irrigation water along with organic matter could reduce the arsenic build up to plants and soil.
21793697	Rice stripe disease, caused by Rice stripe virus (RSV) and transmitted by the small brown planthopper (Laodelphax striatellus Fallen), is one of the most serious viral diseases of rice in temperate East Asian production regions. Prior quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping has established that Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica 'IR24' carries positive alleles at the three loci qSTV3, qSTV7, and qSTV11-i. Here, we report an advanced backcross analysis based on three selected chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs), each predicted to carry one of these three QTL. Three sets of BC(4)F(2:3) populations were bred from a cross between the critical CSSL and its recurrent parent Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica 'Asominori'. Both qSTV3 and qSTV11-i were detected in their respective population, but qSTV7 was not. An allelic analysis based on a known carrier of the major RSV resistance gene Stvb-i, which is located on chromosome 11, showed that qSTV11-i was not allelic with Stvb-i. A large mapping population was used to delimit the location of qSTV11-i to a 73.6-kb region. The de novo markers developed for this purpose will be useful as marker-assisted selection tools in efforts to introduce qSTV11-i into breeding programmes aiming to improve the level of RSV resistance.
21793954	Plant 14-3-3 proteins regulate important cellular processes, including plant immune responses, through protein-protein interactions with a wide range of target proteins. In rice (Oryza sativa), the GF14e gene, which encodes a 14-3-3 protein, is induced during effector-triggered immunity (ETI) associated with pathogens such as Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). To determine whether the GF14e gene plays a direct role in resistance to disease in rice, we suppressed its expression by RNAi silencing. GF14e suppression was correlated with the appearance of a lesion-mimic (LM) phenotype in the transgenic plants at 3 weeks after sowing. This indicates inappropriate regulation of cell death, a phenotype that is frequently associated with enhanced resistance to pathogens. GF14e-silenced rice plants showed high levels of resistance to a virulent strain of Xoo compared with plants that were not silenced. Enhanced resistance was correlated with GF14e silencing prior to and after development of the LM phenotype, higher basal expression of a defense response peroxidase gene (POX22.3), and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, GF14e-silenced plants also exhibit enhanced resistance to the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani. Together, our findings suggest that GF14e negatively affects the induction of plant defense response genes, cell death and broad-spectrum resistance in rice.
21794170	Varicella (chickenpox) exhibits a characteristic epidemiological pattern which is associated with climate. In general, primary infections in tropical regions are comparatively less frequent among children than in temperate regions. This peculiarity regarding varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection among certain age groups in tropical regions results in increased susceptibility during adulthood in these regions. Moreover, this disease shows a cyclic behavior in which the number of cases increases significantly during winter and spring. This observation further supports the participation of environmental factors in global epidemiology of chickenpox. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for this distinctive disease behavior are not understood completely. In a recent publication, Philip S. Rice has put forward an interesting hypothesis suggesting that ultra-violet (UV) radiation is the major environmental factor driving the molecular evolution of VZV. While we welcomed the attempt to explain the mechanisms controlling VZV transmission and distribution, we argue that Rice's hypothesis takes lightly the circulation of the so called "temperate VZV genotypes" in tropical regions and, to certain degree, overlooks the predominance of such lineages in certain non-temperate areas. Here, we further discuss and present new information about the overwhelming dominance of temperate VZV genotypes in Mexico regardless of geographical location and climate. UV radiation does not satisfactorily explain the distribution of VZV genotypes in different tropical and temperate regions of Mexico. Additionally, the cyclic behavior of varicella does not shown significant differences between regions with different climates in the country. More studies should be conducted to identify the factors directly involved in viral spreading. A better understanding of the modes of transmissions exploited by VZV and their effect on viral fitness is likely to facilitate the implementation of preventive measures for disease control.
21795261	Autophagy is an intracellular degradation process for recycling macromolecules and organelles. It plays important roles in plant development and in response to nutritional demand, stress, and senescence. Organisms from yeast to plants contain many autophagy-associated genes (ATG). In this study, we found that a total of 33 ATG homologues exist in the rice [Oryza sativa L. (Os)] genome, which were classified into 13 ATG subfamilies. Six of them are alternatively spliced genes. Evolutional analysis showed that expansion of 10 OsATG homologues occurred via segmental duplication events and that the occurrence of these OsATG homologues within each subfamily was asynchronous. The Ka/Ks ratios suggested purifying selection for four duplicated OsATG homologues and positive selection for two. Calculating the dates of the duplication events indicated that all duplication events might have occurred after the origin of the grasses, from 21.43 to 66.77 million years ago. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis and mining the digital expression database of rice showed that all 33 OsATG homologues could be detected in at least one cell type of the various tissues under normal or stress growth conditions, but their expression was tightly regulated. The 10 duplicated genes showed expression divergence. The expression of most OsATG homologues was regulated by at least one treatment, including hormones, abiotic and biotic stresses, and nutrient limitation. The identification of OsATG homologues showing constitutive expression or responses to environmental stimuli provides new insights for in-depth characterization of selected genes of importance in rice.
21795429	Epidemiologic studies have suggested that higher consumption of white rice (WR) is associated with increased risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, it is unclear whether substituting brown rice (BR) for WR can improve metabolic risk factors. A total of 202 middle-aged adults with diabetes or a high risk for diabetes were randomly assigned to a WR (n = 101) or BR group (n = 101) and consumed the rice ad libitum for 16 wk. Metabolic risk markers, including BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure, glycated hemoglobin, and serum lipid, glucose, and insulin concentrations were measured before and after the intervention. Over the course of the intervention, no between-group differences were found for any markers except the serum LDL cholesterol concentration, which decreased more in the WR group compared to the BR group (P = 0.02). However, this effect was observed only among participants with diabetes (n = 47). The reversion rate of reduced serum HDL cholesterol was marginally higher in the BR group (14.9%) than in the WR group (6.9%) (P = 0.07). Among participants with diabetes, a greater reduction in diastolic blood pressure was observed in the BR group compared to the WR group (P = 0.02). Our study suggests that incorporating BR into the daily diet for 16 wk did not substantially improve metabolic risk factors. Further studies with larger sample sizes, longer durations of follow-up, and different varieties of rice are needed to carefully examine the role of BR in the prevention and management of diabetes.
21796369	Polyamines are nitrogenous compounds found in all eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells and absolutely essential for cell viability. In plants, they regulate several growth and developmental processes and the levels of polyamines are also correlated with the plant responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. In plant cells, polyamines are synthesized in plastids and cytosol. This biosynthetic compartmentation indicates that the specific transporters are essential to transport polyamines between the cellular compartments. In the present study, a phylogenetic analysis was used to identify candidate polyamine transporters in rice. A full-length cDNA rice clone AK068055 was heterologously expressed in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae spermidine uptake mutant, agp2∆. Radiological uptake and competitive inhibition studies with putrescine indicated that rice gene encodes a protein that functioned as a spermidine-preferential transporter. In competition experiments with several amino acids at 25-fold higher levels than spermidine, only methionine, asparagine, and glutamine were effective in reducing uptake of spermidine to 60% of control rates. Based on those observations, this rice gene was named polyamine uptake transporter 1 (OsPUT1). Tissue-specific expression of OsPUT1 by semiquantitative RT-PCR showed that the gene was expressed in all tissues except seeds and roots. Transient expression assays in onion epidermal cells and rice protoplasts failed to localize to a cellular compartment. The characterization of the first plant polyamine transporter sets the stage for a systems approach that can be used to build a model to fully define how the biosynthesis, degradation, and transport of polyamines in plants mediate developmental and biotic responses.
21796382	Corynebacterium glutamicum wild type lacks the ability to utilize the pentose fractions of lignocellulosic hydrolysates, but it is known that recombinants expressing the araBAD operon and/or the xylA gene from Escherichia coli are able to grow with the pentoses xylose and arabinose as sole carbon sources. Recombinant pentose-utilizing strains derived from C. glutamicum wild type or from the L-lysine-producing C. glutamicum strain DM1729 utilized arabinose and/or xylose when these were added as pure chemicals to glucose-based minimal medium or when they were present in acid hydrolysates of rice straw or wheat bran. The recombinants grew to higher biomass concentrations and produced more L-glutamate and L-lysine, respectively, than the empty vector control strains, which utilized the glucose fraction. Typically, arabinose and xylose were co-utilized by the recombinant strains along with glucose either when acid rice straw and wheat bran hydrolysates were used or when blends of pure arabinose, xylose, and glucose were used. With acid hydrolysates growth, amino acid production and sugar consumption were delayed and slower as compared to media with blends of pure arabinose, xylose, and glucose. The ethambutol-triggered production of up to 93 ± 4 mM L-glutamate by the wild type-derived pentose-utilizing recombinant and the production of up to 42 ± 2 mM L-lysine by the recombinant pentose-utilizing lysine producer on media containing acid rice straw or wheat bran hydrolysate as carbon and energy source revealed that acid hydrolysates of agricultural waste materials may provide an alternative feedstock for large-scale amino acid production.
21796391	Fusarium proliferatum (Matsushima) Nirenberg is a common pathogen infecting numerous crop plants and occurring in various climatic zones. It produces large amounts of fumonisins, a group of polyketide-derived mycotoxins. Fumonisin biosynthesis is determined by the presence and activity of the FUM cluster, several co-regulated genes with a common expression pattern. In the present work, we analyzed 38 F. proliferatum isolates from different host plant species, demonstrating host-specific polymorphisms in partial sequences of the key FUM1 gene (encoding polyketide synthase). We also studied growth rates across different temperatures and sample origin and tried to establish the relationships between DNA sequence polymorphism and toxigenic potential. Phylogenetic analysis was conducted based on FUM1 and tef-1α sequences for all isolates. The results indicated the greatest variations of both toxigenic potential and growth patterns found across the wide selection of isolates derived from maize. Fumonisin production for maize isolates ranged from 3.74 to 4,500 μg/g of fumonisin B(1). The most efficient producer isolates obtained from other host plants were only able to synthesize 1,820-2,419 μg/g of this metabolite. A weak negative rank correlation between fumonisin content and isolate growth rates was observed. All garlic-derived isolates formed a distinct group on a FUM1-based dendrogram. A second clade consisted of tropical and sub-tropical strains (isolated from pineapple and date palm). Interestingly, isolates with the fastest growth patterns were also grouped together and included both isolates originating from rice. The sequence of the FUM1 gene was found to be useful in revealing the intraspecific polymorphism, which is, to some extent, specifically correlated with the host plant.
21796433	Polyamine oxidases (PAOs) are FAD-dependent enzymes involved in polyamine (PA) catabolism. Recent studies have revealed that plant PAOs are not only active in the terminal catabolism of PAs as demonstrated for maize apoplastic PAO but also in a polyamine back-conversion pathway as shown for most Arabidopsis PAOs. We have characterized Oryza sativa PAOs at molecular and biochemical levels. The rice genome contains 7 PAO isoforms that are termed OsPAO1 to OsPAO7. Of the seven PAOs, OsPAO3, OsPAO4, and OsPAO5 transcripts were most abundant in 2-week-old seedlings and mature plants, while OsPAO1, OsPAO2, OsPAO6, and OsPAO7 were expressed at very low levels with different tissue specificities. The more abundantly expressed PAOs--OsPAO3, OsPAO4, and OsPAO5--were cloned, and their gene products were produced in Escherichia coli. The enzymatic activities of the purified OsPAO3 to OsPAO5 proteins were examined. OsPAO3 favored spermidine (Spd) as substrate followed by thermospermine (T-Spm) and spermine (Spm) and showed a full PA back-conversion activity. OsPAO4 substrate specificity was similar to that of OsPAO5 preferring Spm and T-Spm but not Spd. Those enzymes also converted Spm and T-Spm to Spd, again indicative of PA back-conversion activities. Lastly, we show that OsPAO3, OsPAO4, and OsPAO5 are localized in peroxisomes. Together, these data revealed that constitutively and highly expressed O. sativa PAOs are localized in peroxisomes and catalyze PA back-conversion processes.
21796637	Denitrification is a microbial process that has received considerable attention during the past decade since it can result in losses of added nitrogen fertilisers from agricultural soils. Paddy soil has been known to have strong denitrifying activity, but the denitrifying microorganisms responsible for fertilisers in paddy soil are not well known. The objective of this study was to explore the impacts of 17-year application of inorganic and organic fertiliser (rice straw) on the abundance and composition of a nosZ-denitrifier community in paddy soil. Soil samples were collected from CK plots (no fertiliser), N (nitrogen fertiliser), NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilisers) and NPK + OM (NPK plus organic matter). The nitrous oxide reductase gene (nosZ) community composition was analysed using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, and the abundance was determined by quantitative PCR. Both the largest abundance of nosZ-denitrifier and the highest potential denitrifying activity (PDA) occurred in the NPK + OM treatment with about four times higher than that in the CK and two times higher than that in the N and NPK treatments (no significant difference). Denitrifying community composition differed significantly among fertilisation treatments except for the comparison between CK and N treatments. Of the measured abiotic factors, total organic carbon was significantly correlated with the observed differences in community composition and abundance (P < 0.01 by Monte Carlo permutation). This study shows that the addition of different fertilisers affects the size and composition of the nosZ-denitrifier community in paddy soil.
21797024	A fully validated and rapid quantitative method is presented for determination of inorganic arsenic [arsenite, As(III) and arsenate, As(V)] and organic arsenic species (methylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid, and arsenobetaine) by ion chromatography paired with inductively coupled plasma/MS after ultrasonic-assisted enzymatic extraction (UAEE) in rice- and seafood-based raw materials and finished products. This method gives toxicological meaning to arsenic analysis, since the sum of the toxic chemical forms As(III) and As(V) can be determined. In contrast to classical water-methanol extraction, UAEE enables drastic acceleration of sample extraction (5 min instead of several hours), while total arsenic extraction efficiency is improved without species conversion. Validation was performed to evaluate the method for selectivity, linearity, LOD/LOQ (0.007-0.020 mg/kg), trueness, precision (HorRat values, 0.2-0.6), recovery (93-122%), and uncertainty. The method was also satisfactorily tested using two proficiency tests. Performance characteristics are reported for four certified reference materials, standard reference material (SRM) 1568a (rice flour), Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements 804 (rice flour), SRM 2976 (mussel tissue), certified reference material-627 (tuna fish), and several commercial food samples populating five AOAC triangle food sectors. The results indicated that this speciation method is cost-efficient, time-saving, and accurate, as well as fit-for-purpose, according to International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission 17025:2005 standard, and could be used for routine analysis.
21797247	Inorganic arsenic (iAs) is considered to be a human carcinogen. In this paper, total (As) and iAs contents of 215 food products and drinks (i.e., seafood, fruits and vegetables, meat products, oils and fats, rice and rice products, seasonings, and alcoholic drinks) marketed in Catalonia (Spain) were quantified by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. The analytical method described was used for different food products, obtaining feasible results without the need to couple LC-ICP-MS for iAs. Daily As and iAs intakes for the average adult Catalan consumer were estimated at 354 and 6.1 μg/day/person, respectively, using consumption data from the Catalan Nutrition Survey (ENCAT). The highest As content was found in seafood, contributing 96% of dietary As intake, whereas rice presented the highest iAs values, corresponding to 67% of dietary iAs intake. As cooking process may affect iAs content, boiled rice was evaluated, showing an iAs reduction (up to 86%) when using higher water volumes (30:1 water/rice ratio) than those used in previous studies. This iAs exposure was slightly below the exposure risk range stated by the European Food Safety Authority (0.3-8 μg/kg of body weight/day), although the possibility of a risk to the population with high rice consumption cannot be excluded.
21798035	Epidemiological studies have raised concerns about the role of dietary patterns on the risk of chronic diseases and also in the formulation of better informed nutrition policies. The development of a dietary availability patterns according to geographic regions in Brazil. The 2002-2003 Brazilian Household Budget Survey was conducted in 48,470 households. Dietary availability patterns were identified by Principal Component Analysis using as a unit of analysis the survey's Primary Sampling Units (PSUs) and purchased amounts for 21 food groups. Each of the extracted dietary availability patterns was regressed on socioeconomics categories. There were no differences in dietary availability patterns between urban and rural areas. In all regions, a rice and beans pattern was identified. This pattern explained 15% to 28% of the variance dependent on the region of the country. In South, Southeast and Midwest regions, a mixed pattern including at least 10 food groups explaining 8% to 16% of the variance. In the North region (Amazon forest included) the first pattern was based on fish and nuts and then it was designed as regional pattern. In multiple linear regression the rice and beans pattern was associated with the presence of adolescents in the households, except for North region, whereas the presence of adolescents was associated with the Regional pattern. A mixed patterns were associated with a higher income and education (p < 0.05), except in the South region. The rice and beans and regional dietary availability patterns, both considered healthy eating patterns are still important in the country. Brazil has taken many actions to improve nutrition as part of their public health policies, the data of the Household Budget Survey could help to recognize the different food choices in the large regions of the country.
21798395	Support for a prescription statin clinical trial for the prevention or treatment of prostate cancer has been lacking, although recent data have provoked interest in such a study. The authors have initiated a pilot trial of red yeast rice (RYR) extract and prostate cancer. RYR significantly reduces low-density lipoprotein and is an option for statin-intolerant patients. RYR appears to be an adequate proxy for some statins as long as quality control is monitored. The REALITY (REduction in Active surveillance Lipid Indices Through Yeast of red rice) trial will be conducted in Toronto, Canada.
21799793	With the existence of large publicly available plant gene expression data sets, many groups have undertaken data analyses to construct gene coexpression networks and functionally annotate genes. Often, a large compendium of unrelated or condition-independent expression data is used to construct gene networks. Condition-dependent expression experiments consisting of well-defined conditions/treatments have also been used to create coexpression networks to help examine particular biological processes. Gene networks derived from either condition-dependent or condition-independent data can be difficult to interpret if a large number of genes and connections are present. However, algorithms exist to identify modules of highly connected and biologically relevant genes within coexpression networks. In this study, we have used publicly available rice (Oryza sativa) gene expression data to create gene coexpression networks using both condition-dependent and condition-independent data and have identified gene modules within these networks using the Weighted Gene Coexpression Network Analysis method. We compared the number of genes assigned to modules and the biological interpretability of gene coexpression modules to assess the utility of condition-dependent and condition-independent gene coexpression networks. For the purpose of providing functional annotation to rice genes, we found that gene modules identified by coexpression analysis of condition-dependent gene expression experiments to be more useful than gene modules identified by analysis of a condition-independent data set. We have incorporated our results into the MSU Rice Genome Annotation Project database as additional expression-based annotation for 13,537 genes, 2,980 of which lack a functional annotation description. These results provide two new types of functional annotation for our database. Genes in modules are now associated with groups of genes that constitute a collective functional annotation of those modules. Additionally, the expression patterns of genes across the treatments/conditions of an expression experiment comprise a second form of useful annotation.
21799856	Pathogenic bacteria synthesize and secrete toxic low molecular weight compounds as virulence factors. These microbial toxins play essential roles in the pathogenicity of bacteria in various hosts, and are emerging as targets for antivirulence strategies. Toxoflavin, a phytotoxin produced by Burkholderia glumae BGR1, has been known to be the key factor in rice grain rot and wilt in many field crops. Recently, toxoflavin-degrading enzyme (TxDE) was identified from Paenibacillus polymyxa JH2, thereby providing a possible antivirulence strategy for toxoflavin-mediated plant diseases. Here, we report the crystal structure of TxDE in the substrate-free form and in complex with toxoflavin, along with the results of a functional analysis. The overall structure of TxDE is similar to those of the vicinal oxygen chelate superfamily of metalloenzymes, despite the lack of apparent sequence identity. The active site is located at the end of the hydrophobic channel, 9 Å in length, and contains a Mn(II) ion interacting with one histidine residue, two glutamate residues, and three water molecules in an octahedral coordination. In the complex, toxoflavin binds in the hydrophobic active site, specifically the Mn(II)-coordination shell by replacing a ligating water molecule. A functional analysis indicated that TxDE catalyzes the degradation of toxoflavin in a manner dependent on oxygen, Mn(II), and the reducing agent dithiothreitol. These results provide the structural features of TxDE and the early events in catalysis.
21800099	Rice internodes must have the proper shape to support high-yielding panicles. The shape of internodes is controlled by various factors involved in their formation, such as developmental patterns, cell division, cell elongation, and cell wall biosynthesis. To understand the regulation of internode development, we screened dwarf mutants to identify those with a phenotype of ectopic deposits of phenolic components in parenchyma cell walls of internodes. We named these mutants ectopic deposition of phenolic components1 (edp1). Two alleles were identified, edp1-1 and edp1-2. Furthermore, these mutants showed disordered cell files in internode parenchyma. These abnormal phenotypes were very similar to that of a previously reported dwarf50 (d50) mutant. Genetic analyses of edp1 mutants revealed that the edp1 loci are distinct from d50. Our results indicate that analyses of edp1 mutants as well as the d50 mutant will be useful for understanding the molecular mechanisms behind ectopic deposition of cell wall phenolic components in internode parenchyma cells and the regulation of internode development.
21800324	The whiter the rice, the more it is preferred by consumers and the more value it has in the market place. The first objective of this study was to determine the interrelationships of raw colour, cooked colour, amylose content and protein content in rice. The second objective was to assess whether or not the colour of cooked rice can be predicted from raw rice colour in conjunction with amylose and protein contents. Protein and amylose contents were not significantly correlated with the colour measurements for raw rice. Protein and amylose showed moderate, significant associations with L* and a* and a*, b* and C* respectively for cooked rice. Only the colour variable a* of cooked rice could be predicted using protein, amylose and raw rice colour with high enough precision to be useful, and this was only for modelling using samples cooked in the same manner (rice cooker). Cooking method (rice cooker versus excess water) affected the colour of cooked rice. Being able to predict a* in cooked rice is likely of limited value. Only the model that used samples where postharvest handling conditions were controlled (US-grown rice) was able to predict C*, a more useful measure, and then with only moderate ability. L*, a measure of brightness/whiteness, was not predicted well by any of the models.
21800545	Xuezhikang capsule (ethanol extract of red yeast rice) which produced by Beijing WBL Peking University Biotech Co., Ltd., is a traditional Chinese medication with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibiting activity. Clinical trials indicated that Xuezhikang with lipid-lowering action could reduce the risk of cardiac events and total mortality of Chinese coronary heart disease patients. To exactly explain the clinical features of Xuezhikang, we undertook a complete study of the chemical constituents of Xuezhikang. This study resulted in the isolation of a new monacolin analogue, named alpha, beta-dehydromonacolin L (1), along with two known compounds: monacolin L (2) and 3-(2, 6-dimethyl-1, 2, 4a, 5, 6, 7, 8, 8a-octahydronaphthalen-1-yl)propanoic acid (3). The chemical structures were determined by extensive 1D and 2D NMR and MS spectroscopic analysis.
21800595	Insufficiency of phosphorus could greatly effect rice production, thus it is significant to adopt quick and nondestructive diagnosis of phosphorus content. The present paper focused on first expanded leaves with different phosphorus fertilization levels, comprehensively extracted 26 features' spectral information such as color, texture and shape etc. Single feature index analysis was conducted. Then features were collected to integrate CfsSubsetEval + Scattersearch method for optimizing, evaluation and choosing. Based on the feature selection for different leave positions, leaves in different phosphorus fertilization levels were finally classified into three grades (extremly insufficient, significant insufficient and normal) according to rough set theory. Results showed that the accuracy of recognition was very high while few phosphorus contained in the leaves. Moreover, the third expanded leaf is the best part for phosphorus-nutrient diagnosis.
21800615	The bioorganic carbon contents and chemical element compositions in six kinds of cereals: paddy (rice), wheat (flour), soybean, millet, sorghum and corn were determined by X-ray fluorescence (XRF) spectrum, meanwhile a new method was established to probe their protein contents. In the cereals, the average bioorganic carbon content is about 440%. The highest protein content is 42.74% from soybean, and other protein content is 28.56% in millet, 27.57% in wheat, 24.99% in corn, 22.21% in sorghum, but only 20.31% in rice. Based on our new definition of carbon chemical circulation presented in the current work, the authors have found that in 2009 humankind used bioorganic carbon to discharge CO2 into the earth's atmosphere that accounts for one percent of the total CO2 discharge, and consumed organic carbon to release CO2 into the earth's atmosphere, accounting for 10.73% of the total CO2 discharge. The clear definition of carbon chemical circulation and the discharged CO2 content from the distinct types of carbon compounds would advance the study on carbon chemical circulation and the atmospheric CO2 greenhouse effect. Our work further found that it takes eight years to circulate the total earth's atmospheric CO2. The short period shows the sensitivity for CO2 to keep its dynamical equilibrium in the earth's atmosphere. However, no experimental data has been reported to prove a heavy destructive greenhouse effect of CO2 existing in the earth's atmosphere.
21800900	A sensitive and reliable method was developed and validated for trace determination of sulfonylurea herbicides residues in cereals (wheat, rice, and corn) by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The selected analytes were ethoxysulfuron, ethametsulfuron-methyl, bensulfuron-methyl, chlorimuron-ethyl, pyrazosulfuron-ethyl, and cyclosulfamuron. In this work, the extraction procedure was performed by using a mixture solvent of phosphate buffer (pH 9.5)/acetonitrile (8:2, v/v) as the extraction solvent and then was cleaned up by using Spe-ed C18/18% SPE cartridges, providing good recoveries for all of the tested analytes and with no matrix effects affecting method accuracy. The limits of detection for the studied analytes in cereal samples were between 0.043 and 0.23 μg kg(-1), and the limits of quantification were between 0.14 and 0.77 μg kg(-1), lower in all cases than the maximum residue limits permitted by the European Union for this kind of food. The developed methodology has demonstrated its suitability for the monitoring of these residues in cereal samples with high sensitivity, precision, and satisfactory recoveries.
21801300	The rice α-amylase 3D promoter system, which is activated under sucrose-starved conditions, has emerged as a useful system for producing recombinant proteins. However, using rice as the production system for therapeutic proteins requires modifications of the N-glycosylation pattern because of the potential immunogenicity of plant-specific sugar residues. In this study, glyco-engineered rice were generated as a production host for therapeutic glycoproteins, using RNA interference (RNAi) technology to down-regulate the endogenous α-1,3-fucosyltransferase (α-1,3-FucT) and β-1,2-xylosyltransferase (β-1,2-XylT) genes. N-linked glycans from the RNAi lines were identified, and their structures were compared with those isolated from a wild-type cell suspension. The inverted-repeat chimeric RNA silencing construct of α-1,3-fucosyltransferase and β-1,2-xylosyltransferase (Δ3FT/XT)-9 glyco-engineered line with significantly reduced core α-1,3-fucosylated and/or β-1,2-xylosylated glycan structures was established. Moreover, levels of plant-specific α-1,3-fucose and/or β-1,2-xylose residues incorporated into recombinant human granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (hGM-CSF) produced from the N44 + Δ3FT/XT-4 glyco-engineered line co-expressing ihpRNA of Δ3FT/XT and hGM-CSF were significantly decreased compared with those in the previously reported N44-08 transgenic line expressing hGM-CSF. None of the glyco-engineered lines differed from the wild type with respect to cell division, proliferation or ability to secrete proteins into the culture medium.
21801642	To study the dynamics of wild rodent populations and identify potential hosts for hantavirus, we conducted an eco-epidemiologic study in Campo Novo do Parecis, Mato Grosso State, Brazil. We detected and genetically characterized Castelo dos Sonhos virus found in a species of pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys utiaritensis).
21801764	Rice crops are severely damaged by diseases caused by bacterial, fungal, and viral pathogens. Application of host resistance to these pathogens is the most economical and environmentally friendly approach to solve this problem. Quantitative resistance conferred by quantitative trait loci (QTL) is a valuable resource for the improvement of rice disease resistance. Although numerous resistance QTL against rice diseases have been identified, these resources have not been used effectively in rice improvement because the genetic control of quantitative resistance is complex and the genes underlying most of the resistance QTL remain unknown. This review focuses on the latest molecular progress in quantitative disease resistance in rice. This knowledge will be helpful for characterizing more resistance QTL and turning the quantitative resistance into actual resources for rice protection.
21801880	In the Italian oenological industry, the regular practice used to naturally increase the colour of red wines consists in blending them with a wine very rich in anthocyanins, namely Rossissimo. In the Asian market, on the other hand, anthocyanins extracted by black rice are frequently used as correctors for wine colour. This practice does not produce negative effects on health; however, in many countries, it is considered as a food adulteration. The present study is therefore aimed to discriminate wines containing anthocyanins originated from black rice and grapevine by using reliable spectroscopic techniques requiring minimum sample preparation. Two series of samples have been prepared from five original wines, that were added with different amounts of Rossissimo or of black rice anthocyanins solution, until the desired Colour Index was reached. The samples have been analysed by FT-NIR and (1)H NMR spectroscopies and the resulting spectra matrices were subjected to multivariate classification. Initially, PLS-DA was used as classification method, then also variable selection/classification methods were applied, i.e. iPLS-DA and WILMA-D. The classification with variable selection of NIR spectra permitted to classify the test set samples with an efficiency of about 70%. Probably these not excellent performances are due to the matrix effect, together with the lack of sensitivity of NIR with respect to minor compounds. On the contrary, very satisfactory results were obtained on NMR spectra in the aromatic region between 6.5 and 9.5 ppm. The classification method based on wavelet-based variables selection, permitted to reach an efficiency in validation greater than 95%. Finally, 2D correlation analysis was applied to FT-NIR and (1)H NMR matrices, in order to recognise the spectral zones bringing the same chemical information.
21801978	With a growing number of dietary interventions that claim to improve lipid profile, it is important to ensure that these claims are evidence based. The objective of this study was to make recommendations for dietary regimens by analyzing their effectiveness and the level of evidence. We searched MEDLINE as well as the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews for nutritional studies. Meta-analyses and randomized controlled trials published in English and including data on the effect on blood lipid levels were used. Randomized controlled trials were included if they were at least 4 weeks in duration and had a minimum of 50 participants. We identified 22 different dietary interventions and reviewed 136 studies published between January 1990 and December 2009 that met our inclusion criteria. Our literature review showed that to improve lipid profile, the following regimens can be recommended fully: Mediterranean and Portfolio diets; low-fat diet; diet high in soy protein, fibre, or phytosterols; whole grain foods, and omega-3 fatty acid supplementation. The consumption of nuts, a diet high in carbohydrates and protein, green tea, and red wine, as well as the supplementation with policosanol and red yeast rice extract, can be considered for improvement of the lipid profile, while the supplements of guggulipid, garlic, chromium, vitamin C, magnesium-pyridoxal-phosphate-glutamate, tocotrienols, and absorbitol cannot be recommended.
21802016	To review the clinical features, pathophysiology, and management of food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) and to discuss new observations in epidemiology and natural history. PubMed searches were performed for articles published between 1978 and May 2011 using the keywords food-induced enterocolitis and FPIES. Articles were selected based on their relevance to the topic of this review. The newest developments in FPIES were defined by articles published in the past 3 years. FPIES is a non-IgE-mediated gastrointestinal food hypersensitivity thought to be cell-mediated, although the exact pathophysiologic mechanism requires further study. In a recent birth cohort, the incidence of cow's milk FPIES was 0.34% in the first year of life compared with 0.5% for IgE-mediated cow's milk allergy. FPIES typically presents before 6 months of age in formula-fed infants with repetitive emesis, diarrhea, dehydration, and lethargy 1 to 5 hours after ingesting the offending food. Four cases of FPIES in breastfed infants have recently been reported. The most common offending foods are cow's milk, soy, and rice. Diagnosis is based primarily on clinical history and, when unclear, physician-supervised oral food challenges. FPIES is usually outgrown by school age. Although management remains avoidance of the offending food, observations that natural history varies for different foods has redefined the timing of reintroduction. Early recognition of FPIES and removal of the offending food are imperative to prevent misdiagnosis and mismanagement of symptoms that may mimic other causes. Close follow-up is required to determine when foods may be added back into the diet.
2180214	Different starchy foods produce different glycemic responses when fed individually, and there is evidence that this also applies in the context of the mixed meal. Methods of processing, and other factors unrelated to the nutrient composition of foods may also have major effects on the glycemic response. The reason for differences in glycemic response appears to relate to the rate at which the foods are digested and the many factors influencing this. The glycemic index (GI) is a system of classification in which the glycemic responses of foods are indexed against a standard (white bread). This allows the results of different investigators to be pooled. GI values also depend upon a number of nonfood-related variables. The method of calculation of the glycemic response area is most important, but the method of blood sampling and length of time of studies also may have effects. Variability of glycemic responses arises from day-to-day variation in the same subject and variation between different subjects. There is less variability between the GI values of different subjects than there is within the same subject from day to day. Therefore, the mean GI values of foods are independent of the glucose tolerance status of the subjects being tested. Potentially clinically useful starchy foods producing relatively flat glycemic responses have been identified, including legumes, pasta, barley, bulgur, parboiled rice and whole grain breads such as pumpernickel. Specific incorporation of these foods into diets have been associated with reduced blood glucose, insulin, and lipid levels. Low-GI foods may influence amino acid metabolism although the implications of these are unknown. In addition, low GI foods increase colonic fermentation. The physiologic and metabolic implications of this relate to increased bacterial urea utilization, and to the production and absorption of short chain fatty acids in the colon. The application of the GI to therapeutic diets should be in the context of the overall nutrient composition of the diet. High-fat or high-sugar foods may have a low GI, but it may not be prudent to recommend these foods solely on the basis of the GI. It is therefore suggested that the most appropriate use of the GI is to rank the glycemic effects of starchy foods which would already have been chosen for possible inclusion in the diet on the basis of their nutritional attributes, i.e. low-fat, unrefined carbohydrate.
21802171	This paper presents evidence for the existence of both a circadian and an ultradian rhythm in the elongation growth of rice roots. Root elongation of rice (Oryza sativa) was recorded under dim green light by using a CCD camera connected to a computer. Four treatment conditions were set-up to investigate the existence of endogenous rhythms: 28°C constant temperature and continuous dark (28 DD); 28°C constant temperature and alternating light and dark (28 LD); 33°C constant temperature and continuous dark (33 DD); and diurnal temperature change and alternating light and dark (DT-LD). The resulting spectral densities suggested the existence of periodicities of 20.4-25.2 h (circadian cycles) and 2.0-6.0 h (ultradian cycles) in each of the 4 treatments. The shorter ultradian cycles can be attributed to circumnutational growth of roots and/or to mucilage exudation. The average values across all the replicate data showed that the highest power spectral densities (PSDs) corresponded to root growth rhythms with periods of 22.9, 23.7, and 2.1 h for the 28 DD, 28 LD, and 33 DD treatments, respectively. Accumulation of PSD for each data set indicated that the periodicity was similar in both the 28 DD and 33 DD treatments. We conclude that a 23-h circadian and a 2-h ultradian rhythmicity exist in rice root elongation. Moreover, root elongation rates during the day were 1.08 and 1.44 times faster than those during the night for the 28 LD and DT-LD treatments, respectively.
21802456	To analyze decision making under uncertainty of monkeys, common marmosets were trained to choose and remove one of two colored caps on wells arranged side by side. Each well contained constant reward (3 grains of puffed rice) or risky reward (0 or 6 grains; probability, 50%:50%). For each marmoset, white or black color was assigned randomly as a symbol of non-risky or risky choice. Arrangement of white and black caps was determined randomly in each trial. After 200 trials (5 trials per day), the marmosets were classified according to the pattern of their choice. Eight of 18 marmosets (44.4%) were risk-aversive, whereas 5 marmosets (27.8%) were risk-prone. The remaining 5 marmosets (27.8%) preferred to choose one side (left n=4, right n=1). These results showed individual differences in decision making of marmosets. An additional task with reduction in the expected value of the preferred choice revealed that risk-aversive marmosets were slower to adjust their choices to such reductions than risk-prone animals.
21802559	Dietary patterns are critical in the prevention and management of chronic diseases. We examined the association between habitual dietary patterns and the risk of metabolic syndrome in South Korean adults. The study sample was composed of 9,850 Korean adults (aged ≥19 years) who participated in the second and third Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Dietary data were assessed by the 24-hour recall method. Metabolic syndrome was defined by the joint of interim statement of the International Diabetes Federation and the American Heart Association/National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Four dietary patterns were derived using factor analysis (white rice and kimchi pattern; meat and alcohol pattern; high fat, sweets, and coffee pattern; and grains, vegetables, and fish pattern). Each dietary pattern explained 8.6%, 6.7%, 5.7%, and 5.7% of the variation in food intakes, respectively. The meat and alcohol pattern was adversely associated with hypertriglyceridemia (P for trend 0.01) and elevated blood pressure (P for trend 0.01) after adjustments for potential risk factors of metabolic syndrome such as age, sex, body mass index, energy intake, alcohol intake, smoking status, and physical activity. In contrast, the grains, vegetables, and fish pattern was associated with lower risk of hypertriglyceridemia (P for trend 0.0002) and was also inversely associated with the risk of metabolic syndrome after adjusting for risk factors of the metabolic syndrome (P for trend 0.02). Our study suggests that a specific Korean dietary pattern that includes grains, vegetables, and fish may be associated with lower risk of metabolic syndrome in South Korean adults.
21802967	The quantum-mechanical/molecular-mechanical (QM/MM) method was used to study the glycosylation mechanism of rice BGlu1 β-glucosidase in complex with laminaribiose. The calculation results reveal that the glycosylation step experiences a concerted process from the reactant to the glycosyl-enzyme complex with an activation barrier of 15.7 kcal/mol, in which an oxocarbenium cation-like transition state (TS) is formed. At the TS, the terminal saccharide residue planarizes toward the half-chair conformation, and the glycosidic bond cleavage is promoted by the attacks of proton donor (E176) on glycosidic oxygen and nucleophilic residue (E386) on the anomeric carbon of laminaribiose. Both the nucleophilic glutamate (E386) and acid/base catalyst (E176) establish shorter hydrogen bridges with the C₂-hydroxyl groups of sugar ring, which play an important role in the catalytic reaction of rice BGlu1 β-glucosidase.
21803813	The most photosynthetically active leaves of rice seedlings were severely damaged when shoots but not roots were chilled (10°C/25°C, respectively), but no such injury was observed when the whole seedling was chilled (10°C/10°C). To elucidate the mechanisms, we compared the photosynthetic characteristics of the seedlings during the dark chilling treatments. Simultaneous analyses of Chl fluorescence and the change in absorbance of P700 showed that electron transport almost disappeared in both PSII and PSI in the 10°C/25°C leaves, whereas the electron transport rate in PSI in the 10°C/10°C leaves was similar to or higher than that in non-chilled control leaves. Light-induced non-photochemical quenching in PSII was inhibited in the 10°C/25°C leaves, occurring at only half the level in the 10°C/10°C leaves, whereas non-light-induced non-photochemical quenching remained high in the 10°C/25°C leaves. The light induction of Chl a fluorescence (OJIP curves) in the 10°C/25°C leaves was similar to that in leaves treated with DCMU. The fluorescence decay after a single turnover saturating flash in the 10°C/25°C leaves was much slower than in the 10°C/10°C leaves. In vivo analyses of the 550-515 nm difference signal indicated decreased formation of a proton gradient across the thylakoid membrane and decreased zeaxanthin formation in the 10°C/25°C leaves. Our results suggest that electron transport was blocked between Q(A) and Q(B) in the dark 10°C/25°C leaves, but without irreversible damage to the components of this system. The consequent light-dependent losses of electron transport, proton gradient formation across the thylakoids and thermal dissipation may therefore be responsible for the visible injury.
21804028	Nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ) regulates energy conversion in photosystem II and protects plants from photoinhibition. Here we analyze NPQ capacity in a number of rice cultivars. NPQ was strongly induced under medium and high light intensities in rice leaves. Japonica cultivars generally showed higher NPQ capacities than Indica cultivars when we measured a rice core collection. We mapped NPQ regulator and identified a locus (qNPQ1-2) that seems to be responsible for the difference in NPQ capacity between Indica and Japonica. One of the two rice PsbS homologues (OsPsbS1) was found within the qNPQ1-2 region. PsbS protein was not accumulated in the leaf blade of the mutant harboring transferred DNA insertion in OsPsbS1. NPQ capacity increased as OsPsbS1 expression increased in a series of transgenic lines ectopically expressing OsPsbS1 in an Indica cultivar. Indica cultivars lack a 2.7-kb region at the point 0.4 kb upstream of the OsPsbS1 gene, suggesting evolutionary discrimination of this gene.
21804566	'Florigen' was proposed 75 years ago to be synthesized in the leaf and transported to the shoot apex, where it induces flowering. Only recently have genetic and biochemical studies established that florigen is encoded by FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), a gene that is universally conserved in higher plants. Nonetheless, the exact function of florigen during floral induction remains poorly understood and receptors for florigen have not been identified. Here we show that the rice FT homologue Hd3a interacts with 14-3-3 proteins in the apical cells of shoots, yielding a complex that translocates to the nucleus and binds to the Oryza sativa (Os)FD1 transcription factor, a rice homologue of Arabidopsis thaliana FD. The resultant ternary 'florigen activation complex' (FAC) induces transcription of OsMADS15, a homologue of A. thaliana APETALA1 (AP1), which leads to flowering. We have determined the 2.4 Å crystal structure of rice FAC, which provides a mechanistic basis for florigen function in flowering. Our results indicate that 14-3-3 proteins act as intracellular receptors for florigen in shoot apical cells, and offer new approaches to manipulate flowering in various crops and trees.
2180481	Healthy male volunteers consumed hot lunches consisting of cooked white rice, fried chicken fillet, raisins, bigarreaus (sweet cherries) and curry sauce with carbohydrate: fat ratios of either 0.77 or 2.04, and polysaccharide: (mono + di)saccharide ratios (P:MD) varying between 5.3 and 0.95. Before and at various time intervals after the start of the meal, blood samples were analysed for glucose, insulin, triacylglycerol (TG), free glycerol (FG), free fatty acids (FFA) and cholesterol. Elevated postprandial glucose and insulin peaks were induced by the meals containing a larger amount of carbohydrate. The type of carbohydrate in the meal appeared to have little or no effect on the peak maximum. A small second glucose peak was seen at 2 h after the meals with P: MD greater than 3.1. The TG concentration in the blood showed a similar and rapid rise. After the meal containing the largest amount of simple sugars, the TG curve levelled off 1 h after the start of the meal and then remained at a nearly constant level (1.5 mM). In contrast, a larger amount of complex carbohydrates induced a TG concentration which rapidly rose to a maximum of 1.75 mM, and subsequently decreased slowly to somewhat below that of the simple sugar-rich meal at 4 h. The postprandial curves after the fat-rich meals showed a continuous rise of TG up to a maximum of about 2 mM at 2 h, and a subsequent slow decrease. FG and FFA all showed a rapid drop immediately after the start of the consumption of the meals, followed by a rebound at 1 h. The postprandial curves of total cholesterol, as well as the areas below the curve of both total cholesterol and free, unesterified cholesterol were lower after the carbohydrate-rich meals than after the fat-rich meals. This is attributed to the larger amount of cholesterol in the fat-rich meals.
21805099	Cadmium (Cd)-contaminated rice is one of the most important sources of cadmium exposure in the general population from some Asian countries. This study was conducted to assess cadmium exposure from uncooked rice in rural mining areas based on the bioaccessible fraction of cadmium using an in vitro digestion model. The biotoxic effects of cadmium in uncooked rice from mining areas were much higher than those in the control area, based not only on their higher total concentration (52.49 vs. 7.93 μg kg(-1)), but also on their higher bioaccessibility (16.94% vs. 2.38%). In the mining areas, the bioaccessible fraction of cadmium in uncooked rice has a significant positive correlation with the total concentration of cadmium in rice and there was quarterly unsafe rice to the public in the mining areas. The results indicated that the in vitro digestion model could be a useful and economical tool for providing the solubilization or bioaccessibility of uncooked rice in the mining area. The results could be helpful in conducting future experiments of cooked rice in the vitro model.
21805151	Pyruvate kinase (PK) catalyzes the final step of glycolysis. There are few reports on the role of PK in rice. Here, we identified a novel rice dwarf mutant, designated as ospk1, showing dwarfism, panicle enclosure, reduced seed set, and outgrowth of axillary buds from culm nodes. Sequence analyses of 5'-RACE indicated that a single T-DNA was inserted in the transcriptional regulatory region of OsPK1 in ospk1. Quantitative RT-PCR result showed that OsPK1 expression was decreased by approximately 90% in ospk1 compared with that in WT. Enzyme assay and transient expression in protoplasts indicated that OsPK1 encodes a cytosolic PK (PK(c)). Complementation with OsPK1 demonstrated that OsPK1 is responsible for the phenotype of ospk1. Quantitative RT-PCR and GUS staining analyses exhibited that OsPK1 was expressed mainly in leaf mesophyll cells, phloem companion cells in stems, and cortical parenchyma cells in roots. The transcriptions of four other putative enzymes involved in the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway were altered in ospk1. The amount of pyruvate is decreased in ospk1. We propose that OsPK1 plays an important role through affecting the glycolytic pathway. The contents of glucose and fructose were markedly accumulated in flag leaf blade and panicle of ospk1. The sucrose level in panicle of ospk1 was decreased by approximately 84%. These findings indicated that both monosaccharide metabolism and sugar transport are altered due to the decreased expression of OsPK1. Together, these results provide new insights into the role of PK(c) in plant morphological development, especially plant height.
21805305	The experiment was conducted to determine effects of urea-lime-treated rice straw and urea levels in concentrate on rumen fermentation, apparent nutrient digestibility, and cellulolytic bacteria population of 4-year-old, rumen-fistulated swamp buffaloes. All animals were randomly assigned according to a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement in a 4 × 4 Latin square design to receive four dietary treatments: factor A, two sources of roughage (rice straw and 2%urea + 2%lime-treated rice straw); factor B, two levels of urea in concentrate mixture (0% and 4%). Roughages were given ad libitum together with 0.3% BW of concentrate. It was found that voluntary feed intake, the digestibility of DM, OM, CP, NDF, acetate, and propionate concentration were significantly increased (P < 0.05) by treated rice straw, while NH(3)-N, BUN, and propionic acid concentration were increased by both factors of treated rice straw and 4% urea in concentrate. The real-time PCR quantification of Fibrobacter succinogenes and Ruminococcus albus population, and anaerobic fungi were greater (P < 0.05), but the population of Ruminococcus flavefaciens, protozoa, and methanogenic bacteria were reduced (P > 0.05) as influenced by treated rice straw and urea level. In conclusion, the combined use of urea-lime-treated rice straw and fed with concentrate (4% urea) could improve rumen ecology, rumen fermentation efficiency, and nutrient digestibility in swamp buffaloes.
21805338	Rice seed size is an important agronomic trait in determining the yield potential, and four seed size related genes (GS3, GW2, qSW5/GW5 and GIF1) have been cloned in rice so far. However, the relationship among these four genes is still unclear, which will impede the process of gene pyramiding breeding program to some extent. To shade light on the relationship of above four genes, gene expression analysis was performed with GS3-RNAi, GW2-RNAi lines and CSSL of qSW5 at the transcriptional level. The results clearly showed that qSW5 and GW2 positively regulate the expression of GS3. Meanwhile, qSW5 can be down-regulated by repression of GW2 transcription. Additionally, GIF1 expression was found to be positively regulated by qSW5 but negatively by GW2 and GS3. Moreover, the allelic effects of qSW5 and GS3 were detailedly characterized based on a natural population consisting of 180 rice cultivars. It was indicated that mutual interactions exist between the two genes, in which, qSW5 affecting seed length is masked by GS3 alleles, and GS3 affecting seed width is masked by qSW5 alleles. These findings provide more insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying seed size development in rice and are likely to be useful for improving rice grain yield.
21805362	14-3-3s are a class of conserved proteins in eukaryotes involved in almost all cellular processes. Published studies have shown that this family plays a role in response to stress conditions. In this study, comparative genomics identified thirty-one 14-3-3 cDNAs encoding 25 unique proteins with transcripts that were sufficiently divergent in the coding regions to define different 14-3-3 members. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the cotton 14-3-3 family was similar to the family in the plant model species Arabidopsis and rice. The multiple copies of 14-3-3 genes in cotton are suggested to be the result of a recent duplication event after the divergence of cotton from its progenitor species. 14-3-3s are differentially expressed in a range of cotton organs as well as under different environmental conditions. Salinity and drought stress significantly induced the altered expression of 14-3-3 genes, suggesting that 14-3-3s play a role in cotton response to environmental abiotic stress. The 14-3-3 gene CGF14-4 was more sensitive to both drought and salinity stress with a 10.2-fold change under 1% of PEG treatment, while other 14-3-3s responded only to either drought or salinity stress. These results implied that specific isoforms of 14-3-3s play different regulatory roles in stress response besides their role in development. 14-3-3s were more sensitive to abiotic stress in roots than in leaves, suggesting that the root is more sensitive to stress treatment than leaves. The differential expression pattern of 14-3-3s also suggests the occurrence of functional divergence among specific isoforms.
21806114	Infrared predissociation spectra of M(+)(H(2)O)(4-7), where M = alkali metal, are presented. Hydrogen bonding O-H stretching features are strongly dependent on which fragmentation channel is monitored. Spectra recorded by monitoring the loss of multiple waters show a preference for one absorption feature in the hydrogen-bonded region centered at ∼3430-3500 cm(-1), which is assigned to linear-type hydrogen bonded OH stretches. Cyclic- and bent-type hydrogen bonded OH stretches have diminished photodissociation cross sections in the multiple ligand loss channels. Evidence from Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus-evaporative ensemble calculations and laser fluence dependence experiments indicates that the multiple water loss channels are primarily the result of multiple photon absorption which we propose could be due to multiple, independent oscillators within a cluster ion each absorbing a photon during a single, 10 ns laser pulse.
21806801	In rice, the major part of the post-embryonic root system is made of stem-derived roots named crown roots (CR). Among the few characterized rice mutants affected in root development, crown rootless1 mutant is unable to initiate crown root primordia. CROWN ROOTLESS1 (CRL1) is induced by auxin and encodes an AS2/LOB-domain transcription factor that acts upstream of the gene regulatory network controlling CR development. To identify genes involved in CR development, we compared global gene expression profile in stem bases of crl1 mutant and wild-type (WT) plants. Our analysis revealed that 250 and 236 genes are down- and up-regulated respectively in the crl1 mutant. Auxin induces CRL1 expression and consequently it is expected that auxin also alters the expression of genes that are early regulated by CRL1. To identify genes under the early control of CRL1, we monitored the expression kinetics of a selected subset of genes, mainly chosen among those exhibiting differential expression, in crl1 and WT following exogenous auxin treatment. This analysis revealed that most of these genes, mainly related to hormone, water and nutrient, development and homeostasis, were likely not regulated directly by CRL1. We hypothesized that the differential expression for these genes observed in the crl1 mutant is likely a consequence of the absence of CR formation. Otherwise, three CRL1-dependent auxin-responsive genes: FSM (FLATENNED SHOOT MERISTEM)/FAS1 (FASCIATA1), GTE4 (GENERAL TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR GROUP E4) and MAP (MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEIN) were identified. FSM/FAS1 and GTE4 are known in rice and Arabidopsis to be involved in the maintenance of root meristem through chromatin remodelling and cell cycle regulation respectively. Our data showed that the differential regulation of most genes in crl1 versus WT may be an indirect consequence of CRL1 inactivation resulting from the absence of CR in the crl1 mutant. Nevertheless some genes, FAS1/FSM, GTE4 and MAP, require CRL1 to be induced by auxin suggesting that they are likely directly regulated by CRL1. These genes have a function related to polarized cell growth, cell cycle regulation or chromatin remodelling. This suggests that these genes are controlled by CRL1 and involved in CR initiation in rice.
21807194	The present investigation is the first part of an initiative to prepare a regional map of the natural abundance of selenium in various areas of Brazil, based on the analysis of bean and soil samples. Continuous-flow hydride generation electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry (HG-ET AAS) with in situ trapping on an iridium-coated graphite tube has been chosen because of the high sensitivity and relative simplicity. The microwave-assisted acid digestion for bean and soil samples was tested for complete recovery of inorganic and organic selenium compounds (selenomethionine). The reduction of Se(VI) to Se(IV) was optimized in order to guarantee that there is no back-oxidation, which is of importance when digested samples are not analyzed immediately after the reduction step. The limits of detection and quantification of the method were 30 ng L(-1) Se and 101 ng L(-1) Se, respectively, corresponding to about 3 ng g(-1) and 10 ng g(-1), respectively, in the solid samples, considering a typical dilution factor of 100 for the digestion process. The results obtained for two certified food reference materials (CRM), soybean and rice, and for a soil and sediment CRM confirmed the validity of the investigated method. The selenium content found in a number of selected bean samples varied between 5.5±0.4 ng g(-1) and 1726±55 ng g(-1), and that in soil samples varied between 113±6.5 ng g(-1) and 1692±21 ng g(-1).
21807552	Germline development and early embryogenesis in eukaryotes are characterized by large-scale genome reprogramming events. In companion cells of the Arabidopsis male gametophyte, epigenome reorganization leads to loss of heterochromatin and production of a distinct small RNA (sRNA) population. A specific class of sRNA derived from transposons appears to be mobile and can accumulate in germ cells. In the germline of maize, rice, and Arabidopsis, specific ARGONAUTE-sRNA silencing complexes appear to play key roles in reproductive development, including meiosis and regulation of germ cell fate. These results reveal new roles for sRNAs during plant reproduction and suggest that mobility of sRNAs could be critical for some of these functions.
21807632	Plethora (PLT) genes encode transcription factors containing AP2-domain, and have been shown to maintain the activity of stem cells and regulate the root development of dicot Arabidopsis thaliana. Through genome-wide analysis, 10 OsPLT members were identified in monocot rice. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis of the expression patterns of these OsPLT genes showed that OsPLTs1-5, OsPLTs7-9, and OsPLT10 were preferentially expressed in root, stem, or seed, respectively, and OsPLT6 was preferentially expressed both in root and seed. Further analysis by in situ hybridization showed that six root-expressed OsPLT genes (1-6) were all expressed in the primodium of crown root, and most of them were expressed in the initial cells adjacent to quiescent center of primary, crown, and lateral roots. In addition, OsPLT genes were regulated by multiple hormones, suggesting that OsPLTs might play an important role in the regulation of hormone-mediated development of main, crown, and lateral roots of rice.
21807692	Increasing physical water scarcity is a major constraint for irrigated rice (Oryza sativa) production. 'Aerobic rice culture' aims to maximize yield per unit water input by growing plants in aerobic soil without flooding or puddling. The objective was to determine (a) the effect of water management on root morphology and hydraulic conductance, and (b) their roles in plant-water relationships and stomatal conductance in aerobic culture. Root system development, stomatal conductance (g(s)) and leaf water potential (Ψ(leaf)) were monitored in a high-yielding rice cultivar ('Takanari') under flooded and aerobic conditions at two soil moisture levels [nearly saturated (> -10 kPa) and mildly dry (> -30 kPa)] over 2 years. In an ancillary pot experiment, whole-plant hydraulic conductivity (soil-leaf hydraulic conductance; K(pa)) was measured under flooded and aerobic conditions. Adventitious root emergence and lateral root proliferation were restricted even under nearly saturated conditions, resulting in a 72-85 % reduction in total root length under aerobic culture conditions. Because of their reduced rooting size, plants grown under aerobic conditions tended to have lower K(pa) than plants grown under flooded conditions. Ψ(leaf) was always significantly lower in aerobic culture than in flooded culture, while g(s) was unchanged when the soil moisture was at around field capacity. g(s) was inevitably reduced when the soil water potential at 20-cm depth reached -20 kPa. Unstable performance of rice in water-saving cultivations is often associated with reduction in Ψ(leaf). Ψ(leaf) may reduce even if K(pa) is not significantly changed, but the lower Ψ(leaf) would certainly occur in case K(pa) reduces as a result of lower water-uptake capacity under aerobic conditions. Rice performance in aerobic culture might be improved through genetic manipulation that promotes lateral root branching and rhizogenesis as well as deep rooting.
21807887	4-Coumarate:coenzyme A ligase (4CL; EC 6.2.1.12) is a key enzyme in the phenylpropanoid metabolic pathways for monolignol and flavonoid biosynthesis. 4CL has been much studied in dicotyledons, but its function is not completely understood in monocotyledons, which display a different monolignol composition and phenylpropanoid profile. In this study, five members of the 4CL gene family in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome were cloned and analyzed. Biochemical characterization of the 4CL recombinant proteins revealed that the rice 4CL isoforms displayed different substrate specificities and catalytic turnover rates. Among them, Os4CL3 exhibited the highest turnover rate. No apparent tissue-specific expression of the five 4CLs was observed, but significant differences in their expression levels were detected. The rank in order of transcript abundance was Os4CL3 > Os4CL5 > Os4CL1 > Os4CL4 > Os4CL2. Suppression of Os4CL3 expression resulted in significant lignin reduction, shorter plant growth, and other morphological changes. The 4CL-suppressed transgenics also displayed decreased panicle fertility, which may be attributed to abnormal anther development as a result of disrupted lignin synthesis. This study demonstrates that the rice 4CLs exhibit different in vitro catalytic properties from those in dicots and that 4CL-mediated metabolism in vivo may play important roles in regulating a broad range of biological events over the course of rice growth and development.
21809982	The genome of the endophytic diazotrophic bacterial species Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus PAL5 (PAL5) revealed the presence of a gum gene cluster. In this study, the gumD gene homologue, which is predicted to be responsible for the first step in exopolysaccharide (EPS) production, was insertionally inactivated and the resultant mutant (MGD) was functionally studied. The mutant MGD presented normal growth and nitrogen (N(2)) fixation levels but did not produce EPS when grown on different carbon sources. MGD presented altered colony morphology on soft agar plates (0.3% agar) and was defective in biofilm formation on glass wool. Most interestingly, MGD was defective in rice root surface attachment and in root surface and endophytic colonization. Genetic complementation reverted all mutant phenotypes. Also, the addition of EPS purified from culture supernatants of the wild-type strain PAL5 to the mutant MGD was effective in partially restoring wild-type biofilm formation and plant colonization. These data provide strong evidence that the PAL5 gumD gene is involved in EPS biosynthesis and that EPS biosynthesis is required for biofilm formation and plant colonization. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a role of EPS in the endophytic colonization of graminaceous plants by a nitrogen-fixing bacterium.
21810995	Reproductive organ development is one of the most important steps in the life cycle of plants. Studies using core eudicot species like thale cress (Arabidopsis thaliana) and snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus) have shown that MADS domain transcription factors belonging to the AGAMOUS (AG) subfamily regulate the identity of stamens, carpels, and ovules and that they are important for floral meristem determinacy. Here, we investigate the genetic interactions between the four rice (Oryza sativa) AG subfamily members, MADS3, MADS13, MADS21, and MADS58. Our data show that, in contrast with previous reports, MADS3 and MADS58 determine stamen and carpel identity and, together with MADS13, are important for floral meristem determinacy. In the mads3 mads58 double mutant, we observed a complete loss of reproductive organ identity and massive accumulation of lodicules in the third and fourth floral whorls. MADS21 is an AGL11 lineage gene whose expression is not restricted to ovules. Instead, its expression profile is similar to those of class C genes. However, our genetic analysis shows that MADS21 has no function in stamen, carpel, or ovule identity determination.
21811796	The impact of fertilization regimes on sequential denitrifying communities was investigated in a rice paddy field with 17 years continuous fertilization, located in Taoyuan Agro-ecosystem Research Station (110°72″ E, 28°52″ N), China. The diversity, community composition, and size of denitrifying genes of narG, qnorB, and nosZ were determined using molecular tools including terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), cloning, and sequencing analysis. Soil samples were collected from the plots with no fertilizer (NF), urea (UR), balanced mineral fertilizers (BM), and BM combined with rice straw (BMR). UR and BM caused marked increase in the community size of the denitrifying genes; however, BMR resulted in the highest abundance. The community size of narG was the most affected by the fertilization regimes, while qnorB was the least. Fertilization also induced some shifts in the composition of denitrifying genes, but the responses of different genes varied. However, fertilization regimes caused no significant changes to the diversity of the denitrifying genes. Potential denitrification activity (PDA) was significantly correlated with the abundance of narG and nosZ rather than qnorB, but there were no such correlations between PDA and the composition and diversity of denitrifying communities. Conclusively, long-term fertilization significantly affected denitrifying community size and composition, but not diversity. Among the sequential denitrifying genes, narG was the most, while qnorB was the least sensitive communities to fertilization regimes.
21811828	Plant productivity is greatly affected by environmental stresses such as drought, salt, and freezing. We previously described a C-repeat binding transcription factor from maize (ZmCBF3) that was upregulated by both abscisic acid and low-temperature and actively expressed during embryogenesis. To understand the stress response in rice, transgenic ZmCBF3 rice with ubiquitin promoter was developed. T3 generation was planted and analyzed. The results showed that overexpression of ZmCBF3 in rice did not cause growth retardation under normal growth conditions with improved tolerance to drought, high-salt, and low-temperature stresses. Moreover, the transgenic rice grain yield was similar to wild type plants under normal conditions. The transgenic plants showed enhanced survival rate and reduced malondialdehyde content and relative conductivity under drought, salt, and low-temperature stresses. ZmCBF3 overexpression in transgenic rice increased the transcript levels of stress-induced genes and enhanced the tolerance to drought, salt, and low-temperature stresses.
21812141	Study in CBA line mice of immunogenicity of cold adapted reassortant influenza virus H5N2 vaccine strain samples produced in rollers in MDCK and Vero cell cultures by using plant derived components. Antibody levels in blood sera and nasal swabs, lungs and small intestine of experimental vaccine strain sample immunized mice were evaluated by using HI reaction in accordance with WHO recommendations. Reassortant vaccine strain A/17/duck/Potsdam/86/92 (H5N2) produced in MDCK and Vero cells by using plant derived components (rice and soy flour hydrolyzate and plant protease based nutrient medium) after intranasal immunization of mice induced local and humoral antibodies, and the latter not only against homologous virus, but also against highly pathogenic avian influenza virus strains A/ Chicken/Suzdalka/Nov-11/2005 and A/Chicken/Kurgan/05/2005. Immunogenicity studies of reassortant influenza virus A/17/duck/Potsdam/86/92 (H5N2) vaccine strain samples cultivated in MDCK and Vero cells by using media with plant derived components in mice show high levels of humoral and secretory immunity.
21812290	By the method of water culture, the low-phosphorus tolerance of 221 lines of Xieqingzao B//Xieqingzao B/Dongxiang wild rice BC1 F9 populations was indentified. The morphological indices including plant height, leaf age, yellow leaf number, and shoot dry mass as well as the physiological indices including MDA, soluble sugar, and shoot phosphorus content were measured, also, the phosphorus efficiency was calculated, and the correlations among the indices were analyzed. All the 221 lines had differences in the seven test indices, and the low-phosphorus tolerance lines under low-phosphorus stress had higher values of relative leaf age, relative plant height, relative shoot dry mass, and relative soluble sugar content, but lower values of relative yellow leaf number and relative malondialdehyde content. The relative shoot phosphorus content had less difference. Phosphorus efficiency was positively correlated with phosphorus utilization efficiency and phosphorus uptake efficiency, and the correlation between phosphorus efficiency and phosphorus utilization efficiency was at significant level (P < 0.01), suggesting that the low-phosphorus tolerance capability of the low-phosphorus tolerance lines was mainly attributed to the high phosphorus utilization efficiency of the lines, namely, low-phosphorus tolerance lines had stronger capability in synthesizing dry mass with per unit phosphorus uptake.
21812302	Based on the 1961-2009 weather data from 21 meteorological stations in Ningxia, this paper analyzed the spatiotemporal variation trend of regional agricultural climate resources in Ningxia, Northwest China. In 1961-2009, the air temperature in Ningxia increased gradually from south to north, with the mean annual temperature increased by 0.4 degrees C x (10 a)(-1) , while the annual precipitation in most regions decreased gradually, with a decrement 4.26 mm x (10 a)(-1). Both the frost-free period and the duration of crop growth season prolonged. The regions with > or = 10 degrees C accumulated temperature being > or = 3200 degrees C x d extended southwardly, and thereby, the regions adaptive for planting mid and late rice increased. In 2001-2009, most regions were adaptive for plating winter wheat, and the whole Ningxia was adaptive for plating spring wheat. In the southern mountain regions, the region with mean temperature in July being < or = 20 degrees C decreased gradually, and accordingly, the regions adaptive for planting potato decreased.
21813198	Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), subtype H5N1, was first officially reported in Indonesia in 2004. Since then the disease has spread and is now endemic in large parts of the country. This study investigated the statistical relationship between a set of risk factors and the presence or absence of HPAI in Indonesia during 2006 and 2007. HPAI was evaluated through participatory disease surveillance (PDS) in backyard village chickens (the study population), and risk factors included descriptors of people and poultry distribution (separating chickens, ducks and production sectors), poultry movement patterns and agro-ecological conditions. The study showed that the risk factors "elevation", "human population density" and "rice cropping" were significant in accounting for the spatial variation of the PDS-defined HPAI cases. These findings were consistent with earlier studies in Thailand and Vietnam. In addition "commercial poultry population", and two indicators of market locations and transport; "human settlements" and "road length", were identified as significant risk factors in the models. In contrast to several previous studies carried out in Southeast Asia, domestic backyard ducks were not found to be a significant risk factor in Indonesia. The study used surrogate estimates of market locations and marketing chains and further work should focus on the actual location of the live bird markets, and on the flow of live poultry and poultry products between them, so that patterns of possible transmission, and regions of particular risk could be better inferred.
21813626	Polyadenylation sites mark the ends of mRNA transcripts. Alternative polyadenylation (APA) may alter sequence elements and/or the coding capacity of transcripts, a mechanism that has been demonstrated to regulate gene expression and transcriptome diversity. To study the role of APA in transcriptome dynamics, we analyzed a large-scale data set of RNA "tags" that signify poly(A) sites and expression levels of mRNA. These tags were derived from a wide range of tissues and developmental stages that were mutated or exposed to environmental treatments, and generated using digital gene expression (DGE)-based protocols of the massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS-DGE) and the Illumina sequencing-by-synthesis (SBS-DGE) sequencing platforms. The data offer a global view of APA and how it contributes to transcriptome dynamics. Upon analysis of these data, we found that ∼60% of Arabidopsis genes have multiple poly(A) sites. Likewise, ∼47% and 82% of rice genes use APA, supported by MPSS-DGE and SBS-DGE tags, respectively. In both species, ∼49%-66% of APA events were mapped upstream of annotated stop codons. Interestingly, 10% of the transcriptomes are made up of APA transcripts that are differentially distributed among developmental stages and in tissues responding to environmental stresses, providing an additional level of transcriptome dynamics. Examples of pollen-specific APA switching and salicylic acid treatment-specific APA clearly demonstrated such dynamics. The significance of these APAs is more evident in the 3034 genes that have conserved APA events between rice and Arabidopsis.
21813808	A high intake of white rice is associated with the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes. Costa Ricans follow a staple dietary pattern that includes white rice and beans, yet the combined role of these foods on cardiometabolic risk factors has not been studied. We aimed to determine the association between intake of white rice and beans and the metabolic syndrome and its components in Costa Rican adults (n = 1879) without diabetes. Multivariate-adjusted means were calculated for components of the metabolic syndrome by daily servings of white rice and beans (<1, 1, or >1) and by the ratio of beans to white rice. The OR for the metabolic syndrome was calculated by substituting one serving of beans for one serving of white rice. An increase in daily servings of white rice was positively associated with systolic blood pressure (BP), triglycerides, and fasting glucose and inversely associated with HDL cholesterol (P-trend <0.01 for all). An increase in servings of beans was inversely associated with diastolic BP (P = 0.049). Significant trends for higher HDL cholesterol and lower BP and triglycerides were observed for 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, and 2:1 ratios of beans to white rice. Substituting one serving of beans for one serving of white rice was associated with a 35% (95% CI: 15%, 50%) lower risk of the metabolic syndrome. Increasing the ratio of beans to white rice, or limiting the intake of white rice by substituting beans, may lower cardiometabolic risk factors.
21814396	Resistance genes are among the most important gene classes for plant breeding purposes being responsible for activation of plant defense mechanisms. Among them, the nucleotide binding site-leucine rich repeat (NBS-LRR) class R-genes are the most abundant and actively found in all types of plants. Insilico characterization of EST database resulted in the detection of 28 NBS types R-gene sequences in Curcuma longa. All the 28 sequences represented the NB-ARC domain, 21 of which were found to have highly conserved motif characteristics and categorized as regular NBS genes. The Open Reading Frames varied from 361 (CL.CON.3566) to 112 (CL.CON.1267) with an average of 279 amino acids. Most alignment occurred with monocots (67.8%) with emphasis on Oryza sativa and Zingiber sequences. All best alignments with dicots occurred with Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa and Medicago sativa. These detected NBS type Rgenes from Curcuma longa can be used as a valuable resource for molecular marker development, molecular mapping of R-genes, and identification of resistance gene analogs and functional and evolutionary characterization of NBS-LRR-encoding resistance genes in asexually reproducing plants.
21814482	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) in the tumor microenvironment play important roles in tumor invasion and metastasis. Recently, ROS have been reported to cause a significant increase in the production and expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-7, which is closely correlated with metastatic colorectal cancer. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the scavenging activity of dimerumic acid (DMA) for H₂O₂ isolated from Monascus-fermented rice to investigate the inhibitory effects of DMA on the invasive potential of SW620 human colon cancer cells, and to explore the mechanisms underlying both these phenomena. Our results showed that increased MMP-7 expression due to H₂O₂ exposure was mediated by activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) such as Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK), and p38 kinase. DMA pretreatment suppressed activation of H₂O₂-mediated MAPK pathways and cell invasion. Moreover, H₂O₂-triggered MMP-7 production was demonstrated via JNK/c-Jun and ERK/c-Fos activation in an activating protein 1 (AP-1)-dependent manner. Taken together, these results suggest that DMA suppresses H₂O₂-induced cell invasion by inhibiting AP-1-mediated MMP-7 gene transcription via the JNK/c-Jun and ERK/c-Fos signaling pathways in SW620 human colon cancer cells. Our data suggest that DMA may be useful in minimizing the development of colorectal metastasis. In the future, DMA supplementation may be a beneficial antioxidant to enhance surgical outcomes.
21815157	The chemical compositions of the stem and leaf sheath of few-flower wild rice were analysed. In addition, their extracts were evaluated for diphenylpicrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free radical-scavenging activity, ferric-reducing antioxidant power and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitory activity, since these are important properties of sources of nutraceuticals or functional foods. The stems contained more ascorbic acid (0.06 g kg(-1) fresh weight), protein (28.18 g kg(-1) dry weight (DW)), reducing sugars (308.54 g kg(-1) DW), water-soluble pectin (20.63 g kg(-1) DW), Na(2) CO(3) -soluble pectin (44.14 g kg(-1) DW), K (8 g kg(-1) dry matter (DM), S (6 g kg(-1) DM) and P (5 g kg(-1) DM) but less starch, total dietary fibre, Si, Na and Ca than the leaf sheaths. The DPPH free radical-scavenging IC(50) values of the stem and leaf sheath extracts were 19.28 and 21.22 mg mL(-1) respectively. In addition, the ACE-inhibitory IC(50) value of the stem extracts was 38.54 mg mL(-1). Both the stem and leaf sheath extracts exhibited good antioxidant properties, while good ACE-inhibitory activity was detected only in the phosphate buffer solution extracts of the stem. Few-flower wild rice could be processed into formula feeds for fish, poultry, etc. or functional foods for persons with high blood pressure.
21815607	The aim of this work was to compare the effects of incorporated wheat storage proteins on the functional properties of rice and wheat flours. The advantage of rice as a base flour compared to wheat is that it does not contain any wheat flour components and, therefore, has no interactive effect between wheat glutenin proteins. The incorporation of individual HMW glutenin subunit proteins (Bx6, Bx7, and By8) in different ratios had significant positive effects on the mixing requirements of both rice and wheat doughs. Reconstitution experiments using two x+y type HMW-GS pairs together with a bacterially expressed LMW-GS have been also carried out in this study. The largest effects of polymer formation and mixing properties of rice flour dough were observed when Bx and By subunits were used in a 1:1 ratio and HMW and LMW glutenin subunits in a 1:3 ratio. However, using the same subunit ratios in wheat as the base flour, these synergistic effects were not observed.
21817331	The effect of Co substitution for Cu on the structure and physical properties of Sr(14)(Cu(1-x)Co(x))(24)O(41) compounds was studied by analyzing the selected-area electron diffraction and convergent-beam electron diffraction patterns, and by measuring the magnetic susceptibility, the electrical resistivity and Raman spectra. It is found that the space group of the CuO(2) chain is changed from Amma to Ammm upon Co doping, but the structure of the Cu(2)O(3) ladder remains unchanged. This indicates that the displacement between two neighboring CuO(2) chains has disappeared due to Co doping. Once a small amount of Co ions are doped into the compound, exceptional changes in the Weiss temperature and in the number of dimers occur. The remarkable increase in the absolute value of the Weiss temperature indicates that the antiferromagnetic interaction in CuO(2) chains becomes very strong due to Co doping. The increase in the Curie coefficient and the number of dimers implies that the Co doping causes Zhang-Rice singlets in the chains to be decoupled into free spins Cu(2+) and holes. Then, the free spins Cu(2+) are coupled into dimers, and the holes transfer from chains to ladders, which causes the resistivity to decrease when the Co dopant concentration is low (x<0.10). When the Co dopant concentration is high (x>0.10), some Co ions are directly substituted for the Cu ions in the ladders, which results in an increase in resistivity with increasing Co dopant content.
21817335	To address the incompatibility of Zhang-Rice singlet formation and the observed spin glass behavior, an effective model is proposed for the electronic behavior of cuprate materials. The model includes an antiferromagnetic interaction between the spin of the hole in a Zhang-Rice orbital and the spin of the hole on the corresponding copper site. While in the large interaction limit this recovers the t-J model, in the low energy limit the Zhang-Rice singlets are deformed. It is also shown that such deformation can induce random defect ferromagnetic (FM) bonds between adjacent local spins, an effect herein referred to as unusual double exchange, and then spin glass behavior shall result in the case of localized holes. A derivation of the model is also presented.
21818678	An assessment of the sensitivity of Anopheles gambiae s.l.to three pyrethroids (alphacypermethrin, permethrin, deltamethrin) and DDT has been carried out with a laboratory strain (Kisumu reference sensitive strain) and a wild strain (Tiassalékro strain) using larvae from an irrigated rice-growing area of Tiassalékro, located in the southern forest of Ivory Coast. The sensitivity tests were performed according to the standard WHO cylinder tests with adult female A. gambiae s.l. aged 2 to 4 days. The results showed that the strain of Tiassalékro is resistant to the three tested pyrethroids and DDT. The molecular forms M and S were identified, with a predominance of M form. The resistance mechanism involved is the Kdr mutation. In this region, control measures against malaria vectors by using bed nets impregnated with these insecticides or household sprays could be compromised.
21818852	We used proteomic analysis to determine the response of rice plant seedlings to drought-induced stress. The expression of 71 protein spots was significantly altered, and 60 spots were successfully identified. The greatest down-regulated protein functional category was translation. Up-regulated proteins were mainly related to protein folding and assembly. Additionally, many proteins involved in metabolism (e.g. carbohydrate metabolism) also showed differences in expression. cDNA microarray and GC-MS analysis showed 4756 differentially expressed mRNAs and 37 differentially expressed metabolites. Once these data were integrated with the proteomic analysis, we were able to elucidate the metabolic pathways affected by drought-induced stress. These results suggest that increased energy consumption from storage substances occurred during drought. In addition, increased expression of the enzymes involved in anabolic pathways corresponded with an increase in the content of six amino acids. We speculated that energy conversion from carbohydrates and/or fatty acids to amino acids was increased. Analysis of basic metabolism networks allowed us to understand how rice plants adjust to drought conditions.
21819655	Laboratory bioassays were conducted to assess pyrole chlorfenapyr as a potential grain protectant against adults of Rhyzopertha dominica, Sitophilus oryzae, Prostephanus truncatus, Tribolium confusum, and Liposcelis bostrychophila. Factors such as dose (0.01, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, and 10 ppm), exposure interval (7 and 14 days), temperature (20, 25, and 30°C), relative humidity (RH; 55 and 75%), and commodity (wheat, maize, barley, and paddy rice) were evaluated. Progeny production was assessed after 74 days of exposure. For L. bostrychophila and T. confusum the increase of dose increased mortality. After 7 or 14 days of exposure, mortality was low at doses of ≤ 1 ppm and did not exceed 23 or 36%, respectively, for L. bostrychophila or 13 or 58%, respectively, for T. confusum. After 14 days of exposure, mortality of S. oryzae at 30°C and 75% RH was 82.2%. Mortality of P. truncatus was considerably higher than that of the other species. At 0.5 ppm, mortality exceeded 81% after 7 days of exposure and 91% after 14 days of exposure. Progeny production of L. bostrychophila was extremely high. Very few progeny were found for T. confusum. For S. oryzae, offspring emergence was high, except at 20°C and 55% RH. For P. truncatus, progeny production in the treated maize was not avoided, even at 10 ppm. In the case of S. oryzae, at 0.1 ppm and after 14 days of exposure, mortality in wheat was higher than in the other three commodities. For R. dominica, mortality was low at 0.1 and 1 ppm for paddy rice but reached 74.4% in barley after 14 days of exposure. For T. confusum, mortality was low at 0.1 and 1 ppm in all commodities. For progeny production counts, for S. oryzae or R. dominica, adult emergence was higher in paddy rice than in the other three commodities. Finally, overall T. confusum progeny was low. Chlorfenapyr efficacy varied remarkably among the combinations tested, and it may be a viable grain protectant in combination with other insecticides.
21819870	A rapid and effective method for enantioselective determination of simeconazole enantiomers in food products (cucumber, tomato, apple, pear, wheat and rice) has been developed. The enantiomers were resolved by capillary gas chromatography (GC) using a commercial chiral column (BGB-172) and a temperature program from 150°C (held for 1 min) and then raised at 10°C min(-1) to 240°C (held for 10 min). This enantioselective gas chromatographic separation was combined with a clean-up/enrichment procedure based on the modification of QuEChERS (quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged and safe) method. Co-extractives were removed with graphitized carbon black/primary secondary amine (GCB/PSA) solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridges using acetonitrile:toluene (3:1, v/v) as eluent. Gas chromatography/ion trap mass spectrometry (GC-ITMS) with electron ionization (EI) was then used for qualitative and quantitative determination of the simeconazole enantiomers. Two precursor-to-product ion transitions (m/z 121-101 and 195-153) with the best signal intensity were chosen to build the multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM) acquisition method. The limits of detection for each enantiomer of simeconazole in six food products ranged between 0.4 and 0.9 μg kg(-1), which were much lower than maximum residue levels (MRLs) established by Japan. The methodology was successfully applied for the enantioselective analysis of simeconazole enantiomers in real samples, indicating its efficacy in investigating the environmental stereochemistry of simeconazole in food matrix.
21820897	Steam reforming of two kinds of bio-oil from rice husks fast pyrolysis was conducted for hydrogen production at three temperatures (650, 750 and 850 °C) with Ni-based catalyst in a fixed-bed reactor. The gas composition and organic compounds in liquid condensate were detected by gas chromatography (GC) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), respectively. In addition, the carbon deposition was also investigated. The results showed that the mole fraction range of hydrogen was within 55.8-61.3% at all temperatures and more hydrogen was produced at the higher temperature. The highest H₂ efficiency of bio-oil steam reforming was 45.33% when extra water was added. The bio-oil with lower content of chemical compounds has a higher H₂ efficiency, but its hydrogen volume was less. Analysis of the liquid condensate showed that most of the organic compounds were circularity compounds. The carbon deposition can decrease the bio-oil conversion, and it was easier to form at the temperature of 750 °C.
21821426	Sulfurtransferases (Str) comprise a group of enzymes widely distributed in archaea, eubacteria, and eukaryota which catalyze the transfer of a sulfur atom from suitable sulfur donors to nucleophilic sulfur acceptors. Neither the in vivo sulfur donors nor the acceptors of Str could be clearly identified in any of the organisms investigated so far. In Oryza sativa L. 24 Str (OsStr) encoding genes have been identified and subdivided into six groups according to their sequence homology. To half of the Oryza Str a direct homolog and to 40% at least a similar protein in Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. could be allocated. Only the group comprising two-domain Str contains more Oryza Str than Arabidopsis Str. According to EST abundance analysis most of the OsStr mRNAs accumulate in several plant tissues. OsStr22, the homolog to the best characterized Str1 from Arabidopsis (AtStr1), shows the highest expression in middle-aged plants whereas AtStr1 shows the highest expression in senescent plants. Heterologously expressed and purified OsStr22 shows very low enzyme activity in comparison to the Arabidopsis and the Brassica napus L. Str. The data obtained so far constitute the basis to analyze differences among the Str family from monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants.
21821938	Biomass properties of rice straws were compared among eight cultivars that formed a mini diverse set. The ethanol productivity from rice straws was evaluated employing a laboratory-scale method based on dilute acid-hydrolysis pretreatment. The results indicated significant variation in biomass properties among the cultivars.
21822061	Cell wall-related nucleotide sugar transporters (NSTs) theoretically supply the cytosolic nucleotide sugars for glycosyltransferases (GTs) to carry out ploysaccharide synthesis and modification in the Golgi apparatus. However, the regulation of cell wall synthesis by NSTs remains undescribed. Recently, we have reported the functional characterization of Oryza sativa nucleotide sugar transport (Osnst1) mutant and its corresponding gene. OsNST1/BC14 is localized in the Golgi apparatus and transports UDP-glucose. This mutant provides us with a unique opportunity for evaluation of its abroad impacts on cell wall structure and components. We previously examined cell wall composition of bc14 and wild type plants. Here, the spatial distribution of these cell wall alterations was analyzed by immunolabeling approach. Analysis of the sugar yield in different cell wall fractions indicated that this mutation improves the extractability of cell wall components. Field emission scanning electron microscopy further showed that the orientation of microfibrils in bc14 is irregular when compared to that in wild type. Therefore, this UDP-glucose transporter, making substrates available for polysaccharide biosynthesis, plays a critical role in maintaining cell wall integrity.
21822909	We investigated whether treatment with gliadin induces a paracellular permeability defect that enhances bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) via resident dendritic cells (DC) expressing TLR-2 or 4 in HCD4/HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice. HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice were sensitized and subsequently gavaged with gliadin, in the presence or absence of AT1001 (paracellular permeability inhibitor). Non-sensitized mice were gavaged with indomethacin (permeability inducer) or rice cereal. CD11c and CD103 (DC markers) and TLR-2 and 4 were investigated by immunostaining. Intestinal permeability was assessed by paracellular flux of (51)Cr-EDTA in Ussing chambers. Bacterial translocation to MLN was performed by plate counting on aerobic and anaerobic conditions. In gliadin-treated mice, both (51)Cr-EDTA flux in jejunal mucosa and aerobic and anaerobic bacterial counts in MLN were increased (p < 0.05) compared to indomethacin-treated mice and controls. The inhibitor AT1001 normalized (51)Cr-EDTA flux, but had no effect on bacterial translocation in gliadin-treated mice. In addition, changes in mucosal DC marker distribution such as increased (p < 0.05) trans-epithelial CD103(+) cells and reduction (p < 0.05) of CD11c immunostaining were detected in gliadin-treated mice. Moreover, changes in DC markers and TLR-2 or 4 immunophenotypes were not associated. Pharmacological restoration of paracellular permeability was not sufficient to prevent bacterial translocation in gluten-sensitive mice. We hypothesize that transcellular mechanisms involving CD103(+)DC and CD11c(+)DC may explain in gluten-sensitive HCD4/HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice the sustained increased bacterial translocation observed in the absence of a significant inflammatory response.
21823570	Using (14)C- and (13)C-ring-labeling, degradation of five p-nonylphenol (4-NP) isomers including four branched (4-NP(38), 4-NP(65), 4-NP(111), and 4-NP(112)) and one linear (4-NP(1)) isomers in a rice paddy soil was studied under oxic conditions. Degradation followed an availability-adjusted first-order kinetics with the decreasing order of half-life 4-NP(111) (10.3 days) > 4-NP(112) (8.4 days) > 4-NP(65) (5.8 days) > 4-NP(38) (2.1 days) > 4-NP(1) (1.4 days), which is in agreement with the order of their reported estrogenicities. One metabolite of 4-NP(111) with less polarity than the parent compound occurred rapidly and remained stable in the soil. At the end of incubation (58 days), bound residues of 4-NP(111) amounted to 54% of the initially applied radioactivity and resided almost exclusively in the humin fraction of soil organic matter, in which chemically humin-bound residues increased over incubation. Our results indicate an increase of specific estrogenicity of the remaining 4-NPs in soil as a result of the isomer-specific degradation and therefore underline the importance of understanding the individual fate (including degradation, metabolism, and bound-residue formation) of isomers for risk assessment of 4-NPs in soil. 4-NP(1) should not be used as a representative of 4-NPs for studies on their environmental behavior.
21823826	Retrotransposons are ubiquitous in higher plant genomes. The presence or absence of retrotransposons in whole genome and high throughput genomic sequence (HTGS) from cultivated and wild rice was investigated to understand the organization and evolution of retrotransposon insertions in promoter regions. Approximately half of the Oryza sativa subsp. japonica 'Nipponbare' promoters with retrotransposons conserved in Oryza sativa subsp. indica '93-11' and four wild rice species showed higher sequence conservation in retrotransposon than nonretrotransposon regions. We further investigated, in detail, the evolutionary dynamics of five retrotransposons in the promoter regions of 95 rice genotypes. Our data suggest that four of five insertions (Rp2-Rp5) occurred in the ancestor of AA genome, while the other insertion (Rp1) predates the ancestral divergence of Oryza officinalis (CC genome). Four retrotransposons (Rp2-Rp5) were present in 52% (Rp2), 29% (Rp3), 53% (Rp4), and 43% (Rp5) of the rice genotypes with AA genome type, and the fifth retrotransposon (Rp1) was present in 95% of the rice genotypes with AA, BBCC, or CC genome types. Furthermore, most of these retrotransposons were found to evolve slower than flanking promoter regions, suggesting a role in promoter function for regulating downstream genes.
21824632	Arabinoxylans may account for up to 25% of the mass of grass cell walls. The interactions of these polysaccharides with themselves and with cellulose and lignin is believed to affect the walls physical properties and increase the walls resistance to biochemical conversion to fermentable sugars. Arabinoxylans have a backbone composed of 1,4-linked β-D-xylosyl residues, some of which are substituted at O-2 or O-3 with single arabinofuranosyl (Araf) residues. The Araf residues are likely transferred from UDP-Araf to the xylan backbone by arabinofuranosyltransferases. UDP-Araf is itself formed from UDP-arabinopyranose (UDP-Arap) by UDP-arabinopyranose mutase (UAM). In this study, RNA interference (RNAi) was used to suppress UAM expression in rice plants and thereby reduce the amounts of UDP-Araf available for cell wall synthesis. Several of the transgenic plants had reduced proportions of Araf in their walls together with a decrease in the extent of substitution of the xylan backbone, and a reduction of between 25% and 80% in ferulic acid and p-coumaric acid contents of the cell walls. Those transgenic plants with >25% reduction in the amounts of Araf were dwarfed and infertile.
21824678	A considerable increase in the concentration of raffinose was detected in rice seedlings exposed to chilling for more than 4 days. The content of raffinose in leaf blades increased from hardly detectable levels (0-1 days) to approximately 9 mg/g FW after 11 days of chilling treatment. Accumulation occurred in leaf blades but not in sheaths. Analysis of the expression of candidate genes related to galactinol and raffinose synthesis revealed that transcript levels of two galactinol synthase and four raffinose synthase genes increased in leaf blades before the accumulation of raffinose became detectable.
21824801	Stamen development is governed by a conserved genetic pathway, within which the role of hormones has been the subject of considerable recent research. Our understanding of the involvement of gibberellin (GA) signalling in this developmental process is further advanced than for the other phytohormones, and here we review recent experimental results in rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that have provided insight into the timing and mechanisms of GA regulation of stamen development, identifying the tapetum and developing pollen as major targets. GA signalling governs both tapetum secretory functions and entry into programmed cell death via the GAMYB class of transcription factor, the targets of which integrate with the established genetic framework for the regulation of tapetum function at multiple hierarchical levels.
21824995	The incompleteness of proteome structure and function annotation is a critical problem for biologists and, in particular, severely limits interpretation of high-throughput and next-generation experiments. We have developed a proteome annotation pipeline based on structure prediction, where function and structure annotations are generated using an integration of sequence comparison, fold recognition, and grid-computing-enabled de novo structure prediction. We predict protein domain boundaries and three-dimensional (3D) structures for protein domains from 94 genomes (including human, Arabidopsis, rice, mouse, fly, yeast, Escherichia coli, and worm). De novo structure predictions were distributed on a grid of more than 1.5 million CPUs worldwide (World Community Grid). We generated significant numbers of new confident fold annotations (9% of domains that are otherwise unannotated in these genomes). We demonstrate that predicted structures can be combined with annotations from the Gene Ontology database to predict new and more specific molecular functions.
21825104	Rice (Oryza sativa) glutelins are synthesized on the endoplasmic reticulum as larger precursors, which are then transported via the Golgi to the protein storage vacuole (PSV), where they are processed into acidic and basic subunits. Three independent glutelin precursor mutant4 (glup4) rice lines, which accumulated elevated levels of proglutelin over the wild type, were identified as loss-of-function mutants of Rab5a, the small GTPase involved in vesicular membrane transport. In addition to the plasma membrane, Rab5a colocalizes with glutelins on the Golgi apparatus, Golgi-derived dense vesicles, and the PSV, suggesting that Rab5a participates in the transport of the proglutelin from the Golgi to the PSV. This spatial distribution pattern was dramatically altered in the glup4 mutants. Numerous smaller protein bodies containing glutelin and α-globulin were evident, and the proteins were secreted extracellularly. Moreover, all three independent glup4 allelic lines displayed the novel appearance of a large dilated, structurally complex paramural body containing proglutelins, α-globulins, membrane biomarkers for the Golgi apparatus, prevacuolar compartment, PSV, and the endoplasmic reticulum luminal chaperones BiP and protein disulfide isomerase as well as β-glucan. These results indicate that the formation of the paramural bodies in glup4 endosperm was due to a significant disruption of endocytosis and membrane vesicular transport by Rab5a loss of function. Overall, Rab5a is required not only for the intracellular transport of proglutelins from the Golgi to the PSV in rice endosperm but also in the maintenance of the general structural organization of the endomembrane system in developing rice seeds.
21825717	Zirconium oxide (ZrO(2)) nanostructures were synthesized by a hydrothermal route. Surface morphology analysis depicts the formation of rice-grain-like and fiber-like ZrO(2) nanostructures at different synthesis conditions. The structural analysis confirms that the as-synthesized ZrO(2) product is of pure monoclinic phase (m-ZrO(2)). The clear and equally spaced lattice fringes in high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images and discrete spot pattern of selected area electron diffraction (SAED) confirm the high quality of the synthesized product. The product consists of monodispersed nanoparticles of uniform composition, high purity, and crystallinity. The Raman spectra are quantitatively analyzed and the observed peaks are attributed to various vibration modes of m-ZrO(2).
21827426	Much has been now recognized on the rice (Oryza sativa L.) proteomics by using the powerful experimental tool two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). 2D-PAGE can be utilized for monitoring global changes of quantitative protein expression in specific tissues under various conditions. However, systematic annotations of the protein spots generated by 2D-PAGE are still limited for rice. In this study, a new approach for Oryza sativa proteome annotation based on the 2D-gel maps was developed. Based on the publicly available 2D-PAGE data of rice, 11,201 gel spots were annotated accounting for 87.2% of the total spots on the gel maps. Gel spot alignments were performed for the annotated gel maps belonging to 23 rice tissues or organelles. In summary, 253 alignments between 23 tissues or organelles were performed, and 26,207 co-expressed proteins were identified using our analytical strategy. Large-scale bi-cluster analysis of 23 tissues/organelles proteomes of rice was carried out to detect novel functional proteins. Function and pathway analysis identified a number of common gene products with great potential in regulating specific physiological and biochemical events within various rice tissues/organelles. It also suggested that the tissue- or organelle-specific proteins might be responsible for the functional divergence of these tissues or organelles. Taken together, this study provides us new strategies and informative resources for rice proteome research based on 2D-PAGE data.
21828106	Plant roots play important roles not only in the absorption of water and nutrients, but also in stress tolerance. Previously, we identified RSOsPR10 as a root-specific pathogenesis-related (PR) protein induced by drought and salt treatments in rice. Transcripts and proteins of RSOsPR10 were strongly induced by jasmonate (JA) and the ethylene (ET) precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), while salicylic acid (SA) almost completely suppressed these inductions. Immunohistochemical analyses showed that RSOsPR10 strongly accumulated in cortex cells surrounding the vascular system of roots, and this accumulation was also suppressed when SA was applied simultaneously with stress or hormone treatments. In the JA-deficient mutant hebiba, RSOsPR10 expression was up-regulated by NaCl, wounding, drought and exogenous application of JA. This suggested the involvement of a signal transduction pathway that integrates JA and ET signals in plant defense responses. Expression of OsERF1, a transcription factor in the JA/ET pathway, was induced earlier than that of RSOsPR10 after salt, JA and ACC treatments. Simultaneous SA treatment strongly inhibited the induction of RSOsPR10 expression and, to a lesser extent, induction of OsERF1 expression. These results suggest that JA/ET and SA pathways function in the stress-responsive induction of RSOsPR10, and that OsERF1 may be one of the transcriptional factors in the JA/ET pathway.
21829350	Magnaporthe oryzae is the causal agent of rice blast disease, a devastating problem worldwide. This fungus has caused breakdown of resistance conferred by newly developed commercial cultivars. To address how the rice blast fungus adapts itself to new resistance genes so quickly, we examined chromosomal locations of AVR-Pita, a subtelomeric gene family corresponding to the Pita resistance gene, in various isolates of M. oryzae (including wheat and millet pathogens) and its related species. We found that AVR-Pita (AVR-Pita1 and AVR-Pita2) is highly variable in its genome location, occurring in chromosomes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and supernumerary chromosomes, particularly in rice-infecting isolates. When expressed in M. oryzae, most of the AVR-Pita homologs could elicit Pita-mediated resistance, even those from non-rice isolates. AVR-Pita was flanked by a retrotransposon, which presumably contributed to its multiple translocation across the genome. On the other hand, family member AVR-Pita3, which lacks avirulence activity, was stably located on chromosome 7 in a vast majority of isolates. These results suggest that the diversification in genome location of AVR-Pita in the rice isolates is a consequence of recognition by Pita in rice. We propose a model that the multiple translocation of AVR-Pita may be associated with its frequent loss and recovery mediated by its transfer among individuals in asexual populations. This model implies that the high mobility of AVR-Pita is a key mechanism accounting for the rapid adaptation toward Pita. Dynamic adaptation of some fungal plant pathogens may be achieved by deletion and recovery of avirulence genes using a population as a unit of adaptation.
21829379	Photosynthesis is the final determinator for crop yield. To gain insight into genes controlling photosynthetic capacity, we selected from our large T-DNA mutant population a rice stunted growth mutant with decreased carbon assimilate and yield production named photoassimilate defective1 (phd1). Molecular and biochemical analyses revealed that PHD1 encodes a novel chloroplast-localized UDP-glucose epimerase (UGE), which is conserved in the plant kingdom. The chloroplast localization of PHD1 was confirmed by immunoblots, immunocytochemistry, and UGE activity in isolated chloroplasts, which was approximately 50% lower in the phd1-1 mutant than in the wild type. In addition, the amounts of UDP-glucose and UDP-galactose substrates in chloroplasts were significantly higher and lower, respectively, indicating that PHD1 was responsible for a major part of UGE activity in plastids. The relative amount of monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG), a major chloroplast membrane galactolipid, was decreased in the mutant, while the digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) amount was not significantly altered, suggesting that PHD1 participates mainly in UDP-galactose supply for MGDG biosynthesis in chloroplasts. The phd1 mutant showed decreased chlorophyll content, photosynthetic activity, and altered chloroplast ultrastructure, suggesting that a correct amount of galactoglycerolipids and the ratio of glycolipids versus phospholipids are necessary for proper chloroplast function. Downregulated expression of starch biosynthesis genes and upregulated expression of sucrose cleavage genes might be a result of reduced photosynthetic activity and account for the decreased starch and sucrose levels seen in phd1 leaves. PHD1 overexpression increased photosynthetic efficiency, biomass, and grain production, suggesting that PHD1 plays an important role in supplying sufficient galactolipids to thylakoid membranes for proper chloroplast biogenesis and photosynthetic activity. These findings will be useful for improving crop yields and for bioenergy crop engineering.
21829395	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a primary limitation to crop productivity on acid soils, and rice has been demonstrated to be significantly more Al tolerant than other cereal crops. However, the mechanisms of rice Al tolerance are largely unknown, and no genes underlying natural variation have been reported. We screened 383 diverse rice accessions, conducted a genome-wide association (GWA) study, and conducted QTL mapping in two bi-parental populations using three estimates of Al tolerance based on root growth. Subpopulation structure explained 57% of the phenotypic variation, and the mean Al tolerance in Japonica was twice that of Indica. Forty-eight regions associated with Al tolerance were identified by GWA analysis, most of which were subpopulation-specific. Four of these regions co-localized with a priori candidate genes, and two highly significant regions co-localized with previously identified QTLs. Three regions corresponding to induced Al-sensitive rice mutants (ART1, STAR2, Nrat1) were identified through bi-parental QTL mapping or GWA to be involved in natural variation for Al tolerance. Haplotype analysis around the Nrat1 gene identified susceptible and tolerant haplotypes explaining 40% of the Al tolerance variation within the aus subpopulation, and sequence analysis of Nrat1 identified a trio of non-synonymous mutations predictive of Al sensitivity in our diversity panel. GWA analysis discovered more phenotype-genotype associations and provided higher resolution, but QTL mapping identified critical rare and/or subpopulation-specific alleles not detected by GWA analysis. Mapping using Indica/Japonica populations identified QTLs associated with transgressive variation where alleles from a susceptible aus or indica parent enhanced Al tolerance in a tolerant Japonica background. This work supports the hypothesis that selectively introgressing alleles across subpopulations is an efficient approach for trait enhancement in plant breeding programs and demonstrates the fundamental importance of subpopulation in interpreting and manipulating the genetics of complex traits in rice.
21829493	Cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.), a widely cultivated crop, has originated from Eastern Himalayas and secondary domestication regions includes highly divergent climate conditions e.g. temperate and subtropical. We wanted to uncover adaptive genome differences between the cucumber cultivars and what sort of evolutionary molecular mechanisms regulate genetic adaptation of plants to different ecosystems and organism biodiversity. Here we present the draft genome sequence of the Cucumis sativus genome of the North-European Borszczagowski cultivar (line B10) and comparative genomics studies with the known genomes of: C. sativus (Chinese cultivar--Chinese Long (line 9930)), Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa and Oryza sativa. Cucumber genomes show extensive chromosomal rearrangements, distinct differences in quantity of the particular genes (e.g. involved in photosynthesis, respiration, sugar metabolism, chlorophyll degradation, regulation of gene expression, photooxidative stress tolerance, higher non-optimal temperatures tolerance and ammonium ion assimilation) as well as in distributions of abscisic acid-, dehydration- and ethylene-responsive cis-regulatory elements (CREs) in promoters of orthologous group of genes, which lead to the specific adaptation features. Abscisic acid treatment of non-acclimated Arabidopsis and C. sativus seedlings induced moderate freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis but not in C. sativus. This experiment together with analysis of abscisic acid-specific CRE distributions give a clue why C. sativus is much more susceptible to moderate freezing stresses than A. thaliana. Comparative analysis of all the five genomes showed that, each species and/or cultivars has a specific profile of CRE content in promoters of orthologous genes. Our results constitute the substantial and original resource for the basic and applied research on environmental adaptations of plants, which could facilitate creation of new crops with improved growth and yield in divergent conditions.
21829548	We report complete genome sequence of a mesophilic hydrogenotrophic methanogen Methanocella paludicola, the first cultured representative of the order Methanocellales once recognized as an uncultured key archaeal group for methane emission in rice fields. The genome sequence of M. paludicola consists of a single circular chromosome of 2,957,635 bp containing 3004 protein-coding sequences (CDS). Genes for most of the functions known in the methanogenic archaea were identified, e.g. a full complement of hydrogenases and methanogenesis enzymes. The mixotrophic growth of M. paludicola was clarified by the genomic characterization and re-examined by the subsequent growth experiments. Comparative genome analysis with the previously reported genome sequence of RC-I(MRE50), which was metagenomically reconstructed, demonstrated that about 70% of M. paludicola CDSs were genetically related with RC-I(MRE50) CDSs. These CDSs included the genes involved in hydrogenotrophic methane production, incomplete TCA cycle, assimilatory sulfate reduction and so on. However, the genetic components for the carbon and nitrogen fixation and antioxidant system were different between the two Methanocellales genomes. The difference is likely associated with the physiological variability between M. paludicola and RC-I(MRE50), further suggesting the genomic and physiological diversity of the Methanocellales methanogens. Comparative genome analysis among the previously determined methanogen genomes points to the genome-wide relatedness of the Methanocellales methanogens to the orders Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales methanogens in terms of the genetic repertoire. Meanwhile, the unique evolutionary history of the Methanocellales methanogens is also traced in an aspect by the comparative genome analysis among the methanogens.
2182984	Dietary changes a hundred years ago in Europe, America and Australia were needed to feed their growing industrial populations. By 1909 margarines were first made by the hydrogenation of marine oils and, later, vegetable oils as a substitute for butter, thereby introducing saturated fats. The demise of the highly nutritious herring and its oil's hydrogenation into margarines seems to have coincided with a big increase in coronary heart disease (CHD). The Japanese escaped such changes to their rice diet by the influence of the inevitable annual monsoon while southern Europe's CHD immunity may hinge on its permanent olive oil and vitamin C antioxidant staples. Britain's 'angina pectoris' probably arose following the enclosures which changed arable (strip) into animal farming in the middle ages but cases rose only slowly from Heberden's 100 in 1802 to McKenzie's 200 by 1923. It seems likely, therefore, that much of the sudden increase to 2000 reported by Maurice Cassidy in 1945, despite the impact of this century's increased longevity on CHD, will be due to dietary change together with smoking's increasing impact.
21830109	Leaf size is a major determinant of plant architecture and yield potential in crops. A previous study showed that the genomic region of chromosome 1 contains a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) for flag leaf size in a set of backcross recombinant inbred lines derived from two elite parental lines (Zhenshan 97 and 93-11). In the present study, the QTL (qFL1) was shown to explain a large proportion of the variation in flag leaf size (leaf length, width and area) in derived populations (BC(2)F(3) and BC(3)F(2)) in multiple environments. Using a large segregating population, we narrowed the location of qFL1 to a 31 kb region containing four predicted genes. Expression of one of these genes, OsFTL1, differed between leaves in near-isogenic lines carrying alleles of Zhenshan 97 and 93-11. qFL1 had a pleiotropic effect on flag leaf size and yield-related traits. Conditional QTL analysis of the derived population (BC(3)F(2)) supports the assertion that qFL1 is the QTL for flag leaf length and exhibits pleiotropy. Pyramiding of qFL1 with two known genes (GS3 and Wx) from 93-11 into Zhenshan 97 enlarged flag leaves, improved grain size and amylose content, and increased yield per plant, but slightly delayed heading date. These results provide a foundation for the functional characterization of the gene underlying the pleiotropic effects of qFL1 and for genetic improvement of the plant architecture and yield potential of rice.
21830130	Heading date in rice is an important agronomic trait controlled by several genes. In this study, flowering time of variety Dianjingyou 1 (DJY1) was earlier than a near-isogenic line (named NIL) carried chromosome segment from African rice on chromosome 3S, when grown in both long-day (LD) and short-day (SD) conditions. By analyzing a large F2 population from NIL × DJY1, the locus DTH3 (QTL for days to heading on chromosome 3) controlling early heading date in DJY1 was fine mapped to a 64-kb segment which contained only one annotated gene, a MIKC-type MADS-box protein. We detected a 6-bp deletion and a single base substitution in the C-domain by sequencing DTH3 in DJY1 compared with dth3 in NIL, and overexpression of DTH3 caused early flowering in callus. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed that the transcript level of dth3 in NIL was lower than that DTH3 in DJY1 in both LD and SD conditions. The Early heading date 1 (Ehd1) which promotes the RFT1, was up-regulated by DTH3 in both LD and SD conditions. Based on Indel and dCAPs marker analysis, the dth3 allele was only present in African rice accessions. A phylogenetic analysis based on microsatellite genotyping suggested that African rice had a close genetic relationship to O. rufipogon and O. latifolia, and was similar to japonica cultivars. DTH3 affected flowering time and had no significant effect on the main agronomic traits.
21830204	To develop a Trichoderma reesei strain appropriate for the saccharification of pretreated cellulosic biomass, a recombinant T. reesei strain, X3AB1, was constructed that expressed an Aspergillus aculeatus β-glucosidase 1 with high specific activity under the control of the xyn3 promoter. The culture supernatant from T. reesei X3AB1 grown on 1% Avicel as a carbon source had 63- and 25-fold higher β-glucosidase activity against cellobiose compared to that of the parent strain PC-3-7 and that of the T. reesei recombinant strain expressing an endogenous β-glucosidase I, respectively. Further, the xylanase activity was 30% lower than that of PC-3-7 due to the absence of xyn3. X3AB1 grown on 1% Avicel-0.5% xylan medium produced 2.3- and 3.3-fold more xylanase and β-xylosidase, respectively, than X3AB1 grown on 1% Avicel. The supernatant from X3AB1 grown on Avicel and xylan saccharified NaOH-pretreated rice straw efficiently at a low enzyme dose, indicating that the strain has good potential for use in cellulosic biomass conversion processes.
21830711	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) comprise one of the main components of soil microbiota in most agroecosystems. These obligate mutualistic symbionts colonize the roots of most plants, including crop plants. Many papers have indicated that different crop management practices could affect AMF communities and their root colonization. However, there is little knowledge available on the influence of conventional and low-input agriculture on root colonization and AMF molecular diversity in rice fields. Two different agroecosystems (continuous conventional high-input rice monocropping and organic farming with a five-year crop rotation) and two different water management regimes have been considered in this study. Both morphological and molecular analyses were performed. The soil mycorrhizal potential, estimated using clover trap cultures, was high and similar in the two agroecosystems. The diversity of the AMF community in the soil, calculated by means of PCR-RFLP (polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism) and 18S rDNA sequencing on clover trap cultures roots, was higher for the organic cultivation. The rice roots cultivated in the conventional agrosystem or under permanent flooding showed no AMF colonization, while the rice plants grown under the organic agriculture system showed typical mycorrhization patterns. Considered together, our data suggest that a high-input cropping system and conventional flooding depress AMF colonization in rice roots and that organic managements could help maintain a higher diversity of AMF communities in soil.
21831212	Ethylene responsive factors (ERFs) are a large family of plant-specific transcription factors that are involved in the regulation of plant development and stress responses. However, little to nothing is known about their role in herbivore-induced defense. We discovered a nucleus-localized ERF gene in rice (Oryza sativa), OsERF3, that was rapidly up-regulated in response to feeding by the rice striped stem borer (SSB) Chilo suppressalis. Antisense and over-expression of OsERF3 revealed that it positively affects transcript levels of two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and two WRKY genes as well as concentrations of jasmonate (JA), salicylate (SA) and the activity of trypsin protease inhibitors (TrypPIs). OsERF3 was also found to mediate the resistance of rice to SSB. On the other hand, OsERF3 was slightly suppressed by the rice brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) and increased susceptibility to this piercing sucking insect, possibly by suppressing H(2)O(2) biosynthesis. We propose that OsERF3 affects early components of herbivore-induced defense responses by suppressing MAPK repressors and modulating JA, SA, ethylene and H(2)O(2) pathways as well as plant resistance. Our results also illustrate that OsERF3 acts as a central switch that gears the plant's metabolism towards an appropriate response to chewing or piercing/sucking insects.
21831261	During Ramadan fast, approximately one billion Muslims abstain from food and fluid between the hours of sunrise to sunset, and usually eat a large meal after sunset and another meal before sunrise. Many studies reported good health-related outcomes of fasting including weight loss. The objective of this study is to identify the local pattern of expenditure on food consumption, dietary habits during Ramadan and correlate that to self-reported weight gain after Ramadan in a group of families in Jeddah, Western Saudi Arabia. A Cross-section study using a pre-designed questionnaire to identify the local pattern of expenditure on food consumption, dietary habits during Ramadan and correlate that to self-reported weight gain after Ramadan in a representative cohort of Saudis living in Jeddah. It was piloted on 173 nutrition students and administered by them to their families. A total of 173 Saudi families were interviewed. One out of 5 indicated that their expenditure increases during Ramadan. Approximately two thirds of the respondents (59.5%) reported weight gain after Ramadan. When asked about their perspective explanations for that: 40% attributed that to types of foods being rich in fat and carbohydrates particularly date in (Sunset meal) 97.7% and rice in (Dawn meal) 80.9%. One third (31.2%) indicated that it was due to relative lack of physical exercise in Ramadan and 14.5% referred that to increase in food consumption. Two thirds (65.2%) of those with increased expenditure reported weight gain. Surprisingly weight gain and not weight loss was reported after Ramadan by Saudis which indicates timely needed life-style and dietary modification programs for a population which reports one of the highest prevalence rates of diabetes.
21831477	Plants react to microbial attack with a number of defense mechanisms, including the synthesis of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). These responses are triggered by elicitors derived from either the cell surface of pathogens or the incomplete hydrolysis of the plant cell wall. Here we show the response of rice (Oryza sativa L., cv Gigante Vercelli) cell cultures following treatment with cell wall hydrolysates prepared from the rice blast Magnaporthe oryzae. Elicitation prompted the production of several plant VOCs, which were analyzed by stir bar sorptive extraction from both the liquid and head-space phase (SBSE and HSSE, respectively) and gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. VOCs included alkanes, alkenes and long-chain alcohols as well as cinnamyl alcohol, myristicin, a sesquiterpene alcohol (caryolan-1-ol), 1-butanamide and 2-pentylfuran. The major released compounds, 1-octanol and 1-decanol, were found to induce ROS production in both elicited and non-elicited rice cells and showed fungistatic activity against the pathogen M. oryzae. The possible role of induced VOCs and ROS production in the plant-pathogen interaction is discussed.
21831630	A microbial consortium, designated WCS-6, was established by successive subcultivation in the presence of rice straw under static conditions. The degradation efficiencies of WSC-6 for 0.5 g filter paper, cotton and rice straw after 3 days of cultivation were 99.0±0.7%, 76.9±1.5% and 81.3±0.8%, respectively as determined by gravimetrical methods. Nine bacterial isolates were obtained from WCS-6 plated under aerobic conditions, and sequencing of their 16S rDNA indicated that these bacteria were related to Bacillus thermoamylovorans BTa, Paenibacillus barengoltzii SAFN-016, Proteobacterium S072, Pseudoxanthomonas taiwanensis CB-226, Rhizobiaceae str. M100, Bacillus sp. E53-10, Beta proteobacterium HMD444, Petrobacter succinimandens 4BON, and Tepidiphilus margaritifer N2-214. DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) and sequencing of 16S rDNA sequences amplified from total consortium DNA revealed the presence of sequences related to those of Ureibacillus thermosphaericus, uncultured bacterium clone GC3, uncultured Clostridium sp. clone A1-3, Clostridium thermobutyricum, and Clostridium thermosuccinogenes in addition to the sequences identified from the cultured bacteria. The microbial community identified herein is a potential candidate consortium for the degradation of waste lignocellulosic biomass.
21831743	Optimal high dose conditioning and relative roles of autologous stem cell transplantation (autoSCT) or allogeneic (alloSCT) for indolent lymphoma are uncertain. A prospective phase II study evaluated autoSCT and alloSCT depending on availability of sibling donor after uniform rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide (RICE) re-induction and novel myeloablative fludarabine, busulfan (FluBu) conditioning for patients with mantle cell lymphoma in first remission or first relapse, or indolent lymphoma in first or second relapse. The 68 patients (autoSCT, 36; syngeneic [syn], 1; alloSCT, 31) who were accrued had a 10-month median progression-free survival (PFS) after their last chemotherapy treatment. After RICE, the overall response rate was 69%, and 24 of 39 patients (62%) cleared marrow of lymphoma. Treatment-related mortality at 100 days and 1 year after FluBu were both 0% post-auto/synSCT, but were 6% and 26% post-alloSCT, respectively. At a median follow-up of 60 months, the respective 5-year overall survival and PFS rates were 71% and 46% for auto/synSCT, and were 58% and 47% for alloSCT. Quality of life assessment 1-year post-SCT favoured auto/synSCT. The protocol was feasible, FluBu was well-tolerated, and both auto/synSCT and alloSCT conferred similar 5-year PFS following the RICE-FluBu protocol.
21831990	Glycemic index (GI) testing is normally based on individual foods, whereas GIs for meals or diets are based on a formula using a weighted sum of the constituents. The accuracy with which the formula can predict a meal or diet GI is questionable. Our objective was to compare the GI of meals, obtained by using the formula and by using both measured food GI and published values, with directly measured meal GIs. The GIs of 7 foods were tested in 30 healthy people. The foods were combined into 3 meals, each of which provided 50 g available carbohydrate, including a staple (potato, rice, or spaghetti), vegetables, sauce, and pan-fried chicken. The mean (95% CI) meal GIs determined from individual food GI values and by direct measurement were as follows: potato meal [predicted, 63 (56, 70); measured, 53 (46, 62)], rice meal [predicted, 51 (45, 56); measured, 38 (33, 45)], and spaghetti meal [predicted, 54 (49, 60); measured, 38 (33, 44)]. The predicted meal GIs were all higher than the measured GIs (P < 0.001). The extent of the overestimation depended on the particular food, ie, 12, 15, and 19 GI units (or 22%, 40%, and 50%) for the potato, rice, and spaghetti meals, respectively. The formula overestimated the GI of the meals by between 22% and 50%. The use of published food values also overestimated the measured meal GIs. Investigators using the formula to calculate a meal or diet GI should be aware of limitations in the method. This trial is registered with the Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry as ACTRN12611000210976.
21832284	Plant phosphate transporter (PT) genes comprise a large family with important roles in various physiological and biochemical processes. In this study, a database search yielded 26 potential PT family genes in rice (Oryza sativa). Analysis of these genes led to identification of eight conserved motifs and 5-12 trans-membrane segments, most of them conserved. A total of 237 putative cis elements were found in the 2-kb upstream region of these genes. Of these, a majority were Pi-response and other stress-related cis regulatory elements, such as PHO-like, TATA-box-like, PHR1, or Helix-loop-helix elements, and WRKY1 and ABRE elements, suggesting gene regulation by these signals. Comprehensive expression analysis of these genes was performed using data from microarrays hybridized with RNA from 27 tissues covering the entire lifecycle from three rice genotypes: Minghui 63, Zhenshan 97, and Shanyou 63. Real-time PCR analysis confirmed that three rice PT genes are preferentially expressed in stamen at 1 d before flowering, two in panicle at the heading stage, and two in flag leaf at 14 d after the heading stage. Hormone-treatment experiments revealed differential up-regulation or down-regulation of 11 rice PT genes in seedlings exposed to five hormones, respectively. These results will be useful for elucidating the roles of these genes in the growth, development, and stress response of the rice plant.
21833086	Atmospheric methane (CH(4)) increased through much of the twentieth century, but this trend gradually weakened until a stable state was temporarily reached around the turn of the millennium, after which levels increased once more. The reasons for the slowdown are incompletely understood, with past work identifying changes in fossil fuel, wetland and agricultural sources and hydroxyl (OH) sinks as important causal factors. Here we show that the late-twentieth-century changes in the CH(4) growth rates are best explained by reduced microbial sources in the Northern Hemisphere. Our results, based on synchronous time series of atmospheric CH(4) mixing and (13)C/(12)C ratios and a two-box atmospheric model, indicate that the evolution of the mixing ratio requires no significant change in Southern Hemisphere sources between 1984 and 2005. Observed changes in the interhemispheric difference of (13)C effectively exclude reduced fossil fuel emissions as the primary cause of the slowdown. The (13)C observations are consistent with long-term reductions in agricultural emissions or another microbial source within the Northern Hemisphere. Approximately half (51 ± 18%) of the decrease in Northern Hemisphere CH(4) emissions can be explained by reduced emissions from rice agriculture in Asia over the past three decades associated with increases in fertilizer application and reductions in water use.
21834090	Carbofuran is a carbamate insecticide that inhibits AChE. Although toxic by ingestion in mammals, it has low dermal toxicity, with relatively few confirmed worker illnesses. This risk assessment describes its time of onset, time to peak effect and time to recovery in rats using brain AChE inhibition in acute and 21 day dermal studies; in vitro rat/human relative dermal absorption for granular (5G) and liquid (4F) formulations; occupational exposure estimates using the Pesticide Handlers' Exposure Database and Agricultural Handlers' Exposure Database (PHED/AHED). The point of departure for acute risk calculation (BMDL(10)) was 6.7 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for brain AChE inhibition after 6 h exposure. In a 21 day study, the BMDL(10) was 6.8 mg kg(-1) day(-1), indicating reversibility. At 75 mg kg(-1) day(-1), time of onset was ≤ 30 min and time to peak effect was 6-12 h. Rat skin had ca tenfold greater dermal absorption of carbofuran (Furadan(®) 5G or 4F) than human skin. Exposure estimates for 5G in rice and 4F in ten crops had adequate margins of exposure (>100). Rat dermal carbofuran toxicity was assessed in terms of dose and time-related inhibition of AChE. Comparative dermal absorption in rats was greater than in humans. Worker exposure estimates indicated acceptable risk for granular and liquid formulations of carbofuran.
21835010	Malaria is a major public health issue in Burundi in terms of both morbidity and mortality, with around 2.5 million clinical cases and more than 15,000 deaths each year. It is still the single main cause of mortality in pregnant women and children below five years of age. Because of the severe health and economic burden of malaria, there is still a growing need for methods that will help to understand the influencing factors. Several studies/researches have been done on the subject yielding different results as which factors are most responsible for the increase in malaria transmission. This paper considers the modelling of the dependence of malaria cases on spatial determinants and climatic covariates including rainfall, temperature and humidity in Burundi. The analysis carried out in this work exploits real monthly data collected in the area of Burundi over 12 years (1996-2007). Semi-parametric regression models are used. The spatial analysis is based on a geo-additive model using provinces as the geographic units of study. The spatial effect is split into structured (correlated) and unstructured (uncorrelated) components. Inference is fully Bayesian and uses Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques. The effects of the continuous covariates are modelled by cubic p-splines with 20 equidistant knots and second order random walk penalty. For the spatially correlated effect, Markov random field prior is chosen. The spatially uncorrelated effects are assumed to be i.i.d. Gaussian. The effects of climatic covariates and the effects of other spatial determinants are estimated simultaneously in a unified regression framework. The results obtained from the proposed model suggest that although malaria incidence in a given month is strongly positively associated with the minimum temperature of the previous months, regional patterns of malaria that are related to factors other than climatic variables have been identified, without being able to explain them. In this paper, semiparametric models are used to model the effects of both climatic covariates and spatial effects on malaria distribution in Burundi. The results obtained from the proposed models suggest a strong positive association between malaria incidence in a given month and the minimum temperature of the previous month. From the spatial effects, important spatial patterns of malaria that are related to factors other than climatic variables are identified. Potential explanations (factors) could be related to socio-economic conditions, food shortage, limited access to health care service, precarious housing, promiscuity, poor hygienic conditions, limited access to drinking water, land use (rice paddies for example), displacement of the population (due to armed conflicts).
21835275	For the first time, we studied the phytopathogenicity toward Oryza sativa L. of unadapted and adapted to unfavorable environment (starvation) cells of Acholeplasma laidlawii PG8--ubiquitous mycoplasma found in the soil, waste waters, tissues of the highest eukaryotes and being the basic contaminant of cell cultures and a causative agent of phytomycoplasmoses. The features of morphology, ultrastructural organization and proteomes of unadapted and adapted cells of the mycoplasma and infected plants were presented. Using 2D-DIGE and MS, 43 proteins of O. sativa L. that were differentially expressed in the leaves of plants cultivated in media with A. laidlawii PG8 were identified. The qualitative and quantitative responses of the plant proteome toward adapted and unadapted mycoplasma cells differed. That may be explained by differences in the virulence of the corresponding bacterial cells. Using 2D-DIGE and MS, 82 proteins that were differentially expressed in adapted and unadapted mycoplasma cells were detected. In adapted cells of the mycoplasma, in comparison with unadapted ones, a significant increase in the expression of PNPase--a global regulator of virulence in phytopathogenic bacteria occurred; there was also decreased expression of 40 proteins including 14 involved in bacterial virulence and the expression of 31 proteins including 5 involved in virulence was not detected. We propose that differences in the phytopathogenicity of adapted and unadapted A. laidlawii PG8 cells may be related to features of their proteomes and membrane vesicles.
21835518	Here we report the effects of three Bt-rice varieties and their non-Bt conventional isolines on biological traits including survival, reproduction, and the activities of three antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase and peroxidase, in the Collembolan, Folsomia candida. The reproduction was significantly lower when fed Kemingdao and Huahui1 than those feeding on their non-GM near-isogenic varieties Xiushui and Minghui63 respectively, this can be explained by the differences of plant compositions depended on variety of rice. The catalase activity of F. candida was significantly lower when fed the Bt-rice variety Kemingdao compared to the near-isogenic non-Bt-rice variety Xiushui. This suggests that some Bt-rice varieties may impose environmental stress to collembolans. We emphasize that changes in activity of antioxidant enzymes of non-target organisms are important in understanding the ecological consequences for organisms inhabiting transgenic Bt-rice plantations.
21835612	Various parameters were measured during the period of composting of dairy manure and rice chaff in different ratios (dairy manure/rice chaff=V/V, pile 1: 75/25; pile 2: 80/20; pile 3: 85/15) to evaluate their suitability as indicators for the composting process. The temperature in pile 1 increased rapidly and remained above 60 °C for 30 days, while the temperature in pile 3 increased slowly relative to the other two piles. Furthermore, the degradation of organic substrates, as indicated by the reduction of C/N ratio, was rapid in pile 1 (below 20% 28 days after beginning of the composting). The major fluctuations of various water-soluble fractions in all piles were observed during the first 3 weeks, and the results in general showed that the highest microbial populations and enzymatic activities also appeared in this phase. Various parameters indicated that the rapid composting method was a feasible one for treating agricultural wastes.
21836766	Twenty-one rice samples from field (ten), store (six) and market (five) from the traditional rice-growing areas of Niger State, Nigeria were analysed for aflatoxins (AFs), ochratoxin A (OTA), zearalenone (ZEA), deoxynivalenol (DON), fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) and B(2) (FB(2)), and patulin (PAT) by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) respectively. T-2 toxin was determined using TLC only. AFs were detected in all samples, at total AF concentrations of 28-372 μg/kg. OTA was found in 66.7% of the samples, also at high concentrations (134-341 μg/kg) that have to be considered as critical levels in aspects of nephrotoxicity. ZEA (53.4%), DON (23.8), FB(1) (14.3%) and FB(2) (4.8%) were also found in rice, although at relatively low levels. T-2 toxin was qualitatively detected by TLC in only one sample. Co-contamination with AFs, OTA, and ZEA was very common, and up to five mycotoxins were detected in a single sample. The high AF and OTA levels as found in rice in this study are regarded as unsafe, and multi-occurrences of mycotoxins in the rice samples with possible additive or synergistic toxic effects in consumers raise concern with respect to public health.
21838715	The genomes of cereals such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) are large and therefore problematic for the map-based cloning of agronomicaly important traits. However, comparative approaches within the Poaceae permit transfer of molecular knowledge between species, despite their divergence from a common ancestor sixty million years ago. The finding that null variants of the rice gene cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase 2 (OsCKX2) result in large yield increases provides an opportunity to explore whether similar gains could be achieved in other Poaceae members. Here, phylogenetic, molecular and comparative analyses of CKX families in the sequenced grass species rice, brachypodium, sorghum, maize and foxtail millet, as well as members identified from the transcriptomes/genomes of wheat and barley, are presented. Phylogenetic analyses define four Poaceae CKX clades. Comparative analyses showed that CKX phylogenetic groupings can largely be explained by a combination of local gene duplication, and the whole-genome duplication event that predates their speciation. Full-length OsCKX2 homologues in barley (HvCKX2.1, HvCKX2.2) and wheat (TaCKX2.3, TaCKX2.4, TaCKX2.5) are characterized, with comparative analysis at the DNA, protein and genetic/physical map levels suggesting that true CKX2 orthologs have been identified. Furthermore, our analysis shows CKX2 genes in barley and wheat have undergone a Triticeae-specific gene-duplication event. Finally, by identifying ten of the eleven CKX genes predicted to be present in barley by comparative analyses, we show that next-generation sequencing approaches can efficiently determine the gene space of large-genome crops. Together, this work provides the foundation for future functional investigation of CKX family members within the Poaceae.
21839389	Microorganisms associated with the fermentation of cotton seed and rice were studied using a combination of culture-dependent and -independent methods. Samples of the cotton seed and rice beverage were collected every 8 h during the fermentation process for analysis of the microbiota present over 48 h. The lactic acid bacteria (LAB) population reached values of approximately 8.0 log cfu/mL. A total of 162 bacteria and 81 yeast isolates were identified using polyphasic methods. LAB (Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus vermiforme, Lactobacillus paracasei) were the most frequently isolated bacteria. Bacillus subtilis was present from 16 h until the end of the fermentation process. A decrease in pH value from 6.92 (0 h) to 4.76 (48 h) was observed, and the concentration of lactic acid reached 24 g/L at the end of the fermentation process. DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) was performed to determine the dynamics of the communities of bacteria and yeast, and the analysis revealed a predominance of LAB throughout the fermentation process. No changes were observed in the yeast community. The yeast species detected were Candida parapsilosis, Candida orthopsilosis, Clavispora lusitaniae and Rhodotorula mucilaginosa. Our studies indicate that the DGGE technique combined with a culture-dependent method is required to discern the dynamics in the fermentation of cotton seed and rice.
21840614	The major objectives of this study were to determine the incidence, diversity and characteristics of Bacillus cereus group spp. isolated from food products marketed in Belgium. The food products investigated in this study included cooked pasta, lasagna, béchamel sauce, bolognaise sauce, fresh minced beef, fresh-cut vegetables and raw basmati rice. B. cereus group spp. were detected in 56.3% (324 of 575) of the samples giving rise to 380 strains. The highest incidence (100%) occurred in the raw basmati rice. Although only 10 (2.6%) of the 380 isolates were determined to be psychrotolerant (able to grow at ≤7°C), 25 (6.2%), 189 (49.7%) and 334 (87.9%) isolates were able to grow at mild temperature abuse conditions of 8°C, 9°C and 10°C, respectively. The large diversity of the isolates obtained (overall and between isolates obtained from the same product type) was highlighted by the results of the (GTG)(5) PCR fingerprinting of 80 selected isolates. Sixty-one of these 80 isolates belonged to 15 distinct clusters (≥85% Pearson correlation) whereas the remaining 19 were each clustered separately. Further diversity was also found in the distribution of toxin genes as 16 different profiles were observed in the 80 selected isolates. Whilst none of 80 selected strains harboured the ces gene required for the production of the emetic toxin cereulide, 42 strains (52.5%) carried all seven genes required for the production of the diarrhoeal enterotoxins: haemolytic BL, non-haemolytic enterotoxin and cytotoxin K. The results of this study highlight not only the omnipresence but also the highly diverse ecology of B. cereus spp. within and across several food product types available on the retail market in Belgium. They should also provide the impetus for more studies to enable detailed risk assessment studies to be performed.
21840633	Arsenic (As) accumulation in food crops such as rice is of major concern. To investigate whether phytoremediation can reduce As uptake by rice, the As hyperaccumulator Pteris vittata was grown in five contaminated paddy soils in a pot experiment. Over a 9-month period P. vittata removed 3.5-11.4% of the total soil As, and decreased phosphate-extractable As and soil pore water As by 11-38% and 18-77%, respectively. Rice grown following P. vittata had significantly lower As concentrations in straw and grain, being 17-82% and 22-58% of those in the control, respectively. Phytoremediation also resulted in significant changes in As speciation in rice grain by greatly decreasing the concentration of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). In two soils the concentration of inorganic As in rice grain was decreased by 50-58%. The results demonstrate an effective stripping of bioavailable As from contaminated paddy soils thus reducing As uptake by rice.
21841010	A novel mesophilic, hydrogenotrophic methanogen, designated strain TNR(T), was isolated from an anaerobic, propionate-degradation enrichment culture that was originally established from a rice field soil sample from Taiwan. Cells were non-motile rods, 2.0-6.5 µm long by 0.3 µm wide. Filamentous (up to about 100 µm) and coccoid (about 1 µm in diameter) cells were also observed in cultures in the late exponential phase of growth. Strain TNR(T) grew at 20-40 °C (optimally at 37 °C), at pH 6.5-7.4 (optimally at pH 7.0) and in the presence of 0-25 g NaCl l(-1) (optimally at 0 g NaCl l(-1)). The strain utilized H(2)/CO(2) and formate for growth and produced methane. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 56.4 mol%. Based on sequences of both the 16S rRNA gene and the methanogen-specific marker gene mcrA, strain TNR(T) was related most closely to Methanolinea tarda NOBI-1(T); levels of sequence similarities were 94.8 and 86.4 %, respectively. The 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity indicates that strain TNR(T) and M. tarda NOBI-1(T) represent different species within the same genus. This is supported by shared phenotypic properties, including substrate usage and cell morphology, and differences in growth temperature. Based on these genetic and phenotypic properties, strain TNR(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Methanolinea, for which the name Methanolinea mesophila sp. nov. is proposed; the type strain is TNR(T) (= NBRC 105659(T) = DSM 23604(T)). In addition, we also suggest family status for the E1/E2 group within the order Methanomicrobiales, for which the name Methanoregulaceae fam. nov. is proposed; the type genus of family is Methanoregula.
21843672	An electrochemical method based on potentiometric stripping analysis (PSA) employing a hexathia 18C6 (HT18C6) and rice husk (RH) modified carbon paste electrode (HT18C6-RH-CPE) has been proposed for the subnanomolar determination of antimony. The characterization of the electrode surface has been carried out by means of scanning electron microscopy, cyclic voltammetry, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and chronocoulometry. By employing HT18C6-RH-CPE, a 12-fold enhancement in the PSA signal (dt/dE) was observed as compared to plain carbon paste electrode (PCPE). Under the optimized conditions, dt/dE (sV(-1)) was proportional to the Sb(III) concentration in the range of 1.42×10(-8) to 6.89×10(-11)M (r=0.9944) with the detection limit (S/N=3) of 2.11×10(-11)M. The practical analytical utilities of the modified electrode were demonstrated by the determination of antimony in pharmaceutical formulations, human hair, sea water, urine and blood serum samples. The prepared modified electrode showed several advantages, such as simple preparation method, high sensitivity, very low detection limit and excellent reproducibility. Moreover, the results obtained for antimony analysis in commercial and real samples using HT18C6-RH-CPE and those obtained by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) are in agreement at the 95% confidence level.
21844309	Insertional mutagenesis of legume genomes such as soybean (Glycine max) should aid in identifying genes responsible for key traits such as nitrogen fixation and seed quality. The relatively low throughput of soybean transformation necessitates the use of a transposon-tagging strategy where a single transformation event will produce many mutations over a number of generations. However, existing transposon-tagging tools being used in legumes are of limited utility because of restricted transposition (Ac/Ds: soybean) or the requirement for tissue culture activation (Tnt1: Medicago truncatula). A recently discovered transposable element from rice (Oryza sativa), mPing, and the genes required for its mobilization, were transferred to soybean to determine if it will be an improvement over the other available transposon-tagging tools. Stable transformation events in soybean were tested for mPing transposition. Analysis of mPing excision at early and late embryo developmental stages revealed increased excision during late development in most transgenic lines, suggesting that transposition is developmentally regulated. Transgenic lines that produced heritable mPing insertions were identified, with the plants from the highest activity line producing at least one new insertion per generation. Analysis of the mPing insertion sites in the soybean genome revealed that features displayed in rice were retained including transposition to unlinked sites and a preference for insertion within 2.5 kb of a gene. Taken together these findings indicate that mPing has the characteristics necessary for an effective transposon-tagging resource.
21844684
21844686	The stem borer, Chilo agamemnon Bles., is the most serious insect pest in rice fields of the Egyptian Nile Delta. To induce rice plant resistance to Chilo agamemnon, the cry1Ia5 gene was introduced to rice plants (Oryza sativa L.). The integration of the cry1Ia5 gene into the plant genome was confirmed using PCR and Southern blot analyses. The obtained plantlets were transferred to the greenhouse until seeds were collected. Northern blot analysis of the T1 plants confirmed the expression of the cry1Ia5 gene. The insecticidal activity of the transgenic plants against the rice stem borer Chilo agamemnon were tested. The third larval instars were fed on stem cuts from three transgenic lines (L1, L2 and L3) as well as cuts from the control (gfp-transgenic) plants for one week and the mortality percentage was daily recorded. Transgenic line-3 showed the highest mortality percentage after one day (50%) followed by L2 (25%) then L1 (0%). Two days post treatment the mortality percentage increased to 70, 45 and 25% for transgenic lines 1, 2 and 3 respectively. Mortality of 100% was recorded four days post treatment, while those fed on the gfp-transgenic rice (control) showed 0% mortality. Thus, transgenic plants showed high resistance to stem borers and can serve as a novel genetic resource in breeding programs. Transgenic plants expressing BT protein were normal in phenotype with as good seed setting as the nontransgenic control plants.
21844690	A highly precise molecular marker technique, Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) was used to characterize the changes in genomic structure occurred due to introduction of foreign gene and/ or due to the induced tissue culture stress during the development of various transgenic Bt rice populations. The transgenic rice plants having complex to simple Bt gene and selectable marker gene organizations were selected from the six insect resistant Bt rice lines. Our results clearly demonstrate that integration pattern, extent of rearrangement of foreign DNA and method of transformation may influence the genomic changes in transgenic rice populations. Eleven of fourteen AFLP primer combinations tested, generated distinct scorable banding pattern, which were further used in this study. Three primer combinations E-TA / M-CTT (IRRI-NPT), E-AG / M-CAC (Tulasi) and E-AA / M-CAG (IR 68899B) produced only monomorphic bands in all the transgenic and control rice plants .A percentage of 0.61% of 430 million bases of haploid rice genome were examined by the use of 11 AFLP primer combinations employed in this study. The DNA fingerprints generated by AFLP analysis, of each Bt rice population was compared with their respective non-transgenic control and was found to be > 97% similar. This indicated that the introduction of Bt gene into the genome of six rice varieties showed few genomic changes. The comparison shows that fewer changes were observed among the transgenic plants developed by Agrobacterium infection than that of developed through particle bombardment. Transgene integration pattern and their copy number were associated with the extent of genomic changes observed in the transgenic Bt rice varieties. AFLP fingerprints of the six transgenic rice varieties evidenced few, but consistent polymorphic bands between the transgenic individuals with different PI values. Relationships among the transgenic populations with their control rice plants were expressed in the form of dendrograms.
21844701	An efficient detection system for trait validation and screening of GMOs is a much sought after procedure, which could also help in regulatory compliance. Currently, in India, a number of cry2Ab transgene carrying GM crops are undergoing field trial i.e., MON15985 cotton, Bt rice, Bt okra, Bt corn, Bt brinjal, Bt potato and Bt tomato. In this study, we report a qualitative assay for detection for cry2Ab (326 bp). Further, the amplification compatibility with promoter, p35S (195 bp), terminator, t-nos (180 bp) and marker gene, npt II (215 bp) was also confirmed using Bt cotton event MON15985 as reference material. The detection sensitivity was 0.1% that is far below the requirement of the stringent European Union (EU) regulations of 0.9%. The target DNA when spiked with either MECH-12 (cry1Ac), RR-soya (epsps) or MON-810 (cry1Ab) showed no inhibitory effect on cry2Ab detection. Moreover, the cry2Ab specific transgene construct (1.9 kb) was amplified and its identity confirmed by a nested PCR. Hence, a comprehensive multiplex PCR method for detection of cry2Ab gene in a GM crop/products was established. This is possibly a first report showing concurrent amplification of cry2Ab transgene, promoter, terminator and marker gene.
21847023	Monocot plants produce numerous adventitious (crown) roots. The plant hormone auxin has positive effects on crown root formation, while cytokinin suppresses it. We have demonstrated that auxin-induced CROWN ROOTLESS5 (CRL5) regulates crown root initiation in rice through the induction of OsRR1, a negative regulator of cytokinin signaling. CRL5 overexpressing calli formed adventitious roots, although CRL5 overexpressing plants did not induce ectopic roots, suggesting that CRL5, which promotes de novo root initiation, might function only in de-differentiated cells. A radicle initiated normally in a crl5 mutant, in spite of the defect in crown root initiation, whereas crown roots, but not a radicle, were produced in a radicleless1 (ral1) mutant. A crl5 ral1 double mutant displayed an additive phenotype, showing that the formation of each root is regulated by different genetic mechanisms in rice.
21847830	Composite farming systems, first clearly identified by Rambo, are those in which radically different technologies are found together in a single farming complex. Data from diaries kept by groups of farming families in two Angami Naga villages in northeast India, Khonoma and smaller Tsiesema, detailing inputs into and outputs from wet-rice terraces and jhum (swidden) fields in the years 2000 and 2001, are presented and discussed to detail the workings of related but different composite systems. The 2000–2001 survey caught an important set of changes in midstream. Although returns to labour from the first-year jhums were much higher than those from the wet-rice terraces in 2000–2001, jhums were declining in significance as a growing non-farm economy joined the production of cool-climate vegetables and a spice crop for the Indian market as principal sources of livelihood. This story is told in the light of recent writing on the demise of swidden in the larger Southeast Asian region, and it is suggested that greater attention be paid to the composite systems, which are not uncommon in this region. This might help diversify what has perhaps been an oversimplified discussion.
21847946	Since the complication of monitoring and evaluating the problems about the transgenic expression and its impacts on the receptor in the transgenic crop breeding and other relevant evaluated works, the authors in the present work tried to assess the differences of spectral parameters of the transgenic rice in contrast with its parent group quantitatively and qualitatively, fulfilling the growth monitoring of the transgenic samples. The spectral parameters (spectral morphological characteristics and indices) chosen are highly related to internal or external stresses to the receipts, and thus could be applied as indicators of biophysical or biochemical processes changes of plant. By ASD portable field spectroradiometer with high-density probe, fine foliar spectra of 8 groups were obtained. By analyzing spectral angle and continuum removal, the spectral morphological differences and their locations of sample spectra were found which could be as auxiliary priori knowledge for quantitative analysis. By investigating spectral indices of the samples, the quantitative differences of spectra were revealed about foliar chlorophyll a+b and carotenoid content. In this study both the spectral differences between transgenic and parent groups and among transgenic groups were investigated. The results show that hyperspectral technique is promising and a helpful auxiliary tool in the study of monitoring the transgenic crop and other relevant researches. By this technique, quantitative and qualitative results of sample spectra could be provided as prior knowledge, as certain orientation, for laboratory professional advanced transgenic breeding study.
21848400	The endophytic bacterium Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 is capable of colonizing the interior of rice roots, where it finds suitable physicochemical properties for multiplying and fixing nitrogen. Because these properties are poorly understood, a microtiter-plate-based screening of a transcriptional gfp (green fluorescent protein) fusion library of Azoarcus sp. grown under different conditions was performed. Monitoring of the GFP activity allowed the identification of a gene highly expressed in medium supplemented with ethanol. Sequence analysis revealed that this gene encodes a pyrrolo-quinoline quinone-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Inspection of the complete genome sequence of the Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 identified seven additional genes encoding putative ADH, indicating that BH72 is well equipped to survive in different environmental conditions offering various alcohols as carbon source. Analyses of these eight putative ADH showed that expression of three was induced by ethanol, of which two were also expressed inside rice roots. The fact that waterlogged plants such as rice accumulate ethanol suggests that ethanol occurs in sufficiently high concentration within the root to induce expression of bacterial ADH. Disruption of these two ADH evoked a reduced competitiveness to the wild type in colonizing rice roots internally. Thus, it is likely that ethanol is an important carbon source for the endophytic life of Azoarcus sp.
21848656	The role of NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (NDH)-dependent cyclic electron flow around photosystem I in photosynthetic regulation and plant growth at several temperatures was examined in rice (Oryza sativa) that is defective in CHLORORESPIRATORY REDUCTION 6 (CRR6), which is required for accumulation of sub-complex A of the chloroplast NDH complex (crr6). NdhK was not detected by Western blot analysis in crr6 mutants, resulting in lack of a transient post-illumination increase in chlorophyll fluorescence, and confirming that crr6 mutants lack NDH activity. When plants were grown at 28 or 35°C, all examined photosynthetic parameters, including the CO(2) assimilation rate and the electron transport rate around photosystems I and II, at each growth temperature at light intensities above growth light (i.e. 800 μmol photons m(-2) sec(-1)), were similar between crr6 mutants and control plants. However, when plants were grown at 20°C, all the examined photosynthetic parameters were significantly lower in crr6 mutants than control plants, and this effect on photosynthesis caused a corresponding reduction in plant biomass. The F(v)/F(m) ratio was only slightly lower in crr6 mutants than in control plants after short-term strong light treatment at 20°C. However, after long-term acclimation to the low temperature, impairment of cyclic electron flow suppressed non-photochemical quenching and promoted reduction of the plastoquinone pool in crr6 mutants. Taken together, our experiments show that NDH-dependent cyclic electron flow plays a significant physiological role in rice during photosynthesis and plant growth at low temperature.
21848845	Al-activated organic acid anion efflux from roots is an important Al resistance mechanism in plants. We have conducted homologous cloning and isolated Vigna umbellata multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (VuMATE), a gene encoding a de novo citrate transporter from rice bean. Al treatment up-regulated VuMATE expression in the root apex, but neither in the mature root region nor in the leaf. The degree of up-regulation of VuMATE was both partially Al concentration and time dependent, consistent with the delay in the onset of the Al-induced citrate efflux in rice bean roots. While La(3+) moderately induced VuMATE expression, Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) did not induce the expression. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE indicated this transporter can mediate significant anion efflux across the plasma membrane. [(14) C]citrate efflux experiments in oocytes demonstrated that VuMATE is a H(+) -dependent citrate transporter. In addition, expression of VuMATE in transgenic tomato resulted in increased Al resistance, which correlated with an enhanced citrate efflux. Taken together, these findings suggest that VuMATE is a functional homolog of the known citrate transporters in sorghum, barley, maize and Arabidopsis. The similarities and differences of all the known citrate transporters associated with Al stress in the MATE family are also discussed.
21848982	• The root epidermis of most angiosperms comprises hair (H) cells and nonhair (N) cells. H cells are shorter than N cells in grasses (Poaceae). • The aim of this study was to determine the developmental basis for differences in H and N cell size in the grasses Brachypodium distachyon and Oryza sativa. • We show that cytokinesis in the last cell division in each epidermal file is asymmetric in B. distachyon. The smaller daughter cell becomes an H cell and the larger cell forms an N cell. By contrast, asymmetric cytokinesis does not occur during H cell and N cell development in O. sativa and the differences in size arise because there is more cell expansion in N cells than in H cells after root hair initiation. • The different sizes of mature H and N cells result from cell division asymmetry in B. distachyon but different rates of cell expansion in O. sativa. We hypothesize that the mechanism that includes asymmetric cytokinesis during the development of H and N cells evolved among the Pooideae or ancestors of this subfamily.
21849025	Neocallimastix patriciarum is one of the common anaerobic fungi in the digestive tracts of ruminants that can actively digest cellulosic materials, and its cellulases have great potential for hydrolyzing cellulosic feedstocks. Due to the difficulty in culture and lack of a genome database, it is not easy to gain a global understanding of the glycosyl hydrolases (GHs) produced by this anaerobic fungus. We have developed an efficient platform that uses a combination of transcriptomic and proteomic approaches to N. patriciarum to accelerate gene identification, enzyme classification and application in rice straw degradation. By conducting complementary studies of transcriptome (Roche 454 GS and Illumina GA IIx) and secretome (ESI-Trap LC-MS/MS), we identified 219 putative GH contigs and classified them into 25 GH families. The secretome analysis identified four major enzymes involved in rice straw degradation: β-glucosidase, endo-1,4-β-xylanase, xylanase B and Cel48A exoglucanase. From the sequences of assembled contigs, we cloned 19 putative cellulase genes, including the GH1, GH3, GH5, GH6, GH9, GH18, GH43 and GH48 gene families, which were highly expressed in N. patriciarum cultures grown on different feedstocks. These GH genes were expressed in Pichia pastoris and/or Saccharomyces cerevisiae for functional characterization. At least five novel cellulases displayed cellulytic activity for glucose production. One β-glucosidase (W5-16143) and one exocellulase (W5-CAT26) showed strong activities and could potentially be developed into commercial enzymes.
21849087	The objective of this study was to investigate the indigenous utilization of termite mounds and termites in a rain-fed rice growing village in the central plain of Laos, where rice production is low and varies year-to-year, and to assess the possibility of sustainable termite mound utilization in the future. This research was carried out from 2007 to 2009. The termites were collected from their mounds and surrounding areas and identified. Twenty villagers were interviewed on their use of termites and their mounds in the village. Sixty-three mounds were measured to determine their dimensions in early March, early July and middle to late November, 2009. Eleven species of Termitidae were recorded during the survey period. It was found that the villagers use termite mounds as fertilizer for growing rice, vegetable beds and charcoal kilns. The villagers collected termites for food and as feed for breeding fish. Over the survey period, 81% of the mounds surveyed increased in volume; however, the volume was estimated to decrease by 0.114 m3 mound(-1) year(-1) on average due to several mounds being completely cut out. It was concluded that current mound utilization by villagers is not sustainable. To ensure sustainable termite utilization in the future, studies should be conducted to enhance factors that promote mound restoration by termites. Furthermore, it will be necessary to improve mound conservation methods used by the villagers after changes in the soil mass of mounds in paddy fields and forests has been measured accurately. The socio-economic factors that affect mound utilization should also be studied.
21850308	The mechanism and kinetics of the reaction of acrylonitrile (CH(2)=CHCN) with hydroxyl (OH) has been investigated theoretically. This reaction is revealed to be one of the most significant loss processes of acrylonitrile. BHandHLYP and M05-2X methods are employed to obtain initial geometries. The reaction mechanism conforms that OH addition to C[double bond, length as m-dash]C double bond or C atom of -CN group to form the chemically activated adducts, 1-IM1(HOCH(2)=CHCN), 2-IM1(CH(2)=HOCHCN), and 3-IM1(CH(2)=CHCOHN) via low barriers, and direct hydrogen abstraction paths may also occur. Temperature- and pressure-dependent rate constants have been evaluated using the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. The calculated rate constants are in good agreement with the experimental data. At atmospheric pressure with N(2) as bath gas, 1-IM1(OHCH(2)=CHCN) formed by collisional stabilization is the major product in the temperature range of 200-1200 K. The production of CH(2)CCN and CHCHCN via hydrogen abstractions becomes dominant at high temperatures (1200-3000 K).
21850832	To assess the effects of three types of Mg and P salt mixtures (potassium phosphate [K3PO4]/magnesium sulfate [MgSO4], potassium dihydrogen phosphate [K2HPO4]/MgSO4, KH2PO4/MgSO4) on the conservation of N and the biodegradation of organic materials in an aerobic food waste composting process, batch experiments were undertaken in four reactors (each with an effective volume of 30 L). The synthetic food waste was composted of potatoes, rice, carrots, leaves, meat, soybeans, and seed soil, and the ratio of C and N was 17:1. Runs R1-R3 were conducted with the addition of K3PO4/ MgSO4, K2HPO4/MgSO4, and KH2PO4/MgSO4 mixtures, respectively; run R0 was a blank performed without the addition of Mg and P salts. After composting for 25 days, the degrees of degradation of the organic materials in runs R0-R3 were 53.87, 62.58, 59.14, and 49.13%, respectively. X-ray diffraction indicated that struvite crystals were formed in runs R1-R3 but not in run R0; the gaseous ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) losses in runs R0-R3 were 21.2, 32.8, 12.6, and 3.5% of the initial total N, respectively. Of the tested Mg/P salt mixtures, the K2HPO4/ MgSO4 system provided the best combination of conservation of N and biodegradation of organic materials in this food waste composting process.
21850929	The aim of this study was to identify the foodborne pathogens mainly, Aspergillus sp. colonizing rice grains using cultural and microscopic methods. Four differential media (Czapek Dox Agar (CZA), Czapek Yeast Agar (CYA), Malt Extract Agar (MEA) and Czapek yeast 20% sucrose agar (CYA20S)) were used for differentiation of five Aspergillus sp., colonizing rice grains comparing with standard cultures. We studied macroscopic (colony color and diameter, conidia color, exudates, sclerotia and colony texture) and microscopic (conidiophore color, length and breadth, conidia size, shape and surface texture, vesicle diameter and phialides length and breadth) characteristics for identification of 110 isolates of Aspergillus sp. isolated from 65 rice grain samples collected from various countries in South Asia (Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand). According to morphological characters, all these isolates were belonging to Aspergillus flavus (45), A. fumigatus (8), A. ochraceus (7), A. niger (42) and A. tamarii (8). This is the first report on identification of large number of Aspergillus strains isolated from rice grains in South Asia.
21851648	The NAC transcription factor family is involved in the regulation of traits in both monocots and dicots of high agronomic importance. Understanding the precise functions of the NAC genes can be of utmost importance for the improvement of cereal crop plants through plant breeding. For the cereal crop plant barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) only a few NAC genes have so far been investigated. Through searches in publicly available barley sequence databases we have obtained a list of 48 barley NAC genes (HvNACs) with 43 of them representing full-length coding sequences. Phylogenetic comparisons to Brachypodium, rice, and Arabidopsis NAC proteins indicate that the barley NAC family includes members from all of the eight NAC subfamilies, although by comparison to these species a number of HvNACs still remains to be identified. Using qRT-PCR we investigated the expression profiles of 46 HvNACs across eight barley tissues (young flag leaf, senescing flag leaf, young ear, old ear, milk grain, late dough grain, roots, and developing stem) and two hormone treatments (abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate). Comparisons of expression profiles of selected barley NAC genes with the published functions of closely related NAC genes from other plant species, including both monocots and dicots, suggest conserved functions in the areas of secondary cell wall biosynthesis, leaf senescence, root development, seed development, and hormone regulated stress responses.
21852757	Two component high affinity nitrate transport system, NAR2/NRT2, has been defined in several plant species. In Arabidopsis, AtNAR2.1 has a role in the targeting of AtNRT2.1 to the plasma membrane. The gene knock out mutant atnar2.1 lacks inducible high-affinity transport system (IHATS) activity, it also shows the same inhibition of lateral root (LR) initiation on the newly developed primary roots as the atnrt2.1 mutant in response to low nitrate supply. In rice, OsNAR2.1 interacts with OsNRT2.1, OsNRT2.2 and OsNRT2.3a to provide nitrate uptake over high and low concentration ranges. In rice roots OsNAR2.1 and its partner NRT2s show some expression differences in both tissue specificity and abundance. It can be predicted that NAR2 plays multiple roles in addition to being an IHATS component in plants.
21852932	Fieldwork conducted throughout Timor-Leste in September 2004 and July 2009 resulted in a collection or recording of 263 herpetological specimens (100 amphibians, 163 reptiles), comprising at least seven species of frogs and toads, 20 species of lizards, seven species of snakes, two species of turtles, and one species of crocodile. Among the amphibians, the most frequently encountered species were toads (Duttaphrynus melanostictus), rice paddy frogs (genus Fejervarya), and rhacophorid treefrogs (Polypedates cf. leucomystax). All three variants of rice paddy frogs encountered represent undescribed species similar to Fejervarya verruculosa from neighboring Wetar Island. Records of Fejervarya cancrivora and Fejervarya limnocharis for Timor Island are apparently errors based on misidentification. We obtained voucher specimens for a total of 147 lizards and voucher photographs only for four specimens of Varanus timorensis. Aside from geckos frequently associated with human habitations (e.g., Gehyra mutilata, Gekko gecko, Hemidactylus frenatus, Hemidactylus platyurus), we discovered an as yet undescribed species of bent-toed gecko, genus Cyrtodactylus, in the Same valley. Our specimens of Hemidactylus platyurus are the first record of this species from Timor-Leste. Commonly encountered skinks included four-fingered skinks (genus Carlia), wedge skinks (genus Sphenomorphus), and night skinks (genus Eremiascincus). Notable among the 15 snakes collected was the frequency of pitvipers (Cryptelytrops insularis), which amounted to over 25% of all snakes. Our specimen of the wolfsnake Lycodon subcinctus is the first record of this species for Timor-Leste. Based on these findings, it appears that the biodiversity of amphibians and reptiles in this remote corner of Wallacea is much greater than previously thought, particularly with respect to scincid lizards. The detail we provide in the species accounts is designed to allow the use of this report as a preliminary field guide to the amphibians and reptiles of Timor-Leste. However, survey work is ongoing.
21853042	Post-translational methylation of arginine residues profoundly affects the structure and functions of protein and, hence, implicated in a myriad of essential cellular processes such as signal transduction, mRNA splicing and transcriptional regulation. Protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs), the enzymes catalyzing arginine methylation have been extensively studied in animals, yeast and, to some extent, in model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Eight genes coding for the PRMTs were identified in Oryza sativa, previously. Here, we report that these genes show distinct expression patterns in various parts of the plant. In vivo targeting experiment demonstrated that GFP-tagged OsPRMT1, OsPRMT5 and OsPRMT10 were localized to both the cytoplasm and nucleus, whereas OsPRMT6a and OsPRMT6b were predominantly localized to the nucleus. OsPRMT1, OsPRMT4, OsPRMT5, OsPRMT6a, OsPRMT6b and OsPRMT10 exhibited in vitro arginine methyltransferase activity against myelin basic protein, glycine-arginine-rich domain of fibrillarin and calf thymus core histones. Furthermore, they depicted specificities for the arginine residues in histones H3 and H4 and were classified into type I and Type II PRMTs, based on the formation of type of dimethylarginine in the substrate proteins. The two homologs of OsPRMT6 showed direct interaction in vitro and further titrating different amounts of these proteins in the methyltransferase assay revealed that OsPRMT6a inhibits the methyltransferase activity of OsPRMT6b, probably, by the formation of heterodimer. The identification and characterization of PRMTs in rice suggests the conservation of arginine methylation in monocots and hold promise for gaining further insight into regulation of plant development.
21853065	Detecting artificial selection in the genome of domesticated species can not only shed light on human history but can also be beneficial to future breeding strategies. Evidence for selection has been documented in domesticated species including maize and rice, but few studies have to date detected signals of artificial selection in the Sorghum bicolor genome. Based on evidence that domesticated S. bicolor and its wild relatives show significant differences in endosperm structure and quality, we sequenced three candidate seed storage protein (kafirin) loci and three candidate starch biosynthesis loci to test whether these genes show non-neutral evolution resulting from the domestication process. We found strong evidence of non-neutral selection at the starch synthase IIa gene, while both starch branching enzyme I and the beta kafirin gene showed weaker evidence of non-neutral selection. We argue that the power to detect consistent signals of non-neutral selection in our dataset is confounded by the absence of low frequency variants at four of the six candidate genes. A future challenge in the detection of positive selection associated with domestication in sorghum is to develop models that can accommodate for skewed frequency spectrums.
21853116	Heterotrimeric G-proteins comprised of Gα, Gβ and Gγ proteins are important signal transducers in all eukaryotes. The Gγ protein of the G-protein heterotrimer is crucial for its proper targeting at the plasma membrane and correct functioning. Gγ proteins are significantly smaller and more diverse than the Gα and Gβ proteins. In model plants Arabidopsis and rice that have a single Gα and Gβ protein, the presence of two canonical Gγ proteins provide some diversity to the possible heterotrimeric combinations. Our recent analysis of the latest version of the soybean genome has identified ten Gγ proteins which belong to three distinct families based on their C-termini. We amplified the full length cDNAs, analyzed their detailed expression profile by quantitative PCR, assessed their localization and performed yeast-based interaction analysis to evaluate interaction specificity with different Gβ proteins. Our results show that ten Gγ genes are retained in the soybean genome and have interesting expression profiles across different developmental stages. Six of the newly identified proteins belong to two plant-specific Gγ protein families. Yeast-based interaction analyses predict some degree of interaction specificity between different Gβ and Gγ proteins. This research thus identifies a highly diverse G-protein network from a plant species. Homologs of these novel proteins have been previously identified as QTLs for grain size and yield in rice.
21854475	Growth-related traits, such as greater height, greater biomass, faster growth rate and early flowering, are thought to enhance competitiveness of agricultural weeds. However, weedy rice, a conspecific weed of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), displays variation for growth traits. In the United States, separately evolved weedy rice groups have been shown to share genomic identity with exotic domesticated cultivars. Through a common garden experiment, we investigated whether growth trait divergence has occurred among U.S. weeds and their putative cultivated progenitors. We also determined polymorphism patterns in the growth candidate gene, SD1, to assess its possible role in the evolution of divergent phenotypes. We found considerable growth trait variation among weed groups, suggesting that growth trait convergence is not evident among weedy populations. Phenotypic divergence of weedy rice from cultivated ancestors is most apparent for flowering time. Introgression of a chromosomal block containing the SD1 allele from tropical japonica, the predominant U.S. rice cultivar, was detected in one weedy rice population and is associated with a change in growth patterns in this group. This study demonstrates the role of introgressive hybridization in evolutionary divergence of an important weed.
21854659	This multidisciplinary guideline has been developed as an aid to diagnosis and treatment of patients, especially athletes, with an acute inversion trauma of the ankle. Diagnosis of an acute inversion trauma is by means of a combination of location of the swelling, palpation and executing an anterior drawer test. X-rays are only indicated if weight-bearing is not possible and palpation of specific areas according to the 'Ottawa ankle rules' causes pain. Physical diagnostic examination 4-5 days post-trauma is a reliable method for discriminating between ankle sprain and lateral ligament rupture.- Rest, application of ice, compression and elevation (RICE) during the first days post-trauma is recommended. Analgesic therapy, with paracetamol as medication of choice, should be restricted to 2-7 days post-trauma. Conservative treatment is preferential to surgical treatment. A semi-rigid brace protection should become a standard treatment procedure. Exercise therapy results in a faster recovery and a faster resumption of work and sporting activities. Exercises to improve proprioception, coordination and muscle strength are indicated.
21854669	The food service sector continues to be the most common setting for reported foodborne disease outbreaks in England and Wales. Using restaurant-associated foodborne outbreaks reported in England and Wales from 1992 to 2009, cuisine-specific risk factors were examined. Of 677 restaurant outbreaks, there were 11 795 people affected, 491 hospitalizations, and seven deaths; and Chinese, Indian, British and Italian cuisines were the most commonly implicated (26%, 16%, 13% and 10%, respectively). Salmonella spp. accounted for most outbreaks of all cuisine types, and particularly Chinese (76%, 133/175) and Italian (55%, 38/69). Poultry meat was the most frequently implicated food vehicle in outbreaks associated with Indian (30%), Chinese (21%), and British (18%) cuisines while for Italian cuisine, desserts and cakes were more frequently implicated (33%). Rice dishes were also a common outbreak food vehicle in those restaurants serving Chinese (22%) and Indian (16%) cuisine. Cross-contamination was the biggest contributory factor associated with Chinese (46%), British (33%) and Indian (30%) cuisines whereas inadequate cooking (38%) and use of raw shell eggs in lightly cooked or uncooked food (35%) were more often associated with Italian cuisine. Over the surveillance period, the proportion of Salmonella Enteritidis PT4 outbreaks in restaurants serving Chinese cuisine significantly decreased (P<0.0001) and this was mirrored by an increase in S. Enteritidis non-PT4 outbreaks (P<0.0001). Despite this change in proportion, contributory factors such as cross-contamination have continued to cause outbreaks throughout the 18 years. The results show that by stratifying the risks associated with restaurants by cuisine type, specific evidence of food control failures can be used to target foodborne illness reduction strategies.
21854687	Allelic expression of the rice yield-related gene, leucine-rich receptor-like kinase 6 (LRK6), in the hybrid of 93-11 (Oryza sativa L. subsp. Indica var. 93-11) and Nipponbare (O. sativa L. subsp. Japonica var. Nipponbare) is determined by allelic promoter cis-elements. Using deletion analysis of the LRK6 promoter, we identified two distinct regions that might contribute to LRK6 expression. Sequence alignment revealed differences in these LRK6 promoter regions in 93-11 and Nipponbare. One of the segments, named differential sequence of LRK6 promoter 2 (DSLP2), contains potential transcription factor binding sites. Using a yeast one-hybrid assay, we isolated an ethylene-responsive factor (ERF) protein that binds to DSLP2. Sequence analysis and a GCC-box assay showed that the ERF gene, O. sativa ERF 3 (OsERF3), which belongs to ERF subfamily class II, has a conserved ERF domain and an ERF-associated amphiphilic repression repressor motif. We used an in vivo mutation assay to identify a new motif (5'-TAA(A)GT-3') located in DSLP2, which interacts with OsERF3. These results suggest that OsERF3, an AP2 (APETALA 2 Gene)/ERF transcription factor, binds the LRK6 promoter at this new motif, which might cause differential expression of LRK6 in the 93-11/Nipponbare hybrid.
21855360	Cadmium (Cd), a non-essential metal, is a kind of toxic heavy metal to life, which can accumulate in rice tissues including seeds, thus posing a risk to human health through food chain. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of rice response to Cd exposure, suppression subtractive hybridization and mirror orientation selection were used to compare gene expression profiles in seedling roots of Cd-exposed and control (unexposed) rice plants (Oryza sativa L., Nipponbare). Approximately 1700 positive clones, with insertions ranging from 250 to 1300 bp, were identified through reverse cDNA microarray analysis. Gene expression was further confirmed by real time RT-PCR. A number of differentially expressed genes were found in Cd-exposed rice roots, including 28 up-regulated genes and 19 down-regulated genes. They were found to be involved in diverse biological processes, such as metabolism, stress response, ion transport and binding, protein structure and synthesis, as well as signal transduction. Notably a number of known functional genes were identified encoding membrane proteins and stress-related proteins such as heat shock proteins, monosaccharide transporters, CBL-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinases and metal tolerance proteins. The cDNAs isolated in this study contribute to our understanding of genes and the biochemical pathways that may play a key role in the response of plants to metal exposure in the environment.
21856794	Recombination is strongly suppressed in centromeric regions. In chromosomal regions with suppressed recombination, deleterious mutations can easily accumulate and cause degeneration of genes and genomes. Surprisingly, the centromere of chromosome8 (Cen8) of rice (Oryza sativa) contains several transcribed genes. However, it remains unclear as to what selective forces drive the evolution and existence of transcribed genes in Cen8. Sequencing of orthologous Cen8 regions from two additional Oryza species, Oryza glaberrima and Oryza brachyantha, which diverged from O. sativa 1 and 10 million years ago, respectively, revealed a set of seven transcribed Cen8 genes conserved across all three species. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis with the centromere-specific histone CENH3 confirmed that the sequenced orthologous regions are part of the functional centromere. All seven Cen8 genes have undergone purifying selection, representing a striking phenomenon of active gene survival within a recombination-free zone over a long evolutionary time. The coding sequences of the Cen8 genes showed sequence divergence and mutation rates that were significantly reduced from those of genes located on the chromosome arms. This suggests that Oryza has a mechanism to maintain the fidelity and functionality of Cen8 genes, even when embedded in a sea of repetitive sequences and transposable elements.
21859670	Dietary guidelines based on 5 food groups was used as a main nutrition education tool until 1996 when food based dietary guidelines (FBDGs) were promoted after 2 years of formulation and development. These FBDGs for the general population were designed to promote desirable and culturally acceptable eating behavior. The nine qualitative guidelines of Thai FBDGs include: 1. eat a variety of foods from each of the five food groups and maintain proper weight, 2. eat adequate rice, or alternate carbohydrate, 3. eat plenty of vegetables and fruits regularly, 4. eat fish, lean meats, eggs, legumes and pulses regularly, 5. drink sufficient amount of milk every day, 6. take moderate amounts of fat, 7. avoid excessive intake of sweet and salty foods, 8. eat clean and uncontaminated foods, and 9. avoid or reduce consumption of alcoholic beverages. In 1998, the quantitative part of Thai FBDGs or food guide model was established as "Nutrition Flag" after rigorous test for understanding and acceptability among consumers. Promotion and dissemination of the Thai FBDGs have been carried out at national and community levels through basic health, agricultural and educational services and training activities, as well as periodic campaigning via multiple communication channels and media. Recently in 2009, the FBDGs for infant and preschool children were introduced to replace the previous infant and young child feeding guidelines. There has been no formal evaluation on the impact of promotion of the Thai FBDGs but some periodic testing of knowledge and practices have shown positive results.
21859960	To better understand the response of rice to nutrient stress, we have taken a systematic approach to identify rice genes that respond to deficiency of macronutrients and affect rice growth. We report here the expression and biological functions of a previously uncharacterized rice gene that we have named NRR (nutrition response and root growth). NRR is alternatively spliced, producing two 5'-coterminal transcripts, NRRa and NRRb, encoding two proteins of 308 and 223 aa, respectively. Compared to NRRb, NRRa possesses an additional CCT domain at the C-terminus. Expression of NRR in rice seedling roots was significantly influenced by deficiency of macronutrients. Knock-down of expression of NRRa or NRRb by RNA interference resulted in enhanced rice root growth. By contrast, overexpression of NRRa in rice exhibited significantly retarded root growth. These results revealed that both NRRa and NRRb played negative regulatory roles in rice root growth. Our findings suggest that NRRa and NRRb, acting as the key components, modulate the rice root architecture with the availability of macronutrients.
21860606	Recent advances in ecological modeling have focused on novel methods for characterizing the environment that use presence-only data and machine-learning algorithms to predict the likelihood of species occurrence. These novel methods may have great potential for land suitability applications in the developing world where detailed land cover information is often unavailable or incomplete. This paper assesses the adaptation and application of the presence-only geographic species distribution model, MaxEnt, for agricultural crop suitability mapping in a rural Thailand where lowland paddy rice and upland field crops predominant. To assess this modeling approach, three independent crop presence datasets were used including a social-demographic survey of farm households, a remote sensing classification of land use/land cover, and ground control points, used for geodetic and thematic reference that vary in their geographic distribution and sample size. Disparate environmental data were integrated to characterize environmental settings across Nang Rong District, a region of approximately 1,300 sq. km in size. Results indicate that the MaxEnt model is capable of modeling crop suitability for upland and lowland crops, including rice varieties, although model results varied between datasets due to the high sensitivity of the model to the distribution of observed crop locations in geographic and environmental space. Accuracy assessments indicate that model outcomes were influenced by the sample size and the distribution of sample points in geographic and environmental space. The need for further research into accuracy assessments of presence-only models lacking true absence data is discussed. We conclude that the Maxent model can provide good estimates of crop suitability, but many areas need to be carefully scrutinized including geographic distribution of input data and assessment methods to ensure realistic modeling results.
21861340	To learn boron background value of some foodstuffs in China and estimation the primary intake of boron. A total of 1035 grain, meat and fruit samples collected from 12 provinces in 2010 were analyzed for boron by ICP-MS. The primary intake of boron was estimated by using the data of "Survey on the Status of Nutrition and Health of Chinese People" in 2002. Soybeans contain the highest concentration of boron among all the surveyed foodstuffs, with the background valued is 39.46 mg/kg. Fruit and pork contain second highest concentration of boron, with the background value range from 4 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg. Beef, mutton, rice and wheat flour contain less boron than other foodstuffs, with background value less than 4 mg/kg. The primary intake of boron for Chinese habitants is 1.62 mg per day and rice is the main source of dietary boron. Boron concentration varies in different foodstuffs and soybeans are rich in boron. The average intake of boron for Chinese habitants was among the safe range if no illegal boron added to food.
21861352	To find the pathways for coal-burning fluorosis and the main difference between severe fluorosis area and non-fluorosis area in southwest China. The teeth health condition and diet structure of a total of 405 children and 14 adults were investigated by Dean's method recommended by WHO and questionnaire. There was evident difference in diet structure between dental fluorosis patients and healthy population. The dental fluorosis prevalence rates of population living on corn roasted with open oven rapidly before the age of 6, even if lived in monitoring spots of improved oven for defluorination, in which the fluoride concentration of indoor air had meet the Chinese National Standard, was 100%, and most were in moderate to severe stages. The dental fluorosis prevalence rates of population living on non-roasted corn or rice was very low, most of which were in very mild stages. Living on roasted foodstuffs is the main pathologic cause of endemic fluorosis of population in southwest China.
21861523	Monascus purpureus NTU 568 fermented rice is reported to exhibit a wide variety of biological effects, including antitumor, antihypertriglyceridemia, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory activities. However, its role in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease remains obscure. In this study, the hepatoprotective effects of Monascus-fermented red mold rice (RMR) was evaluated in vivo using chronic alcohol-induced mice as an experimental model. The alcohol-induced mice were orally treated with RMR at 307.5 mg/kg (1-fold), 615 mg/kg (2-fold), and 1537.5 mg/kg (5-fold) for 5 weeks, whereas controls received vehicle only. Treatment with RMR significantly attenuated the increased level of serum transaminases (aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase) and hepatic triglyceride and total cholesterol accumulation. Furthermore, RMR elevates hepatic antioxidant ability that reduced hepatic cell damage (steatosis) and decreased tissue inflammatory cytokine levels. These findings suggest that Monascus-fermented RMR may represent a novel, protective strategy against alcoholic liver disease by attenuating oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and steatosis.
21861848	How predictable is evolution at the molecular level? An example of repeated evolution in rice and Brassica illustrates how selection might preferentially target certain genes and mutations.
21862217	The effect of Glomus intraradices on four As species (arsenate; arsenite; dimethylarsinic acid, DMA; and monomethylarsonic acid, MMA) uptake by lowland rice and upland rice were investigated based on two experiments: (1) high (0-0.05 mM) and low (0-2.5mM) - affinity uptake kinetics of four As species in the short-term, and (2) As speciation in rice treated with 1mM arsenate, arsenite, DMA or MMA solutions. The results showed that mycorrhizal roots of two rice cultivars reduced the arsenate uptake significantly (P<0.001) in low-affinity uptake system, and decreased the uptake of arsenite and MMA noticeably (P<0.05) in high or low-affinity uptake systems. The four As species influx have significant differences (P<0.05) between two rice varieties in low-affinity uptake systems. In the arsenate treatment, the ratio of arsenate/arsenite reduced in shoots while increased in roots because of G. intraradices presence.
21863556	The development of meiotic division and associated genetic recombination paved the way for evolutionary changes. However, the secondary and tertiary structure and functional domains of many of the proteins involved in genetic recombination have not been studied in detail. We used the human Dmc1 gene product along with secondary and tertiary domain structures of Escherichia coli RecA protein to help determine the molecular structure and function of maize Dmc1, which is required for synaptonemal complex formation and cell cycle progression. The maize recombinase Dmc1 gene was cloned and characterized, using rice Dmc1 cDNA as an orthologue. The deduced amino acid sequence was used for elaborating its 3-D structure, and functional analysis was made with the CDD software, showing significant identity of the Dmc1 gene product in Zea mays with that of Homo sapiens. Based on these results, the domains and motives of WalkerA and WalkerB as ATP binding sites, a multimer site (BRC) interface, the putative ssDNA binding L1 and L2 loops, the putative dsDNA binding helix-hairpin-helix, a polymerization motif, the subunit rotation motif, and a small N-terminal domain were proposed for maize recombinase Dmc1.
21863588	Studies on food intake in the UAE especially in relation to the student life are lacking. To investigate eating habits of undergraduate students. A cohort of 146 undergraduate students studying Physiology at Zayed University completed a semi-structured questionnaire. A student response was accepted for analysis only those weeks with adequate responses not more than six. The mean student age was 19.28 (1.22) years with a minimum-maximum 18-23 years. The mean weight was 56.67(13.31) with a minimum-maximum of 40-89 kg. Of 1,250 United Arab Emirates Dirham; 10 indicated they worked but did not specify income; and three were married. More foods were consumed seven times in a week. Amongst the principal foods consumed were: bread, cereal, starch; white bread, cornflakes and rice; fruits-apple, banana and orange; vegetables -cucumber, tomato and lettuce; meat-fish, chicken and beef; and eggs and dairy-(milk, cheese and yoghurt). Dubai female undergraduates have a height intake of milk and fruits and less fanciful breads. Further studies should measure the exact quantity/mass of foods consumed per week.
21864029	The complete sequence of the mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) of the rice stem borer Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) was determined to be 15,465 bp. It contains 13 protein-coding genes (PCGs), 22 tRNA genes, the large and small rRNA genes, and an A+T-rich region. The nucleotide composition of the mitogenome of C. suppressalis is highly A+T biased, accounting for 79.70% in whole mitogenome, 77.74% in PCGs, 84.70% in tRNAs, 81.20% in rRNAs and 94.19% in A+T-rich region, respectively. The PCGs have typical ATN start codons, except for cox1, which contains the unusual CGA. The C. suppressalis A+T-rich region contains a conserved structure combining the motif ATAGA and a 19-bp poly-T stretch, but absence of the 9-bp poly-A element upstream trnM.
21865562	We recently featured Chinese dietary patterns that were associated with obesity, hyperglycemia, hypertension, and metabolic syndrome. In this study, we examined the association of those dietary patterns and risk of stroke among 26,276 Chinese adults aged ≥45 y by using data from the 2002 China National Nutrition and Health Survey and explored whether those associations were mediated by obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and other cardiovascular risk factors. The traditional southern Chinese dietary pattern, characterized by high intakes of rice and vegetables and moderate intakes in animal foods, was related to the lowest prevalence of stroke. Compared to the traditional southern dietary pattern, the traditional northern Chinese dietary pattern, characterized by high intakes of refined cereal products, potatoes, and salted vegetables, was associated with an elevated risk of stroke [OR = 1.96 (95% CI = 1.48-2.60); P < 0.0001]. Adjustment for conventional cardiovascular risk factors did not appreciably change the association [multivariate adjusted OR = 1.59 (95%CI = 1.16-2.17); P = 0.004]. The Western dietary pattern characterized by high consumption of beef, fruit, eggs, poultry, and seafood is also associated with an elevated risk of stroke [OR = 2.36 (95%CI = 1.82-3.06); P < 0.0001], but the associations became nonsignificant after adjustment for obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and dyslipidemia. In conclusion, we found that the traditional southern dietary pattern was related to low prevalence of stroke and the traditional northern dietary pattern was associated with an increased stroke risk. The Western dietary patterns also association with high risk of stroke, which was largely mediated by obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and dyslipidemia.
21865866
21865874	Post-green revolution advances made in biotechnology paved the way of cultivating the high-yielding, stress and disease resistant genetically modified (GM) varieties of wheat, rice, maize cotton and several other crops. The recent rapid commercialization of the genetically modified crops in Asia, Americas and Australia indicates the potentiality of this new technology. GM crops give higher yields and are rich in nutritional values containing vitamins and minerals and can thus can help to alleviate hunger and malnutrition of the growing population in the under developed and developing countries. It could also be possible to develop more biotic and abiotic stress resistant genotypes in these crops where it was difficult to develop due to the unavailability of genes of resistance in the crossing germplasms. However, further research and investigations are needed to popularize the cultivation of these crops in different parts of the world. This review provides an insight of the impact of GM crops on contemporary agriculture across the past few decades, traces its' history across time, highlights new achievements and breakthroughs and discusses the future implication of this powerful technology in the coming few decades.
21868603	In intraspecific crosses between cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) subspecies indica and japonica, the hybrid male sterility gene S24 causes the selective abortion of male gametes carrying the japonica allele (S24-j) via an allelic interaction in the heterozygous hybrids. In this study, we first examined whether male sterility is due solely to the single locus S24. An analysis of near-isogenic lines (NIL-F(1)) showed different phenotypes for S24 in different genetic backgrounds. The S24 heterozygote with the japonica genetic background showed male semisterility, but no sterility was found in heterozygotes with the indica background. This result indicates that S24 is regulated epistatically. A QTL analysis of a BC(2)F(1) population revealed a novel sterility locus that interacts with S24 and is found on rice chromosome 2. The locus was named Epistatic Factor for S24 (EFS). Further genetic analyses revealed that S24 causes male sterility when in combination with the homozygous japonica EFS allele (efs-j). The results suggest that efs-j is a recessive sporophytic allele, while the indica allele (EFS-i) can dominantly counteract the pollen sterility caused by S24 heterozygosity. In summary, our results demonstrate that an additional epistatic locus is an essential element in the hybrid sterility caused by allelic interaction at a single locus in rice. This finding provides a significant contribution to our understanding of the complex molecular mechanisms underlying hybrid sterility and microsporogenesis.
21869469	The thousand-grain weight and spikelets per panicle directly contribute to rice yield. Heading date and plant height also greatly influence the yield. Dissection of genetic bases of yield-related traits would provide tools for yield improvement. In this study, quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping for spikelets per panicle, thousand-grain weight, heading date and plant height was performed using recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between two diverse cultivars, Nanyangzhan and Chuan7. In total, 20 QTLs were identified for four traits. They were located to 11 chromosomes except on chromosome 4. Seven and five QTLs were detected for thousand-grain weight and spikelets per panicle, respectively. Four QTLs were identified for both heading date and plant height. About half the QTLs were commonly detected in both years, 2006 and 2007. Six QTLs are being reported for the first time. Two QTL clusters were identified in regions flanked by RM22065 and RM5720 on chromosome 7 and by RM502 and RM264 on chromosome 8, respectively. The parent, Nanyangzhan with heavy thousand-grain weight, carried alleles with increased effects on all seven thousand-grain weight QTL, which explained why there was no transgressive segregation for thousand-grain weight in the population. In contrast, Chuan7 with more spikelets per panicle carried positive alleles at all five spikelets per panicle QTL except qspp5. Further work on distinction between pleiotropic QTL and linked QTL is needed in two yield-related QTL clusters.
21869494
21870848	Rice cultivated on arsenic (As) contaminated-soils will accumulate variable grain-As concentrations, as impacted by varietal differences, soil variables, and crop management. A field-scale experiment was conducted to study the impact of intermittent and continuous flooding on As speciation and microbial populations in rice rhizosphere compartments of soils that were either historically amended with As pesticide or unamended with As. Rhizosphere-soil, root-plaque, pore-water and grain As were quantified and speciated, and microbial populations in rhizosphere soil and root-plaque were characterized. Total-As concentrations in rhizosphere and grain were significantly lower in intermittently flooded compared to the continuously flooded plots (86% lower in pore-water, 55% lower in root-plaque and 41% lower in grain samples). iAs(V), iAs(III), and DMAs(V) were the predominant As species detected in rhizosphere-soil and root-plaque, pore-water and grain samples, respectively. Relative proportions of Archaea and iron-reducing bacteria (FeRB) were higher in rhizosphere soil compared to root-plaque. In rhizosphere soil, the relative abundance of FeRB was lower in intermittently flooded compared to continuously flooded plots, but there were no differences between root-plaque samples. This study has demonstrated that reductions in dissolved As concentrations in the rhizosphere and subsequent decreases in grain-As concentration can be attained through water management.
21870905	Enteric submicron particles (SPs) formulations of α-amylase were prepared by w/o/w emulsion solvent evaporation using hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate (HPMCP) and Eudragit L 100, to avoid gastric inactivation of α-amylase. Smaller internal and external aqueous phase volume provided maximum encapsulation efficiency (71.92-73.40%), least particle size (546.4-595.4 nm) and 23-26% loss of enzyme activity. Release studies in 0.1 N HCl confirmed the gastro-resistance of formulations. The anionic SPs aggregated in 0.1 N HCl (i.e. gastric pH 1.2), due to protonation of carboxylic groups of enteric polymer. The aggregates being < 500 µm size would not impede gastric emptying. However, at pH >5.0 (duodenal pH), SPs showed de-aggregation due to restoration of surface charge. HPMCP and Eudragit L 100 SPs facilitated almost complete release of α-amylase within 30 min at pH 6.0 and 6.8, respectively, following Higuchi kinetics. PXRD and DSC indicated amorphous character and scanning electron microscope showed spherical shape of SPs. In simulated gastro-intestinal pH condition, HPMCP and Eudragit L 100 SPs showed good digestion of cooked rice and could serve as potential carrier for oral enzyme delivery. Stability studies indicated the formulations as quite stable to ensure 2 years shelf life at room temperature.
21871796	Rice husk (RH), an abundant by-product of rice milling, was used for the preparation of activated carbon (RHAC) via KOH and K(2)CO(3) chemical activation. The activation process was performed at the microwave input power of 600 W for 7 min. RHACs were characterized by low temperature nitrogen adsorption/desorption, scanning electron microscopy and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The adsorption behavior was examined using methylene blue as adsorbate. The K(2)CO(3)-activated sample showed higher yield and better pore structures and adsorption capacity development than the KOH-activated sample, with a BET surface area, total pore volume and monolayer adsorption capacity of 1165 m(2)/g, 0.78 cm(3)/g and 441.52 mg/g, respectively. The results revealed the feasibility of microwave heating for preparation of high surface area activated carbons from rice husks via K(2)CO(3) activation.
21871942	In order to assess the effect of food processing on the degradation of exogenous DNA components in sweet rice wine and rice crackers made from genetically modified (GM) rice (Oryza sativa L.), we developed genomic DNA extraction methods and compared the effect of different food processing procedures on DNA degradation. It was found that the purity, quantity and quality of DNA by alkaline lysis method were higher than by CTAB (cetyltrimethylammonium bromide) method. For sweet rice wine, CAMV35S (cauliflower mosaic virus 35S) promoter and NOS (nopaline synthase) terminator were degraded by the third day, whereas the exogenous gene Bar (bialaphos resistance) remained unaffected. For rice crackers, boiling, drying and microwaving contributed to the initial degradations of DNA. Baking resulted in further degradations, and frying led to the most severe changes. These results indicated that the stability of DNA in GM rice was different under different processing conditions. For sweet rice wine, Bar was most stable, followed by NOS, CAMV35S, and SPS. For rice crackers, CAMV35S was most stable, followed by SPS, NOS, and Bar.
21872016	In this work, an analytical method for GC using direct solid sample introduction was developed to tackle the problem regarding quick detection of pesticide residue in crops and large-scale screening of samples. 10mg of the crop solid sample without sample pre-treatment was directly introduced into a modified split/splitless injector for GC analysis. A split/splitless injector was modified to quickly remove oxygen and low boiling-point matrices of the sample. The whole sampling procedure was simple and it required less than 5 min. The experimental parameters including injector-port temperature, removal of oxygen and low boiling point matrices, size and the amount of the solid sample, oven temperature program were studied. Satisfactory recoveries of 6 pesticides (methyl parathion, fenitrothion, aldrin, dieldrin, endosulfan, o,p'-DDT) were obtained in maize and rice sample. Relative standard deviation was less than 15%. Experimental results showed that the proposed method was quick and reliable for pesticide residues analysis in crops.
21872695	Currently available whole-grain foods are not frequently consumed, and few children achieve the whole-grain intake recommendation. To investigate the influence on whole-grain consumption of substituting whole-grain for refined-grain ingredients of foods commonly consumed by children. Secondary cross-sectional analysis of publicly available food consumption data collected by the US Department of Agriculture. A nationally representative sample of US children aged 9 to 18 years (n=2,349) providing 24-hour dietary recall data in the 2003-2004 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Whole-grain intake was modeled by replacing varying proportions of refined flour contained in foods such as pizza crust, pasta, breads, and other baked goods with whole-wheat flour, and by replacing a proportion of white rice with brown rice. Replacement levels were based on the acceptability of whole-grain foods tested among children in elementary schools, and ranged from 15% to 50%; the majority were ≤25%. Sample-weighted mean premodeled and postmodeled whole-grain intake, standard errors, and statistical significance of differences between demographic subgroups were determined using SUDAAN (version 9.0.3, 2007, Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, NC). Whole-grain intake increased 1.7 oz eq per day (from 0.5 to 2.2 oz eq/day). Premodeled and postmodeled whole-grain intakes were 6% and 28%, respectively, of total grain intake (7.7 oz eq/day). Major sources of postmodeled whole-grain intakes were breads/rolls (28.0%); pizza (14.2%); breakfast cereals (11.0%); rice/pasta (10.6%); quick breads such as tortillas, muffins, and waffles (10.8%); other baked goods (9.9%); and grain-based savory snacks other than popcorn (7.3%). Premodeled whole-grain intake differed by poverty level, but postmodeled whole-grain intake did not. The substitution of whole grain for a specific proportion of refined grain ingredients of commonly consumed foods increased whole-grain intake and reduced disparities between demographic subgroups of children and teens.
21872700	Refugees in the United States have higher rates of some chronic diseases than US-born residents or other first-generation immigrants. This may be partially a result of dietary practices in the United States. There is limited information about which factors are related to dietary practices in refugee populations, particularly those who have been in the United States for 10 to 20 years. Research with Cambodian communities may be useful for examining the relationship between refugee characteristics and dietary practices. Two focus groups (n=11) and a survey (n=150) of Cambodian refugee women were conducted in Lowell, MA, from 2007 to 2008. χ(2) analyses, t tests, and analysis of variance tests were used to describe differences in dietary practices (24-hour recall and a targeted qualitative food assessment) by group characteristics. Higher acculturation was related to higher likelihood of eating brown rice/whole grains, and to lower likelihood of eating high-sodium Asian sauces. Higher education was related to higher likelihood of eating vegetables and fruits and to eating white rice fewer times. Nutrition education and receiving dietary advice from a health care provider were related to higher likelihood of eating whole grains/brown rice. Having a child at home was related to a higher likelihood of eating fast food. Among Cambodian refugees who have been in the United States for 10 to 20 years, dietary practices appear to have a relationship with acculturation (positive association), the interrupted education common to refugees (negative association), nutrition education from either programs or health care providers (positive association), and having a child at home (negative association).
21872987	Removal of mercuric ions by a mercury resistant bacteria, called Bacillus cereus (JUBT1), isolated from the sludge of a local chlor-alkali industry, has been investigated. Growth kinetics of the bacteria have been determined. A multiplicative, non-competitive relationship between sucrose and mercury ions has been observed with respect to bacterial growth. A combination of biofilm reactor, using attached growth of Bacillus cereus (JUBT1) on rice husk packing, and an activated carbon filter has been able to ensure the removal of mercury up to near-zero level. Energy dispersive spectrometry analysis of biofilm and the activated carbon has proved the transformation of Hg(2+) to Hg(0) and its confinement in the system.
21873161	Lipopolysaccharide derived from a symbiotic bacterium in wheat (Pantoea agglomerans, LPSp) has shown multiple positive effects, such as prophylactic, antiallergic and antitumour effects, without serious side-effects. LPSp has differential biological activities in comparison to other LPS, such as those from Escherichia coli (LPSe). The only difference between LPSp and LPSe is in the O-antigen polysaccharide structure (O-PS). This led us to the hypothesis that the O-PS structure would seem to participate in biological activities. Thus, the characterization of properties of O-PS in LPS is of the utmost importance for understanding cell activation in the maintenance of homeostasis. However, little is known about the correlation between the O-PS structure of LPS and its biological activities. In this study, we extracted LPS derived from a symbiotic bacterium in rice (strain A46, related species of Pantoea), which has a long history of use in foods, and investigated its putative structures and functions. LPS derived from strain A46 was prepared using a hot phenol extraction method. The properties of LPS-A46 were analysed by thin-layer chromatography, Tricine SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The function of LPS-A46 was analyzed by quantative real-time PCR and flow cytometry using THP-1 cells and Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) derived macrophages. In Tricine SDS-PAGE, high molecular mass LPS-A46 had a molecular mass lower than that of LPSp. In Western blotting, LPS-A46 reacted with lipid A antibody but did not react with an O-PS antibody of LPSp. In comparison to other LPS, LPS-A46 induced a differential cytokine gene expression profile in THP-1 cells and PBMC-derived macrophages. The present study suggests that LPS derived from symbiotic bacterium in rice is a bioactive functional LPS which may have different functional activities compared to other types of LPS.
21873330	The thermal dissipation (TD) of absorbed light energy in PSII is considered to be an important photoprotection process in photosynthesis. A major portion of TD has been visualized through the analysis of Chl fluorescence as energy quenching (qE) which depends on the presence of the PsbS subunit. Although the physiological importance of qE-associated TD (qE-TD) has been widely accepted, it is not yet clear how much of the absorbed light energy is dissipated through a qE-associated mechanism. In this study, the fates of absorbed light energy in PSII with regard to different TD processes, including qE-TD, were quantitatively estimated by the typical energy allocation models using transgenic rice in which psbS genes were silenced by RNA interference (RNAi). The silencing of psbS genes resulted in a decrease in the light-inducible portion of TD, whereas the allocation of energy to electron transport did not change over a wide range of light intensities. The allocation models indicate that the energy allocated to qE-TD under saturating light is 30-50%. We also showed that a large portion of absorbed light energy is thermally dissipated in manners that are independent of qE. The nature of such dissipations is discussed.
21873814	A sensitive and selective analytical method for the determination of pindone in agricultural products by LC-MS/MS was developed. Pindone was extracted with acetone, and an aliquot of the crude extract was re-extracted with hexane. For lipid-rich samples, the crude extract was further cleaned up by acetonitrile-hexane partitioning. The extract was cleaned up on a tandem graphitized carbon-silica gel column. For brown rice, soybean, and tea, PSA column cleanup was added prior to LC-MS/MS determination. Average recoveries of pindone from brown rice, soybean, potato, spinach, cabbage, apple, orange, tomato, cucumber, and tea fortified at 0.001 mg/kg were 81-93%, and the relative standard deviations were 2-7%. The limit of quantitation (S/N ≥ 10) of the developed method was 0.001 mg/kg for all the tested agricultural products.
21874956	Thirty-three soil samples were collected from the Luling, Liuer, and Zhangji coal mines in the Huaibei and Huainan areas of Anhui Province, China. The samples were analyzed for antimony (Sb) by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) method. The average Sb content in the 33 samples was 4 mg kg(-1), which is lower than in coals from this region (6.2 mg kg(-1)). More than 75% of the soils sampled showed a significant degree of Sb pollution (enrichment factors [EFs] 5-20). The soils collected near the gob pile and coal preparation plant were higher in Sb content than those collected from residential areas near the mines. The gob pile and tailings from the preparation plant were high in mineral matter content and high in Sb. They are the sources of Sb pollution in surface soils in the vicinity of coal mines. The spatial dispersion of Sb in surface soil in the mine region shows that Sb pollution could reach out as far as 350 m into the local environment conditions. Crops in rice paddies may adsorb some Sb and reduce the Sb content in soils from paddyfields. Vertical distribution of Sb in two soil profiles indicates that Sb is normally relatively immobile in soils.
21875786	Rice hull hydrolysate was used as feedstock for microbial lipids production using the oleaginous fungus Mortierella isabellina. Kinetic experiments were conducted in C/N ratios 35, 44 and 57 and the oil accumulation into fungal biomass was 36%, 51.2% and 64.3%, respectively. A detailed mathematical model was used in order to describe the lipid accumulation process. This model was able to predict reducing sugar and nitrogen consumption, fat-free biomass synthesis and lipid accumulation. Neutral lipids constitute the predominant lipid fraction, while the major fatty acids were oleic, palmitic and linoleic acid. Fatty acids of long aliphatic chain were not detected, thus the microbial oil produced is a promising feedstock for biodiesel production.
2187604	The standard packaged glucose-based oral rehydration solution (ORS) provides optimal rehydration of acute diarrhea from any cause, but it does not reduce the volume, frequency, or duration of diarrhea. A new ORS formulation has been developed in which glucose is replaced by 50 to 60 gm of cereal flours, such as rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, or millet, or equivalent amounts of noncereal staples, such as boiled potato or plantain. In a clinical trial in children suffering from acute diarrhea, the staple-based or polymer-based ORS achieved a 40% to 60% reduction in the stool volume compared with the standard ORS. A three-cell longitudinal study in rural Bangladesh involving 2,000 children aged 1 to 4 years demonstrated the superior efficacy of rice ORS compared with glucose ORS or no ORS. The cumulative recovery rate on day 3 was 66%, 24%, and 11% in the rice ORS, glucose ORS, and comparison groups, respectively. The study suggests that staple-based or food-based ORS is the optimal treatment of diarrhea.
21876685	Previous studies indicate that elevated amylose content in products from rice, corn, and barley induce lower postprandial glycaemic responses and higher levels of resistant starch (RS). Consumption of slowly digestible carbohydrates and RS has been associated with health benefits such as decreased risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. To evaluate the postprandial glucose and insulin responses in vivo to bread products based on a novel wheat genotype with elevated amylose content (38%). Bread was baked from a unique wheat genotype with elevated amylose content, using baking conditions known to promote amylose retrogradation. Included test products were bread based on whole grain wheat with elevated amylose content (EAW), EAW with added lactic acid (EAW-la), and ordinary whole grain wheat bread (WGW). All test breads were baked at pumpernickel conditions (20 hours, 120°C). A conventionally baked white wheat bread (REF) was used as reference. Resistant starch (RS) content was measured in vitro and postprandial glucose and insulin responses were tested in 14 healthy subjects. The results showed a significantly higher RS content (on total starch basis) in breads based on EAW than in WGW (p<0.001). Lactic acid further increased RS (p<0.001) compared with both WGW and EAW. Breads baked with EAW induced lower postprandial glucose response than REF during the first 120 min (p<0.05), but there were no significant differences in insulin responses. Increased RS content per test portion was correlated to a reduced glycaemic index (GI) (r=-0.571, p<0.001). This study indicates that wheat with elevated amylose content may be preferable to other wheat genotypes considering RS formation. Further research is needed to test the hypothesis that bread with elevated amylose content can improve postprandial glycaemic response.
21877128	The grass family (Poaceae) of the monocotyledons includes about 10,000 species and represents one of the most important taxa among angiosperms. Their flower morphology is remarkably different from those of other monocotyledons and higher eudicots. The peculiar floral structure of grasses is the floret, which contains carpels and stamens, like eudicots, but lacks petals and sepals. The reproductive organs are surrounded by two lodicules, which correspond to eudicot petals, and by a palea and lemma, whose correspondence to eudicot organs remains controversial. The molecular and genetic analysis of floral morphogenesis and organ specification, primarily performed in eudicot model species, led to the ABCDE model of flower development. Several genes required for floral development in grasses correspond to class A, B, C, D, and E genes of eudicots, but others appear to have unique and diversified functions. In this paper, we outline the present knowledge on the evolution and diversification of grass genes encoding MIKC-type MADS-box transcription factors, based on information derived from studies in rice, maize, and wheat. Moreover, we review recent advances in studying the genes involved in the control of flower development and the extent of structural and functional conservation of these genes between grasses and eudicots.
21877228	The environmental risks of pesticides are typically determined by laboratory single-species tests based on OECD test guidelines, even if biodiversity should also be taken into consideration. To evaluate how realistic these assessments are, ecological changes caused by the systemic insecticides imidacloprid and fipronil, which have different physicochemical properties, when applied at recommended commercial rates on rice fields were monitored using experimental paddy mesocosms. A total of 178 species were observed. There were no significant differences in abundance of crop arthropods among the experimental paddies. However, zooplankton, benthic and neuston communities in imidacloprid-treated field had significantly less abundance of species than control and fipronil fields. Significant differences in abundance of nekton community were also found between both insecticide-treated paddies and control. Influences on the growth of medaka fish were also found in both adults and their fries. Both Principal Response Curve analysis (PRC) and Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) showed the time series variations in community structure among treatments, in particular for imidacloprid during the middle stage of the experimental period. These results show the ecological effect-concentrations (LOEC ~ 1 μg/l) of these insecticides in mesocosms, especially imidacloprid, are clearly different from their laboratory tests. We suggest that differences in the duration of the recovery process among groups of species are due to different physicochemical properties of the insecticides. Therefore, realistic prediction and assessment of pesticide effects at the community level should consider not only the sensitivity traits and interaction among species but also the differences in physicochemical characteristics of each pesticide.
21879323	The leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase (RLK) proteins constitute a large superfamily in the plant genome, and carry out key functions in a variety of biological pathways. In an effort to determine the evolutionary fate of members of a large gene family such as plant LRR RLK proteins we conducted in silico analysis using complete genome sequencing datasets, genome-wide transcriptome databases, and bioinformatics tools. A total of 292 and 165 LRR RLK genes were retrieved from the rice and Arabidopsis genomes, respectively, formed by diverse duplication events for gene expansion. The phylogenic analyses of the LRR RLK genes suggested combinations of LRR domains and RLK domains in the ancient plant genome prior to the divergence of rice and Arabidopsis, followed by massive independent expansions during speciation. The somewhat high frequencies (50-73%) of expressional divergence of members of duplicate gene pairs formed by whole/segmental genome duplication (W/SGD) and tandem duplication (TD) events of Arabidopsis and TD events of rice support the idea of their functional diversity for gene retention. By contrast, a relatively low degree (at least 20%) of members of rice LRR RLK gene pairs formed by W/SGD appear to be divergent in expression following the duplication event. At least 7 pairs of co-expressed gene clusters, including each of the tentative orthologous LRR RLK genes between rice and Arabidopsis, were enriched to an orthologous set between members of each of the pairs as compared to those of the random pairs, suggesting some degree of functional conservation of individual genes. These results may shed some light on the crucial functions of the plant LRR RLK genes with regard to a variety of biological processes.
21879858	The widespread incidence of chronic arsenicosis in the Bengal Delta has led to intensive research on arsenic (As) enrichment in groundwater as well as accumulation in foodstuffs, as there are potential health risks associated with exposure to As from both sources. This study deals with human As exposure through the drinking of groundwater, consumption of locally grown foodstuffs (e.g., crops and vegetables) and cooked food in Nadia district, West Bengal. Groundwater and foodstuffs were collected and analyzed with FI-HG-AAS to estimate the total As content. Urine samples collected from human subjects were analyzed to assess the As exposure. Two major crops, boro and aman rice, showed a considerable amount of As, with mean values of 194 and 156 μg kg(-1), respectively. Significant levels of As were also found in other common crops and vegetables cultivated in this area (for example, the mean As in Arum and radish was 780 and 674 μg kg(-1), respectively). Total intake of As from foodstuffs by adults (560 μg day(-1)) and children (393 μg day(-1)) in the area was found to be at alarming levels. Arsenic exposure was demonstrated by the presence of As in urine (ranging between 154 and 276 μg L(-1)), with overall As retention of 50-60 %. The results of this study further indicate the potential risk of As exposure to local inhabitants through the food chain which is associated with continuous consumption of As-contaminated foodstuffs. Therefore, more action needs to be taken to control the contamination pathways (such as the water-soil-crop system) to protect humans from continuous ingestion of As through foodstuffs.
21880027	A number of plant species, including rice, secretes citrate from roots in response to Al stress. Here we characterized the functions of a gene, OsFRDL4 (Os01g0919100) that belongs to the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family in rice (Oryza sativa). Heterologous expression in Xenopus oocyte showed that the OsFRDL4 protein was able to transport citrate and was activated by Al. The expression level of the OsFRDL4 gene in roots was very low in the absence of Al, but was greatly enhanced by Al after short exposure. Furthermore, the OsFRDL4 expression was regulated by ART1, a C2H2-type zinc finger transcription factor for Al tolerance. Transient expression of OsFRDL4 in onion epidermal cells showed that it localized to the plasma membrane. Immunostaining showed that OsFRDL4 was localized in all cells in the root tip. These expression patterns and cell specificity of localization of OsFRDL4 are different from other MATE members identified previously. Knockout of OsFRDL4 resulted in decreased Al tolerance and decreased citrate secretion compared with the wild-type rice, but did not affect citrate concentration in the xylem sap. Furthermore, there is a positive correlation between OsFRDL4 expression level and the amount of citrate secretion in rice cultivars that are differing in Al tolerance. Taken together, our results show that OsFRDL4 is an Al-induced citrate transporter localized at the plasma membrane of rice root cells and is one of the components of high Al tolerance in rice.
21880075	Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) plants damaged by insects emit a blend of volatiles, predominantly sesquiterpenes, that are implicated in attracting natural enemies of the attacking insects. To characterize sesquiterpene biosynthesis in sorghum, seven terpene synthase (TPS) genes, SbTPS1 through SbTPS7, were identified based on their evolutionary relatedness to known sesquiterpene synthase genes from maize and rice. While SbTPS6 and SbTPS7 encode truncated proteins, all other TPS genes were determined to encode functional sesquiterpene synthases. Both SbTPS1 and SbTPS2 produced the major products zingiberene, β-bisabolene and β-sesquiphellandrene, but with opposite ratios of zingiberene to β-sesquiphellandrene. SbTPS3 produced (E)-α-bergamotene and (E)-β-farnesene. SbTPS4 formed (E)-β-caryophyllene as the major product. SbTPS5 produced mostly (E)-α-bergamotene and (Z)-γ-bisabolene. Based on the genome sequences of sorghum, maize and rice and the sesquiterpene synthase genes they contain, collinearity analysis identified the orthologs of sorghum sesquiterpene synthase genes, except for SbTPS4, in maize and rice. Phylogenetic analysis implied that SbTPS1, SbTPS2 and SbTPS3, which exist as tandem repeats, evolved as a consequence of local gene duplication in a lineage-specific manner. Structural modeling and site-directed mutagenesis experiments revealed that three amino acids in the active site play critical roles in defining product specificity of SbTPS1, SbTPS2, SbTPS3 and their orthologs in maize and rice. The naturally occurring functional variations of sesquiterpene synthases within and between species suggest that multiple mechanisms, including lineage-specific gene duplication, subfunctionalization, neofunctionalization and pseudogenization of duplicated genes, have all played a role in the dynamic evolution of insect-induced sesquiterpene biosynthesis in grasses.
21880076	Iron is essential for most living organisms and its availability often determines survival and proliferation. The Oryza sativa (rice) transcription factor IDEF1 plays a crucial role in regulating iron deficiency-induced genes involved in iron homeostasis. In the present report, we found characteristic histidine-asparagine repeat and proline-rich regions in IDEF1 and its homolog in Hordeum vulgare (barley), HvIDEF1. An immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography assay revealed that IDEF1 and HvIDEF1 bind to various divalent metals, including Fe(2+) and Ni(2+) . Recombinant IDEF1 protein expressed in Escherichia coli contained mainly Fe and Zn. This metal-binding activity of IDEF1 was almost abolished by deletion of the histidine-asparagine and proline-rich regions, but DNA-binding and trans-activation functions were not impaired by the deletion. Transgenic rice plants constitutively overexpressing IDEF1 without these metal-binding domains failed to cause pleiotropic effects conferred by overexpression of full-length IDEF1, including a low germination rate, impaired seedling growth, tolerance to iron deficiency in hydroponic culture, and enhanced expression of various iron deficiency-inducible genes. Impairment of the transcriptional regulation of IDEF1 by deletion of the metal-binding domains occurred primarily at an early stage of iron deficiency. These results suggest that the histidine-asparagine and proline-rich regions in rice IDEF1 directly bind to divalent metals and sense the cellular metal ion balance caused by changes in iron availability.
21880933	Phytochromes mediate the photoperiodic control of flowering in rice (Oryza sativa), a short-day plant. Recent molecular genetics studies have revealed a genetic network that enables the critical daylength response of florigen gene expression. Analyses using a rice phytochrome chromophore-deficient mutant, photoperiod sensitivity5, have so far revealed that within this network, phytochromes are required for expression of Grain number, plant height and heading date7 (Ghd7), a floral repressor gene in rice. There are three phytochrome genes in rice, but the roles of each phytochrome family member in daylength response have not previously been defined. Here, we revealed multiple action points for each phytochrome in the critical daylength response of florigen expression by using single and double phytochrome mutant lines of rice. Our results show that either phyA alone or a genetic combination of phyB and phyC can induce Ghd7 mRNA, whereas phyB alone causes some reduction in levels of Ghd7 mRNA. Moreover, phyB and phyA can affect Ghd7 activity and Early heading date1 (a floral inducer) activity in the network, respectively. Therefore, each phytochrome gene of rice has distinct roles, and all of the phytochrome actions coordinately control the critical daylength response of florigen expression in rice.
21881788	Artificial ponds or irrigated systems scattered throughout farmlands can offer important habitats for anurans and can be interesting sites for research on species resources use in a changing landscape. This study describes the diet and resource partitioning among anurans inhabiting irrigated rice fields in the Pantanal region. Twenty categories of prey were found in the stomachs of Leptodactylus chaquensis, L. elenae, L. podicipinus and Rhinella bergi, the most frequent being Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, larvae of Hexapoda, Hemiptera, Diptera and Orthoptera. The great differences found in the diet of these species in rice fields compared to other locations, according to available records in the literature, was the increased importance of Hemipitera and Orthoptera and the decrease in importance of Hymenoptera in the diet of leptodactylids. These differences might be attributed to changes in the availability of resources in response to habitat modification. Although diet composition was very similar among species, niche overlap was larger than expected by chance, suggesting that the competition for food resources is not, or has not been, a significant force in determining the structure of this frog community. Two non-exclusive hypotheses could be considered as a justification for this result: 1) the high niche overlap could result from resource availability, which is sufficient to satisfy all species without any strong competition; 2) or the high values of niche overlap could be a selective force driving species to compete, but there has not been enough time to express a significant divergence in the species diet because the study area is characterised as a dynamic habitat influenced by frequent and cyclical changes.
21882006	The potential use of Brettanomyces anomalus PSY-001 as an additional starter culture for the production of Rice-steamed sponge cake (RSSC), a traditional fermented food in China, was investigated. Two productions of RSSC, each containing batches of experimental cakes with Brettanomyces added and reference cakes with the leavened liquid added were carried out. For both experimental and reference cakes, chemical analysis and sensory evaluation were carried out during the fermentation period. The results showed that experimental cakes had desirable aroma and taste. The observed differences indicate a positive contribution to the overall quality of RSSC by B. anomalus PSY-001.
21882650	A field experiment was conducted for two years to find out best water management practice to mitigate methane emission from the rice-fields. Continuously flooded conditions yielded two major flushes of methane emission and on an average resulted in relatively higher rate of methane emission (2.20 and 1.30 mg m(-2) hr(-1), respectively in 2005 and 2006) during the kharif season. The methane flux was reduced to half (1.02 and 0.47 mg m(-2) hr(-1), respectively in 2005 and 2006) when rice fields were irrigated 2-3 days after infiltration of flood water into the soil. Irrigating the field at 0.15 bar matric potential reduced seasonal methane flux by 60% (0.99 and 0.41 mg m(-2) hr(-1), respectively in 2005 and 2006) as compared to completely flooded conditions, without any decline in grain yield (60 q ha(-1)).
21882653	The physico-chemical characteristics of paper mill industry effluent were measured and some were found to be above the permissible limits prescribed by Indian irrigation water standard. A study was conducted in pots to investigate the effects of different concentrations (10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 and 100%) of paper mill effluent on growth and production of rice, mustard and peafor three years. The study reveals that the paper mill effluent has deleterious effect on the growth of crop at higher concentrations. However, at lower concentration (viz. 10 to 40% in rice, 10 to 50% in mustard and 10 to 60% in pea) of effluent, beneficial impact on general welfare of the crops was noticed. Growth and development was increased with increasing the concentration of the effluent up to 30% in rice, 40% in mustard and 50% in pea. Investigation showed that the growth and production of rice, mustard and pea was found maximum at a concentration of 30, 40 and 50% effluent respectively.
21882679	Yellow dwarf is a major disease problem of wheat, Triticum aestivum L., in Alabama and is estimated to cause yield loss of 21-42 bu/acre. The disease is caused by a complex of viruses comprising several virus species, including Barley yellow dwarf virus-PAV and Cereal yellow dwarf virus-RPV. Several other strains have not yet been classified into a specific species. The viruses are transmitted exclusively by aphids (Hemiptera:Aphididae). Between the 2005 and 2008 winter wheat seasons, aphids were surveyed in the beginning of each planting season in several wheat plots in Alabama and western Florida Collected aphids were identified and bioassayed for their yellow dwarf virus infectivity. This survey program was designed to identify the aphid species that serve as fall vectors of yellow dwarf virus into winter wheat plantings. From 2005 to 2008, bird cherry-oat aphid, Rhopalosiphum padi (L.); rice root aphid, Rhopalosiphum rufiabdominale (Sasaki); and greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), were found consistently between October and December. The species of aphids and their timing of appearance in wheat plots were consistent with flight data collected in North Alabama between 1996 and 1999. Both R. padi and R. rufiabdominale were found to carry and transmit Barley yellow dwarf virus-PAV and Cereal yellow dwarf virus-RPV. The number of collected aphids and proportion of viruliferous aphids were low. Although this study has shown that both aphids are involved with introduction of yellow dwarf virus to winter wheat in Alabama and western Florida, no conclusions can be made as to which species may be the most important vector of yellow dwarf virus in the region.
21882705	Cross-resistance to two fipronil analogs, butene-fipronil and ethiprole, was detected in fipronil-resistant field populations and a resistant laboratory strain of the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae), although the two analogs have not been used widely in rice-growing areas in China. The results showed that six field populations with 23.8-43.3-fold resistance to fipronil had reached a higher level of cross-resistance to ethiprole (resistance ratio [RR] = 47.1-100.9-fold) and had a minor level of cross-resistance (RR = 3.4- 8.1-fold) to butene-fipronil. After 10 generations of selection, the RR to fipronil increased from 7.3-fold to 41.3-fold. At the same time, the insect increased cross-RR to ethiprole from 16.3-fold to 65.6-fold, whereas it had only minor increase in cross-resistance to butene-fipronil from 2.8-fold to 4.0-fold. These results confirmed that fipronil-resistant N. lugens could develop a higher level of cross-resistance to ethiprole, although it still maintained a lower level cross-resistance to butene-fipronil. Our data suggest that ethiprole is not a suitable alternative for controlling N. lugens, once the insect has developed a high level resistance to fipronil. Further investigation is necessary to understand the cross-resistance mechanisms in N. lugens.
21882708	Phytohormones and fatty acids (FAs) play important roles in plant resistance to insects and pathogens. In this study, we investigated the similarities and differences in the accumulations of phytohormones and FAs in the resistant wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) 'Molly' and the nonhost rice (Oryza sativa L.) 'Niponbare' in responses to Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor (Say) (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae), larval attacks. Using chemical ionization-gas-chromatography/mass spectrometry, we analyzed the concentrations of 13 phytohomones and FAs at the attack site of wheat and rice plants at 1, 6, 24, or 48 h after the initial attack. Hessian fly attack resulted in increases of salicylic acid (SA), 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA), palmitic acid (FA16:0), but a decrease of abscisic acid in both wheat and rice plants. In addition, the accumulation of jasmonic acid (JA) increased, whereas the accumulation of cinnamic acid (CA) decreased in wheat plants, but no changes were observed in the accumulation of JA, and the accumulation of CA increased in rice plants after Hessian fly attack. However, the accumulations of benzoic acid, strearic acid (FA18:0), and oleic acid (FA18:1) increased in rice plants, but no changes were observed in wheat plants after Hessian fly attack. Hessian fly-induced changes were more rapid in wheat plants in comparison with those in rice plants. Our study suggests that SA and OPDA may be involved in resistance of wheat and rice plants to Hessian fly and that the R gene-mediated resistance responses are more rapid than nonhost resistance responses.
21883232	Striga hermonthica and S. asiatica are root parasitic weeds that infect the major cereal crops of sub-Saharan Africa causing severe losses in yield. The interspecific upland NEw RICe for Africa (NERICA) cultivars are popular amongst subsistence farmers, but little is known about their post-attachment resistance against Striga. Here, we evaluate the post-attachment resistance levels of the NERICA cultivars and their parents against ecotypes of S. hermonthica and S.asiatica, characterize the phenotype of the resistance mechanisms and determine the effect of Striga on host biomass. Some NERICA cultivars showed good broad-spectrum resistance against several Striga ecotypes, whereas others showed intermediate resistance or were very susceptible. The phenotype of a resistant interaction was often characterized by an inability of the parasite to penetrate the endodermis. Moreover, some parasites formed only a few connections to the host xylem, grew slowly and remained small. The most resistant NERICA cultivars were least damaged by Striga, although even a small number of parasites caused a reduction in above-ground host biomass. The elucidation of the molecular genetic basis of the resistance mechanisms and tolerance would allow the development of cultivars with multiple, durable resistance for use in farmers' fields.
21883233	Striga hermonthica (Striga) is an obligate hemiparasitic weed, causing severe yield losses in cereals, including rice, throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Striga germination depends on strigolactones (germination stimulants) exuded by the host roots. The interspecific New Rice for Africa (NERICA) cultivars offer a potentially interesting gene pool for a screen for low germination-inducing rice cultivars. Exudates were collected from all NERICA cultivars and their parents (Oryza sativa and Oryza glaberrima) for the analysis of strigolactones. In vitro and in situ Striga germination, attachment and emergence rates were recorded for each cultivar. NERICA 1 and CG14 produced significantly less strigolactones and showed less Striga infection than the other cultivars. NERICAs 7, 8, 11 and 14 produced the largest amounts of strigolactones and showed the most severe Striga infection. Across all the cultivars and parents, there was a positive relationship between the amount of strigolactones in the exudate and Striga germination, attachment and emergence rates. This study shows that there is genetic variation in Striga pre-attachment resistance in NERICA rice. Cultivars combining this pre-attachment resistance with post-attachment resistance (already identified) can provide a key component for durable integrated management of this noxious weed in cereal production systems in sub-Saharan Africa.
21883250	Endophytic fungi are potential sources of secondary metabolites; however, they are little known for phytohormones secretion and amelioration of plant growth under abiotic stresses. We isolated a novel endophyte from the roots of Cucumis sativus and identified it as a strain of Exophiala sp. by sequencing internal transcribed spacer/large subunit rDNA and phylogenetic analysis. Prior to identification, culture filtrate (CF) of Exophiala sp. has shown significant growth promotion of Waito-C [a gibberellins (GAs)-deficient mutant cultivar] and Dongjin-byeo (normal GAs biosynthesis cultivar) rice seedlings. CF analysis of Exophiala sp. showed the presence of physiologically active GAs (GA₁, GA₃, GA₄ and GA₇) and inactive GAs (GA₅, GA₈, GA₉, GA₁₂ and GA₂₀). Exophiala sp. had higher GAs in its CF than wild-type strain of Gibberella fujikuroi except GA₃. Influence of Exophiala sp. was assessed on cucumber plant's growth and endogenous abscisic acid (ABA), salicylic acid (SA) and bioactive GAs under salinity and drought stresses. Exophiala sp.-treated plants have shown significantly higher growth and rescued the host plants from stress promulgated water deficit, osmotic and cellular damage. The altered levels of stress-responsive ABA showed low level of stress confined to endophyte-applied plants than control. Elevated levels of SA and bioactive GAs (GA₃ and GA₄) in endophyte-associated plants suggest stress-modulating response toward salinity and drought. In conclusion, symbiotic relations between Exophiala and cucumber have reprogrammed the host plant growth under abiotic stresses, thus indicating a possible threshold role of endophytic fungi in stress alleviation. This study could be extended for improving agricultural productivity under extreme environmental conditions.
21883321	The objectives of this study were to investigate the microbiological safety of various foods intended for consumption by infants and babies. The incidence of Cronobacter spp. and Enterobacteriaceae from powdered infant formula (PIF, n = 75) and baby soy milk (n = 10) was examined. Additionally, aerobic plate count, coliforms and the prevalence of foodborne pathogens were investigated in 230 samples from a variety of infant and baby foods, including cereal-based follow-up formulas (FUF), liquid FUF and other infant foods. High APCs were observed in nutrient supplements and cereal-based FUF. Coliforms were found in 6 (2·6%) products, and Cronobacter spp. was isolated in 10 (4·4%) samples, including four PIF and six cereal-based FUF. Bacillus cereus was detected in 48 (20·9%) samples: cereal-based FUF items (23·0%), rice soups (20·6%), honey samples (40·0%), biscuits (40·0%) and liquid FUF (7·4%). New safety criteria, along with hygienic control measures and consumer education strategies, are essential to improve the microbiological safety of infant or baby foods. This study provides comprehensive information about the prevalence and level of contamination of infant and baby food products by Cronobacter spp. and other major foodborne pathogens.
21883553	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) regulate the downstream components in calcium signaling pathways. We investigated the effects of overexpression and disruption of an Oryza sativa (rice) CDPK (OsCPK12) on the plant's response to abiotic and biotic stresses. OsCPK12-overexpressing (OsCPK12-OX) plants exhibited increased tolerance to salt stress. The accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2) O(2)) in the leaves was less in OsCPK12-OX plants than in wild-type (WT) plants. Genes encoding reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging enzymes (OsAPx2 and OsAPx8) were more highly expressed in OsCPK12-OX plants than in WT plants, whereas the expression of the NADPH oxidase gene, OsrbohI, was decreased in OsCPK12-OX plants compared with WT plants. Conversely, a retrotransposon (Tos17) insertion mutant, oscpk12, and plants transformed with an OsCPK12 RNA interference (RNAi) construct were more sensitive to high salinity than were WT plants. The level of H(2) O(2) accumulation was greater in oscpk12 and OsCPK12 RNAi plants than in the WT. These results suggest that OsCPK12 promotes tolerance to salt stress by reducing the accumulation of ROS. We also observed that OsCPK12-OX seedlings had increased sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA) and increased susceptibility to blast fungus, probably resulting from the repression of ROS production and/or the involvement of OsCPK12 in the ABA signaling pathway. Collectively, our results suggest that OsCPK12 functions in multiple signaling pathways, positively regulating salt tolerance and negatively modulating blast resistance.
21883799	The above-ground surfaces of terrestrial plants, the phyllosphere, comprise the main interface between the terrestrial biosphere and solar radiation. It is estimated to host up to 10(26) microbial cells that may intercept part of the photon flux impinging on the leaves. Based on 454-pyrosequencing-generated metagenome data, we report on the existence of diverse microbial rhodopsins in five distinct phyllospheres from tamarisk (Tamarix nilotica), soybean (Glycine max), Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), clover (Trifolium repens) and rice (Oryza sativa). Our findings, for the first time describing microbial rhodopsins from non-aquatic habitats, point towards the potential coexistence of microbial rhodopsin-based phototrophy and plant chlorophyll-based photosynthesis, with the different pigments absorbing non-overlapping fractions of the light spectrum.
21884048	Earlier research by W.R. Rice showed that experimentally limiting gene expression to males in Drosophila melanogaster leads to the rapid evolution of higher fitness. Using a similar male-limited (ML) selection protocol, we confirmed that result and showed that eliminating intralocus sexual conflict results in a comprehensive remodeling of the sexually dimorphic phenotype. However, despite starting from laboratory-evolved descendants of the same founder population used in earlier work, we found no evidence for the increased performance in sperm competition or increased postmating harm to females previously demonstrated. We employed females with both ancestral population genotypes and those of the special "clone generator" females used in ML selection. Despite strong differences in sperm storage or usage patterns between these females, there was no detectable adaptation by males to the specific female stock used in the selection protocol. The lack of evolution of postcopulatory traits suggests either that requisite genetic variation was eliminated by long-term domestication of the base population, or that complex male-by-male-by-female interactions made these traits unavailable to selection. The different evolutionary outcomes produced by two very similar experiments done at different time points underscores the potential for cryptic adaptation in the laboratory to qualitatively affect inferences made using quantitative genetic methodologies.
21884291	The genus Aquilegia consists of 60-70 perennial plant species widely distributed throughout the northern hemisphere. Its flowers have a delicate and ornamental appearance that makes them a favourite of gardeners. In this genus, adaptive radiations for both floral and vegetative traits have occurred. These adaptive radiations, and the key phylogenetic placement of Aquilegia between Arabidopsis and rice, make this genus a 'model system' for plant evolution (Kramer 2009). In this issue, Castellanos et al. (2011) use a marker-based method to infer heritability for floral and vegetative traits in two Aquilegia species. Layered on top of this are estimates of the strength of natural selection. This novel joint estimation of heritability and selection in the wild showed that vegetative traits, compared to floral traits, have the highest evolutionarily potential. Evolutionary potential is the most important quantity to measure in wild populations. It combines inheritance and strength of selection and predicts the potential for populations to adapt to changing environments. The combination of molecular techniques with species in natural environments makes this work a model for molecular ecological investigations.
21884550	Melatonin biosynthesis was examined in Sekiguchi mutant rice lacking functional tryptamine 5-hydroxylase (T5H) activity, which is the terminal enzyme for serotonin biosynthesis in rice. During senescence process, the leaves of Sekiguchi mutant rice produced more tryptamine and N-acetyltryptamine compared with the wild-type Asahi leaves. Even though T5H activity is absent, Sekiguchi leaves produce low levels of serotonin derived from 5-hydroxytryptophan, which was found to be synthesized during senescence process. Accordingly, both rice cultivars exhibited similar levels of N-acetylserotonin until 6 days of senescence induction; however, only Asahi leaves continued to accumulate N-acetylserotonin after 6 days. In contrast, a large amount of N-acetyltryptamine was accumulated in Sekiguchi leaves, indicating that tryptamine was efficiently utilized as substrate by the rice arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase enzyme. An increase in N-acetyltryptamine in Sekiguchi had an inhibitory effect on synthesis of melatonin because little melatonin was produced in Sekiguchi leaves at 6 days of senescence induction, even in the presence of equivalent levels of N-acetylserotonin in both cultivars. The exogenous treatment of 0.1 mmN-acetyltryptamine during senescence process completely blocked melatonin synthesis.
21887015	The National Agricultural Biotechnology Information Center (NABIC) constructed an agricultural biology-based infrastructure and developed a Web based relational database for agricultural plants with biotechnology information. The NABIC has concentrated on functional genomics of major agricultural plants, building an integrated biotechnology database for agro-biotech information that focuses on genomics of major agricultural resources. This genome database provides annotated genome information from 1,039,823 records mapped to rice, Arabidopsis, and Chinese cabbage.
21887349	Ubiquitin-ligases or E3s are components of the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) that coordinate the transfer of ubiquitin to the target protein. A major class of ubiquitin-ligases consists of RING-finger domain proteins that include the substrate recognition sequences in the same polypeptide; these are known as single-subunit RING finger E3s. We are studying a particular family of RING finger E3s, named ATL, that contain a transmembrane domain and the RING-H2 finger domain; none of the member of the family contains any other previously described domain. Although the study of a few members in A. thaliana and O. sativa has been reported, the role of this family in the life cycle of a plant is still vague. To provide tools to advance on the functional analysis of this family we have undertaken a phylogenetic analysis of ATLs in twenty-four plant genomes. ATLs were found in all the 24 plant species analyzed, in numbers ranging from 20-28 in two basal species to 162 in soybean. Analysis of ATLs arrayed in tandem indicates that sets of genes are expanding in a species-specific manner. To get insights into the domain architecture of ATLs we generated 75 pHMM LOGOs from 1815 ATLs, and unraveled potential protein-protein interaction regions by means of yeast two-hybrid assays. Several ATLs were found to interact with DSK2a/ubiquilin through a region at the amino-terminal end, suggesting that this is a widespread interaction that may assist in the mode of action of ATLs; the region was traced to a distinct sequence LOGO. Our analysis provides significant observations on the evolution and expansion of the ATL family in addition to information on the domain structure of this class of ubiquitin-ligases that may be involved in plant adaptation to environmental stress.
21887356	Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) exists at multiple ploidies and two phenotypically distinct ecotypes. To facilitate interploidal comparisons and to understand the extent of sequence variation within existing breeding pools, two complete switchgrass chloroplast genomes were sequenced from individuals representative of the upland and lowland ecotypes. The results demonstrated a very high degree of conservation in gene content and order with other sequenced plastid genomes. The lowland ecotype reference sequence (Kanlow Lin1) was 139,677 base pairs while the upland sequence (Summer Lin2) was 139,619 base pairs. Alignments between the lowland reference sequence and short-read sequence data from existing sequence datasets identified as either upland or lowland confirmed known polymorphisms and indicated the presence of other differences. Insertions and deletions principally occurred near stretches of homopolymer simple sequence repeats in intergenic regions while most Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) occurred in intergenic regions and introns within the single copy portions of the genome. The polymorphism rate between upland and lowland switchgrass ecotypes was found to be similar to rates reported between chloroplast genomes of indica and japonica subspecies of rice which were believed to have diverged 0.2-0.4 million years ago.
21887580	Efficient and cost-effective conversion of plant biomass to usable forms of energy requires a thorough understanding of cell wall biosynthesis, modification and degradation. To elucidate these processes, we assessed the expression dynamics during enzymatic removal and regeneration of rice cell walls in suspension cells over time. In total, 928 genes exhibited significant up-regulation during cell wall removal, whereas, 79 genes were up-regulated during cell wall regeneration. Both gene sets are enriched for kinases, transcription factors and genes predicted to be involved in cell wall-related functions. Integration of the gene expression datasets with a catalog of known and/or predicted biochemical pathways from rice, revealed metabolic and hormonal pathways involved in cell wall degradation and regeneration. Rice lines carrying Tos17 mutations in genes up-regulated during cell wall removal exhibit dwarf phenotypes. Many of the genes up-regulated during cell wall development are also up-regulated in response to infection and environmental perturbations indicating a coordinated response to diverse types of stress.
21887694	The effect of Monascus purpureus red mould rice (RMR) on modulation of lipid metabolism and oxidative stress was studied in hypercholesterolemic rats. Cholesterol feeding for 14 weeks caused a significant increase in the lipid peroxides and total thiols and antioxidant enzymes, viz. glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GRd), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) in serum and liver in comparison to the control group. However, supplementation of RMR to hypercholesterolemic rats at 8, 12 and 16% significantly increased the GRd, GPx, SOD and CAT activities in serum and liver tissues. Furthermore, RMR feeding significantly decreased total thiols and lipid peroxides and also increased other antioxidant molecules such as glutathione and ascorbic acid in high-cholesterol fed rats. The efficiency of RMR (16%) in modulating the antioxidant molecules and antioxidant enzymes is comparable to standard drug-lovastatin. Thus, this study suggests that the long-term administration of RMR may play an important role in suppressing oxidative stress and, thus, may be useful for the prevention and/or early treatment of hypercholesterolemia.
21888231	Seeing the sustainability of rice-wheat cropping system (RWCS) of the Indo-Gangetic Plain, adequate crop nutrition in general and nitrogen (N) in particular holds the key to sound crop management. The excessive application or insufficient management of N means an economic loss to the farmer and may lead to yield penalties and environmental problems. Improving N management in consonance with other nutrients is much important to break yield plateaus as breeding for high yielding is not happening in recent years. Findings from farm survey are used to evaluate the on-farm N management practices in rice crop of the study area. The crop management practices (especially time of sowing/transplanting and irrigation requirement) and resource base of the farmers decided the N use pattern of the farmers. The N(Physical optimum) and N(economic optimum) exceeding the recommended levels revealed the apparent need for the revalidation of the existing recommendations. Paddy yield increased significantly within different rice types. This study generated comprehensive data on N use pattern in rice in the study area.
21888470	This pilot study explores the roles of family socioeconomic status (SES) in influencing dietary consumption patterns in 60 Chinese elementary school-aged children (ages 6-11) in Chengdu, China. Two interviewer-administered questionnaires were specially developed to gather sociodemographic and food frequency data. Children from low SES families consumed rice and traditional staples, and high calcium drinks more frequently, and western fast food less frequently than children from higher SES families. After controlling for family SES, children who were primarily cared for by their mothers or grandparents consumed less healthy snacks less frequently than children who were primarily cared for by other adults (including fathers).
21888586	This article describes pathways through which trade policy change in two Pacific Island countries has contributed to changes in the food supply, and thereby to the nutrition transition. The effect of various trade policies from 1960 to 2005 on trends in food imports and availability is described, and case studies are presented for four foods associated with the nutrition transition and chronic disease in the Pacific. Trade policies (including liberalization, export promotion, protection of the domestic meat industry and support for foreign direct investment) have contributed to a reduced availability of traditional staples, and increased availability of foods associated with the nutrition transition, including refined cereals (particularly polished rice and white flour), meat, fats and oils, and processed food products. This study suggests that promoting healthier imports and increasing production of healthier traditional foods, in both of which trade policy has an important effect, has the potential to improve diets and health, in conjunction with other public health intervention.
21888963	Rice is a staple food crop and has become a reference of monocot plant for functional genomic research. With the availability of high quality rice genome sequence, there has been rapid accumulation of functional genomic resources, including: large mutant libraries by T-DNA insertion, transposon tagging, and chemical mutagenesis; global expression profiles of the genes in the entire life cycle of rice growth and development; full-length cDNAs for both indica and japonica rice; sequences from resequencing large numbers of diverse germplasm accessions. Such resource development has greatly accelerated gene cloning. By the end of 2010, over 600 genes had been cloned using various methods. Many of the genes control agriculturally useful traits such as yield, grain quality, resistances to biotic and abiotic stresses, and nutrient-use efficiency, thus have potential utility in crop genetic improvement. This review was aimed to provide a comprehensive summary of such progress. We also presented our perspective for future studies.
21889038	Grain number is the only yield component that is directly associated with increased grain yield in important cereal crops like wheat. Historical yield studies show that increases in grain yield are always accompanied by an increase in grain number. Adverse weather conditions can cause severe fluctuations in grain yield and substantial yield losses in cereal crops. The problem is global and despite its impact on world food production breeding and selection approaches have only met with limited success. A specific period during early reproductive development, the young microspore stage of pollen development, is extremely vulnerable to abiotic stress in self-fertilising cereals (wheat, rice, barley, sorghum). A better understanding of the physiological and molecular processes that lead to stress-induced pollen abortion may provide us with the key to finding solutions for maintaining grain number under abiotic stress conditions. Due to the complexity of the problem, stress-proofing our main cereal crops will be a challenging task and will require joint input from different research disciplines.
21889226	Fusarium graminearum is the most important pathogen causing Fusarium head blight (FHB) of small cereal grains worldwide responsible for quantitative and qualitative yield losses. The presence in crops is often associated with mycotoxin contamination of foodstuff limiting its use for human and animal consumption. A collection of isolates of F. graminearum from Germany was characterized genetically and chemically for their potential to produce the B trichothecenes deoxynivalenol (DON) and nivalenol (NIV). Molecular methods with eight PCR assays were implemented based on functional Tri7 and Tri13 genes and on the tri5-tri6 intergenic region to differentiate between chemotaxonomic groups DON and NIV, resulting in a marked majority (61/63) of DON chemotypes. Mycotoxins produced on rice kernels were quantified by means of LC-MSMS including DON, NIV, 3-acetyl-DON (3-ADON), 15-acetyl-DON (15-ADON), DON-3-glucoside, fusarenon X, as well as zearalenone; all of them proving to be present in high concentration among the isolates. All DON-chemotype isolates also produced lower amounts of NIV with the amount being positively correlated (R²=0.89) to the DON amount. 15-ADON and 3-ADON are reported to be produced simultaneously by the isolates, the former dominating over the latter in all but one isolate. Fungal biomass, was quantified via ergosterol amount on rice. It was used to calculate specific mycotoxin production per biomass of isolates, ranging from 0.104 to 1.815mg DON mg-1 ergosterol, presenting a Gaussian distribution. Genotype and phenotype characterization revealed discrepancies with respect to mycotoxin production potential of the fungi, i.e. isolates from one chemotype were able to produce mycotoxins from other chemotypes in considerable amounts.
21892364	The neonatal hypoxia-ischemia rat model referred to as the Rice-Vannucci model is extensively used to study perinatal hypoxia-ischemia and child brain injury. One of the major weaknesses of this model is its inconsistency of brain infarction among animals. We hypothesize that the inconsistency of infarction is caused by prolonged operation time and therefore isoflurane exposure. Neonatal hypoxia-ischemia was induced in postnatal days 7 and 10 rat pups by unilateral right common carotid ligation followed by 2.5 h of hypoxia (8% oxygen). The incision-to-ligation (ITL) was defined as the amount of time from initial incision (4 min after 2% isoflurane exposure) to completion of carotid ligation (at which point isoflurane exposure was also terminated). In the first part of the study, the ITL of each group was designated to be 5, 13, and 21 min. In the second part of the study, the ITL is designated to 4 min; however, continued isoflurane was used to make 5, 13, and 21 min isoflurane exposure for each group. Percentages of brain infarction were assessed at 48 h following surgery. Motor deficits were accessed by Rotarod test. Marked brain infarction was observed in the 5-min ITL group and a decrease of brain infarction observed in the 13-and 21-min groups (P<0.05). In the second part of the study, marked brain infarction was observed in the 5-min isoflurane exposure group, and a decrease of brain infarction was observed in each of the 13- and 21-min isoflurane exposure groups (P<0.05). Similar tendencies were observed in Rotarod tests than 5-min ITL and 5-min isoflurane groups showed more marked deficits (P<0.05). This study demonstrated that brain infarction inconsistency of the neonatal hypoxia-ischemia rat pup model is related to the operation time. The observed time-dependent decrease of brain infarction is correlated to the isoflurane exposure time. Shorter operation and isoflurane exposure improves this model consistency of brain infarction and motor deficits.
21892614	Rice (Oryza sativa L. 'Nipponbare') cDNA subtractive suppression hybridization (SSH) libraries constructed using cadmium (Cd)-treated seedling roots were screened to isolate Cd-responsive genes. A cDNA clone, encoding the rice homolog of Metal Tolerance Protein (OsMTP1), was induced by Cd treatment. Plant MTPs belong to cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) protein family, which are widespread in bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals. OsMTP1 heterologous expression in yeast mutants showed that OsMTP1 was able to complement the mutant strains' hypersensitivity to Ni, Cd, and Zn, but not other metals including Co and Mn. OsMTP1 expression increased tolerance to Zn, Cd, and Ni in wild-type yeast BY4741 during the exponential growth phase. OsMTP1 fused to green fluorescent protein was localized in onion epidermal cell plasma membranes, consistent with an OsMTP1 function in heavy metal transporting. OsMTP1 dsRNAi mediated by transgenic assay in rice seedlings resulted in heavy metal sensitivity and changed the heavy metal accumulation in different organs of mature rice under low-concentration heavy metal stress. Taken together, our results show that OsMTP1 is a bivalent cation transporter localized in the cell membrane, which is necessary for efficient translocation of Zn, Cd and other heavy metals, and maintain ion homeostasis in plant.
21892935	The male germ line in flowering plants is initiated within developing pollen grains via asymmetric division. The smaller cell then becomes totally encased within a much larger vegetative cell, forming a unique "cell within a cell structure". The generative cell subsequently divides to give rise to two non-motile diminutive sperm cells, which take part in double fertilization and lead to the seed set. Sperm cells are difficult to investigate because of their presence within the confines of the larger vegetative cell. However, recently developed techniques for the isolation of rice sperm cells and the fully annotated rice genome sequence have allowed for the characterization of the transcriptional repertoire of sperm cells. Microarray gene expression data has identified a subset of rice genes that show unique or highly preferential expression in sperm cells. This information has led to the identification of cis-regulatory elements (CREs), which are conserved in sperm-expressed genes and are putatively associated with the control of cell-specific expression. We aimed to identify the CREs associated with rice sperm cell-specific gene expression data using in silico prediction tools. We analyzed 1-kb upstream regions of the top 40 sperm cell co-expressed genes for over-represented conserved and novel motifs. Analysis of upstream regions with the SIGNALSCAN program with the PLACE database, MEME and the Mclip tool helped to find combinatorial sets of known transcriptional factor-binding sites along with two novel motifs putatively associated with the co-expression of sperm cell-specific genes. Our data shows the occurrence of novel motifs, which are putative CREs and are likely targets of transcriptional factors regulating sperm cell gene expression. These motifs can be used to design the experimental verification of regulatory elements and the identification of transcriptional factors that regulate sperm cell-specific gene expression.
21894467	Specific Indonesian lowland rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars elongate thick primary roots on the soil surface of paddy fields. To clarify the genetic factors controlling soil-surface rooting, we performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses using 124 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between Gemdjah Beton, an Indonesian lowland rice cultivar with soil-surface roots, and Sasanishiki, a Japanese lowland rice cultivar without soil-surface roots. These cultivars and the RILs were tested for soil-surface rooting in a paddy field. We identified four regions of chromosomes 3, 4, 6, and 7 that were associated with soil-surface rooting in the field. Among them, one major QTL was located on the long arm of chromosome 7. This QTL explained 32.5-53.6% of the total phenotypic variance across three field evaluations. To perform fine mapping of this QTL, we measured the basal root growth angle of crown roots at the seedling stage in seven BC(2)F(3) recombinant lines grown in small cups in a greenhouse. The QTL was mapped between markers RM21941 and RM21976, which delimit an 812-kb interval in the reference cultivar Nipponbare. We have designated this QTL qSOR1 (quantitative trait locus for SOIL SURFACE ROOTING 1).
21894632	This paper, focusing on two rice-farming villages where the Burmese government has experimented with a variety of agricultural programmes, explores the problems associated with rice implementation processes. In particular it looks at the basic structure and operation of agricultural administration — salary and income of government officials, the predominance of military officers in civilian ministries and departments, the creation of departments with overlapping responsibilities, and the hierarchical structure of the Agricultural Ministry — and highlight their limitations. It provides another aspect to evaluating the roots of poverty among average rice farmers.
21894958	As ae mutant rice, such as EM10, lacks the starch branching enzyme IIb, its amylopectin contains more long-chain glucans than that of ordinary Indica and Japonica rice grains. Although boiled grains of ae rice cultivars are too hard and nonsticky for table rice, they are promising in terms of biofunctionality, such as prevention of diabetes. The present paper investigates the characterization of a novel group of four ae mutant rice cultivars (EM72, EM145, EM174, and EM189). They were subjected to the evaluation for their main chemical components, physical properties, and enzyme activities at different grain conditions (raw milled rice, roasted rice, boiled rice, and rice boiled after preroasting). These mutant rice grains are characterized by high apparent amylose, high protein and high glucose contents, high pasting temperature, high α-amylase activities, high resistant starch, and low degree of gelatinization. A novel method was developed to maintain the high resistant starch contents of gelatinized rice grains. Rice boild after preroasting showed a higher ratio of resistant starch and a lower amount of glucose than ordinary boiled rice. It became possible to produce high-quality and biofunctional pregelatinized rice flours by boiling with frozen fruits, such as tomatoes, after rice grains had been preroasted. These ae mutants were found to be suitable materials for rice/fruit or rice/vegetable products to serve as palatable, low-glucose, and high resistant starch rice products.
21895349	Sponsorship is a basic and important part of the 12-step approach to recovery from substance abuse (Alcoholics Anonymous, 2005) and research has shown that having a sponsor is associated with increased involvement in 12-step programs and improved outcomes (Bond, Kaskutas, & Weisner, 2003; Tonigan & Rice, 2010). However, little is known about how sponsorship improves outcomes. Given research demonstrating bivariate associations between sponsorship and social support for abstinence (Majer, Jason, Ferrari, Venable, & Olson, 2002), we hypothesized that the association between having a sponsor and increased abstinence outcomes would be explained by increases in one's abstinence-based social network. Prospective fully lagged mediational analyses did not support this hypothesis and these results ran counter to findings of five previous studies (cf. Groh, Jason, & Keys, 2008). A review of these studies showed that researchers often used cross-sectional or partially lagged methods to test mediation and the mediational effect of the social network was small in magnitude. Results suggest that the prospective association between sponsorship and abstinence is not explained by increases in the abstinence-based social network and demonstrate the need for future studies to use rigorous and time-lagged methods to test social support for abstinence as a mediator of the effects of 12-step involvement.
21895812	The root system is a crucial determinant of plant growth potential because of its important functions, e.g. uptake of water and nutrients, structural support and interaction with symbiotic organisms. Elucidating the molecular mechanism of root development and functions is therefore necessary for improving plant productivity, particularly for crop plants, including rice (Oryza sativa). As an initial step towards developing a comprehensive understanding of the root system, we performed a large-scale transcriptome analysis of the rice root via a combined laser microdissection and microarray approach. The crown root was divided into eight developmental stages along the longitudinal axis and three radial tissue types at two different developmental stages, namely: epidermis, exodermis and sclerenchyma; cortex; and endodermis, pericycle and stele. We analyzed a total of 38 microarray data and identified 22,297 genes corresponding to 17,010 loci that showed sufficient signal intensity as well as developmental- and tissue type-specific transcriptome signatures. Moreover, we clarified gene networks associated with root cap function and lateral root formation, and further revealed antagonistic and synergistic interactions of phytohormones such as auxin, cytokinin, brassinosteroids and ethylene, based on the expression pattern of genes related to phytohormone biosynthesis and signaling. Expression profiling of transporter genes defined not only major sites for uptake and transport of water and nutrients, but also distinct signatures of the radial transport system from the rhizosphere to the xylem vessel for each nutrient. All data can be accessed from our gene expression profile database, RiceXPro (http://ricexpro.dna.affrc.go.jp), thereby providing useful information for understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in root system development of crop plants.
21895943	Recombinant proteins face major constraints along the plant cell secretory pathway, including proteolytic processing compromising their structural integrity. Here, we demonstrate the potential of protease inhibitors as in situ stabilizing agents for recombinant proteins migrating towards the leaf apoplast. Genomic data for Arabidopsis, rice and Nicotiana spp. were assessed to determine the relative incidence of protease families in the cell secretory pathway. Transient expression assays with the model platform Nicotiana benthamiana were then performed to test the efficiency of protease inhibitors in stabilizing proteins targeted to the apoplast. Current genomic data suggest the occurrence of proteases from several families along the secretory pathway, including A1 and A22 Asp proteases; C1A and C13 Cys proteases; and S1, S8 and S10 Ser proteases. In vitro protease assays confirmed the presence of various proteases in N. benthamiana leaves, notably pointing to the deposition of A1- and S1-type activities preferentially in the apoplast. Accordingly, transient expression and secretion of the A1/S1 protease inhibitor, tomato cathepsin D inhibitor (SlCDI), negatively altered A1 and S1 protease activities in this cell compartment, while increasing the leaf apoplast protein content by ∼45% and improving the accumulation of a murine diagnostic antibody, C5-1, co-secreted in the apoplast. SlCYS9, an inhibitor of C1A and C13 Cys proteases, had no impact on the apoplast proteases and protein content, but stabilized C5-1 in planta, presumably upstream in the secretory pathway. These data confirm, overall, the potential of protease inhibitors for the in situ protection of recombinant proteins along the plant cell secretory pathway.
21895944	Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV) is a persistent threat to wheat production, necessitating novel approaches for protection. We developed an artificial miRNA strategy against WSMV, incorporating five amiRNAs within one polycistronic amiRNA precursor. Using miRNA sequence and folding rules, we chose five amiRNAs targeting conserved regions of WSMV but avoiding off-targets in wheat. These replaced the natural miRNA in each of five arms of the polycistronic rice miR395, producing amiRNA precursor, FanGuard (FGmiR395), which was transformed into wheat behind a constitutive promoter. Splinted ligation detected all five amiRNAs being processed in transgenic leaves. Resistance was assessed over two generations. Three types of response were observed in T(1) plants of different transgenic families: completely immune; initially resistant with resistance breaking down over time; and initially susceptible followed by plant recovery. Deep sequencing of small RNAs from inoculated leaves allowed the virus sequence to be assembled from an immune transgenic, susceptible transgenic, and susceptible non-transgenic plant; the amiRNA targets were fully conserved in all three isolates, indicating virus replication on some transgenics was not a result of mutational escape by the virus. For resistant families, the resistance segregated with the transgene. Analysis in the T(2) generation confirmed the inheritance of immunity and gave further insights into the other phenotypes. Stable resistant lines developed no symptoms and no virus by ELISA; this resistance was classified as immunity when extracts failed to transmit from inoculated leaves to test plants. This study demonstrates the utility of a polycistronic amiRNA strategy in wheat against WSMV.
21895994	Discoveries about antimicrobial peptides and plant defence activators have made possible the de novo and rational design of novel peptides for use in crop protection. Here we report a novel chimeric protein, Hcm1, which was made by linking the active domains of cecropin A and melittin to the hypersensitive response (HR)-elicitor Hpa1 of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal agent of rice bacterial leaf streak. The resulting chimeric protein maintained not only the HR-inducing property of the harpin, but also the antimicrobial activity of the cecropin A-melittin hybrid. Hcm1 was purified from engineered Escherichia coli and evaluated in terms of the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) and the 50% effective dose (ED(50)) against important plant pathogenic bacteria and fungi. Importantly, the protein acted as a potential pesticide by inducing disease resistance for viral, bacterial and fungal pathogens. This designed drug can be considered as a lead compound for use in plant protection, either for the development of new broad-spectrum pesticides or for expression in transgenic plants.
21896240	To assess genetic diversity in populations of the brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål) (Homoptera: Delphacidae), we have developed and applied microsatellite, or simple sequence repeat (SSR), markers from expressed sequence tags (ESTs). We found that the brown planthopper clusters of ESTs were rich in SSRs with unique frequencies and distributions of SSR motifs. Three hundred and fifty-one EST-SSR markers were developed and yielded clear bands from samples of four brown planthopper populations. High cross-species transferability of these markers was detected in the closely related planthopper N. muiri. The newly developed EST-SSR markers provided sufficient resolution to distinguish within and among biotypes. Analyses based on SSR data revealed host resistance-based genetic differentiation among different brown planthopper populations; the genetic diversity of populations feeding on susceptible rice varieties was lower than that of populations feeding on resistant rice varieties. This is the first large-scale development of brown planthopper SSR markers, which will be useful for future molecular genetics and genomics studies of this serious agricultural pest.
21896764	DNA 5-methylcytosine (5-meC) is an important epigenetic mark for transcriptional gene silencing in many eukaryotes. In Arabidopsis, 5-meC DNA glycosylase/lyases actively remove 5-meC to counteract transcriptional gene silencing in a locus-specific manner, and have been suggested to maintain the expression of transposons. However, it is unclear whether plant DNA demethylases can promote the transposition of transposons. Here we report the functional characterization of the DNA glycosylase/lyase DNG701 in rice. DNG701 encodes a large (1,812 amino acid residues) DNA glycosylase domain protein. Recombinant DNG701 protein showed 5-meC DNA glycosylase and lyase activities in vitro. Knockout or knockdown of DNG701 in rice plants led to DNA hypermethylation and reduced expression of the retrotransposon Tos17. Tos17 showed less transposition in calli derived from dng701 knockout mutant seeds compared with that in wild-type calli. Overexpression of DNG701 in both rice calli and transgenic plants substantially reduced DNA methylation levels of Tos17 and enhanced its expression. The overexpression also led to more frequent transposition of Tos17 in calli. Our results demonstrate that rice DNG701 is a 5-meC DNA glycosylase/lyase responsible for the demethylation of Tos17 and this DNA demethylase plays a critical role in promoting Tos17 transposition in rice calli.
21897044	Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK) is a ubiquitous enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of the γ-phosphoryl group from a nucleoside triphosphate to a nucleoside diphosphate. In this study, we examined the subcellular localization, tissue-specific gene expression, and enzymatic characteristics of three rice NDPK isozymes (OsNDPK1-OsNDPK3). Sequence comparison of the three OsNDPKs suggested differential subcellular localization. Transient expression of green fluorescence protein-fused proteins in onion cells indicated that OsNDPK2 and OsNDPK3 are localized to plastid and mitochondria respectively, while OsNDPK1 is localized to the cytosol. Expression analysis indicated that all the OsNDPKs are expressed in the leaf, leaf sheath, and immature seeds, except for OsNDPK1, in the leaf sheath. Recombinant OsNDPK2 and OsNDPK3 showed lower optimum pH and higher stability under acidic pH than OsNDPK1. In ATP formation, all the OsNDPKs displayed lower K(m) values for the second substrate, ADP, than for the first substrate, NTP, and showed lowest and highest K(m) values for GTP and CTP respectively.
21898940	All is not well with agriculture in Southeast Asia. The productivity gains of the Green Revolution have slowed and even reversed and environmental problems and shortages of water and land are evident. At the same time changing world markets are shifting the dynamics of national agricultural economies. But from the point of view of farmers themselves, it is their season-to-season economic survival that is at stake. Bali is in some ways typical of other agricultural areas in the region, but it is also a special case because of its distinctive economic and cultural environment dominated by tourism. In this environment, farmers are doubly marginalized. At the same time the island offers them unique market opportunities for premium and organic produce. This article examines the ways in which these opportunities have been approached and describes their varying degrees of success. It focuses especially on one project that has been successful in reducing production costs by conversion to organic production, but less so in marketing its produce. It argues finally for the need for integrated studies of the entire rice production/marketing complex, especially from the bottom-up point of view of farmers.
21899054	OsGSTL2 is one of three tandem-arranged glutathione S-transferase, lambda class genes in chromosome 3 of rice (Oryza sativa L.). It includes 9 introns and 10 exons, and encodes a protein of 244 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 27.37 kDa. The predicted three-dimensional structure of OsGSTL2 showed a typical glutathione S-transferase fold. Using semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis, OsGSTL2 transcript was detected in the roots and leaves of seedling stage and tillering stage, and the roots, leaves and panicles of heading stage from rice plants, and the expression level of OsGSTL2 mRNA in rice roots show significant change under chlorsulfuron stress. The OsGSTL2 gene was cloned into pYTV vector and was transformed into yeast strain PEP4. Western blot analysis showed the exogenous OsGSTL2 was expressed in transformed yeast. GST activity of crude extracts of yeast showed the OsGSTL2 transgenic yeast had higher levels of GST activities than control yeasts. These findings suggested that the OsGSTL2 is a glutathione S-transferase and has potential use in detoxification.
21899436	Rice is atypical in that it is an agricultural cereal that is immune to fungal rust diseases. This report demonstrates that several cereal rust species (Puccinia graminis f. sp tritici, P. triticina, P. striiformis, and P. hordei) can infect rice and produce all the infection structures necessary for plant colonization, including specialized feeding cells (haustoria). Some rust infection sites are remarkably large and many plant cells are colonized, suggesting that nutrient uptake occurs to support this growth. Rice responds with an active, nonhost resistance (NHR) response that prevents fungal sporulation and that involves callose deposition, production of reactive oxygen species, and, occasionally, cell death. Genetic variation for the efficacy of NHR to wheat stem rust and wheat leaf rust was observed. Unlike cereal rusts, the rust pathogen (Melampsora lini) of the dicotyledenous plant flax (Linum usitatissimum) rarely successfully infects rice due to an apparent inability to recognize host-derived signals. Morphologically abnormal infection structures are produced and appressorial-like structures often don't coincide with stomata. These data suggest that basic compatibility is an important determinate of nonhost infection outcomes of rust diseases on cereals, with cereal rusts being more capable of infecting a cereal nonhost species compared with rust species that are adapted for dicot hosts.
21899437	Dickeya zeae is the causal agent of the rice foot rot disease, but its mechanism of infection remains largely unknown. In this study, we identified and characterized a novel gene designated as zmsA. The gene encodes a large protein of 2,346 amino acids in length, which consists of multidomains arranged in the order of N-terminus, β-ketoacyl synthase, acyl transferase, acyl carrier protein, β-ketoacyl reductase, dehydratase. This multidomain structure and sequence alignment analysis suggest that ZmsA is a member of the polyketide synthase family. Mutation of zmsA abolished antimicrobial activity and attenuated the virulence of D. zeae. To determine the relationship between antimicrobial activity and virulence, active compounds were purified from D. zeae EC1 and were structurally characterized. This led to identification of two polyamino compounds, i.e., zeamine and zeamine II, that were phytotoxins and potent antibiotics. These results have established the essential role of ZmsA in zeamine biosynthesis and presented a new insight on the molecular mechanisms of D. zeae pathogenicity.
21899789	To compare food and nutrient intakes from midday meals provided by schools with those from packed lunches and to estimate the contribution from food eaten at midday to the total daily energy and nutrient intakes of teenagers. Dietary data were recorded in 4 d estimated diaries of which 2 d were school days. The school day data were analysed for total and midday energy and nutrient intakes. The latter were compared with the recommendations of the Caroline Walker Trust (CWT). Cambridgeshire, UK, 2006. Teenagers (n 757) aged 14-15 years, from eighteen secondary schools, who reported food eaten at school. The contribution to total daily energy intake from all lunches eaten at school was 29 % (boys) and 28 % (girls). School meals provided greater quantities of protein, starch, carotene and folate but also more saturated fats and Na than packed lunches. Intakes of energy and several nutrients fell below the CWT recommendations for both types of lunch. School meals and packed lunches provided different types of foods; greater quantities of rice, pasta and vegetables in school meals; more yoghurt, cheese, fruit and juices but also more confectionery and soft drinks in packed lunches. There has been concern that schoolchildren who are not opting for lunch provided by schools are compromising the overall quality of their diet, but the present study showed small differences in nutrient content between packed and school lunches. These data were collected in 2005–2007 before the government programme of improvements reached secondary schools.
21899797	We previously suggested that the consumption of natto and viscous vegetables as part of a Japanese-style meal based on white rice (WR) reduced postprandial glucose and insulin levels in healthy subjects. The aim of the present study was to assess whether a single breakfast of natto and viscous vegetables or the same breakfast consumed for 2 weeks could improve glucose control, insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism and oxidative stress in overweight subjects with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). A total of eleven free-living subjects with IGT followed a randomised, crossover breakfast intervention for 2 weeks. The test meal included boiled WR with natto (viscous fermented soyabeans), Japanese yam and okra. The control meal included WR with non-viscous boiled soyabeans, potatoes and broccoli. Both meals contained comparable amounts of carbohydrate, fat, protein and fibre. The test meal reduced acute glucose and insulin responses compared to the control meal in the study participants. Insulin sensitivity was assessed using the composite insulin sensitivity index (CISI) after both the test and control meal periods. The test meal resulted in improvements in CISI compared to the baseline, whereas no significant changes were observed after the control meal period. Serum levels of both total and LDL-cholesterol were assessed before and after the test meal period and found to decrease significantly. There was also a tendency towards reduced serum malondialdehyde-modified LDL and N(ɛ)-carboxymethyllysine. No differences were observed in the measures of chronic glycaemic control. Thus, we conclude that a breakfast of natto and viscous vegetables consumed for 2 weeks improves insulin sensitivity, serum lipid and oxidative stress.
21899878	Rice is the staple food for the people of arsenic endemic South (S) and South-East (SE) Asian countries. In this region, arsenic contaminated groundwater has been used not only for drinking and cooking purposes but also for rice cultivation during dry season. Irrigation of arsenic-contaminated groundwater for rice cultivation has resulted high deposition of arsenic in topsoil and uptake in rice grain posing a serious threat to the sustainable agriculture in this region. In addition, cooking rice with arsenic-contaminated water also increases arsenic burden in cooked rice. Inorganic arsenic is the main species of S and SE Asian rice (80 to 91% of the total arsenic), and the concentration of this toxic species is increased in cooked rice from inorganic arsenic-rich cooking water. The people of Bangladesh and West Bengal (India), the arsenic hot spots in the world, eat an average of 450g rice a day. Therefore, in addition to drinking water, dietary intake of arsenic from rice is supposed to be another potential source of exposure, and to be a new disaster for the population of S and SE Asian countries. Arsenic speciation in raw and cooked rice, its bioavailability and the possible health hazard of inorganic arsenic in rice for the population of S and SE Asia have been discussed in this review.
21900035	Plants and microbes produce multiple carotenoid pigments with important nutritional roles in animals. By unraveling the basis of carotenoid biosynthesis it has become possible to modulate the key metabolic steps in plants and thus increase the nutritional value of staple crops, such as rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays) and potato (Solanum tuberosum). Multigene engineering has been used to modify three different metabolic pathways simultaneously, producing maize seeds with higher levels of carotenoids, folate and ascorbate. This strategy may allow the development of nutritionally enhanced staples providing adequate amounts of several unrelated nutrients. By focusing on different steps in the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway, it is also possible to generate plants with enhanced levels of several nutritionally-beneficial carotenoid molecules simultaneously.
21901091	RNA silencing, mediated by small RNAs including microRNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), is a potent antiviral or antibacterial mechanism, besides regulating normal cellular gene expression critical for development and physiology. To gain insights into host small RNA metabolism under infections by different viruses, we used Solexa/Illumina deep sequencing to characterize the small RNA profiles of rice plants infected by two distinct viruses, Rice dwarf virus (RDV, dsRNA virus) and Rice stripe virus (RSV, a negative sense and ambisense RNA virus), respectively, as compared with those from non-infected plants. Our analyses showed that RSV infection enhanced the accumulation of some rice miRNA*s, but not their corresponding miRNAs, as well as accumulation of phased siRNAs from a particular precursor. Furthermore, RSV infection also induced the expression of novel miRNAs in a phased pattern from several conserved miRNA precursors. In comparison, no such changes in host small RNA expression was observed in RDV-infected rice plants. Significantly RSV infection elevated the expression levels of selective OsDCLs and OsAGOs, whereas RDV infection only affected the expression of certain OsRDRs. Our results provide a comparative analysis, via deep sequencing, of changes in the small RNA profiles and in the genes of RNA silencing machinery induced by different viruses in a natural and economically important crop host plant. They uncover new mechanisms and complexity of virus-host interactions that may have important implications for further studies on the evolution of cellular small RNA biogenesis that impact pathogen infection, pathogenesis, as well as organismal development.
21901311	Proper disposal and/or recycling of different industrial waste materials have long been recognized as a prime environmental concern throughout the world, and fly ash is major amongst them. In the present study, we tried to assess the feasibilities of possible effective and safe utilization of fly ash as soil amendment in Indian paddy field and its impact on rice plants, especially at growth and yield level. Our results showed that certain doses of fly ash amendments have significantly improved the physico-chemical and mineralogical properties of paddy field soil, and at lower level of amendments, fly ash induced the growth performances of three rice cultivars too. Grain yield and grain quality also responded similarly as per the growth responses. However, differential cultivar response was observed accordingly, and cultivar Sugandha-3 showed higher yield as compared with cultivars Sambha and Saryu-52. Based on the observed results, it was concluded that up to a certain level, fly ash amendments could be beneficial for Indian paddy field and can be utilized as feasible management strategy for the disposal of this major industrial waste.
21901547	Recent advances in whole genome sequencing (WGS) have allowed identification of genes for disease susceptibility in humans. The objective of our research was to exploit whole genome sequences of 13 rice (Oryza sativa L.) inbred lines to identify non-synonymous SNPs (nsSNPs) and candidate genes for resistance to sheath blight, a disease of worldwide significance. WGS by the Illumina GA IIx platform produced an average 5× coverage with ~700 K variants detected per line when compared to the Nipponbare reference genome. Two filtering strategies were developed to identify nsSNPs between two groups of known resistant and susceptible lines. A total of 333 nsSNPs detected in the resistant lines were absent in the susceptible group. Selected variants associated with resistance were found in 11 of 12 chromosomes. More than 200 genes with selected nsSNPs were assigned to 42 categories based on gene family/gene ontology. Several candidate genes belonged to families reported in previous studies, and three new regions with novel candidates were also identified. A subset of 24 nsSNPs detected in 23 genes was selected for further study. Individual alleles of the 24 nsSNPs were evaluated by PCR whose presence or absence corresponded to known resistant or susceptible phenotypes of nine additional lines. Sanger sequencing confirmed presence of 12 selected nsSNPs in two lines. "Resistant" nsSNP alleles were detected in two accessions of O. nivara that suggests sources for resistance occur in additional Oryza sp. Results from this study provide a foundation for future basic research and marker-assisted breeding of rice for sheath blight resistance.
21903154	Open field, variability of climatic and working conditions, and the use of complex mixtures of pesticides makes biological and environmental monitoring in agriculture, and therefore risk assessment and management, very complicated. A need of pointing out alternative risk assessment approaches, not necessarily based on measures, but simple, user-friendly and reliable, feasible also in the less advanced situations and in particular in small size enterprises, arises. This aim can be reached through a combination of environmental monitoring, biological monitoring and computational modelling. We have used this combination of methods for the creation of "exposure and risk profiles" to be applied in specific exposure scenarios, and we have tested this approach on a sample of Italian rice and maize herbicide applicators. We have given specific "toxicity scores" to the different products used and we have identified, for each of the major working phases, that is mixing and loading, spraying, maintenance and cleaning of equipment, the main variables affecting exposure and inserted them into a simple algorithm, able to produce "exposure indices". Based on the combination of toxicity indices and exposure indices it is possible to obtain semiquantitative estimates of the risk levels experienced by the workers in the exposure scenarios considered. Results of operator exposure data collected under real-life conditions can be used to validate and refine the algorithms; moreover, the AOEL derived from pre-marketing studies can be combined to estimate tentative biological exposure limits for pesticides, useful to perform individual risk assessment based on technical surveys and on simple biological monitoring. A proof of principle example of this approach is the subject of this article.
21903288	Internal fruit rot, caused by Fusarium lactis, is an important disease of sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum) in Canadian greenhouses. Production of the mycotoxins fumonisin B₁ (FB₁), moniliformin (MON) and beauvericin (BEA) by F. lactis (17 isolates) and the related species F. proliferatum (three isolates) and F. verticillioides (one isolate), which are also associated with internal fruit rot, was evaluated on rice medium. All 21 isolates examined were found to produce BEA, at concentrations ranging from 13.28 to 1674.60 ppm, while 13 of 17 F. lactis isolates and two of three F. proliferatum isolates produced MON (0.23 to 181.85 ppm). Only one isolate of F. lactis produced detectable levels of FB₁ in culture, whereas all three F. proliferatum isolates and the F. verticilloides isolate produced this mycotoxin (0.28 to 314 ppm). Production of FB₁, MON and BEA was also evaluated in inoculated pepper fruits showing mild or severe symptoms of infection. FB₁ could be detected in both lightly and heavily diseased fruit tissue after inoculation with F. lactis, F. proliferatum or F. verticilloides, at concentrations ranging from 0.61 to 8.04 ppm. BEA was also detected in lightly and heavily diseased fruit tissue inoculated with F. lactis, as well as in heavily diseased tissue inoculated with F. proliferatum (3.00 to 19.43 ppm), but not in tissue inoculated with F. verticilloides. MON was detected in all tissues inoculated with F. proliferatum or F. verticilloides, and in heavily diseased tissue inoculated with F. lactis (0.03 to 0.27 ppm). The three mycotoxins were also found in naturally infected sweet pepper fruits exhibiting symptoms of internal fruit rot and collected from a commercial greenhouse. The production of MON, BEA and FB₁ alone or in combination by isolates of F. lactis suggests that development of internal fruit rot of sweet pepper is an important food safety concern, and that every effort should be made to cull infected fruit before it makes it to market.
21904112	The production of transgenic plants has contributed greatly to plant research. Previously, an improved method for screening transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana seeds using the FAST (Fluorescence-Accumulating-Seed Technology) method and FAST marker was reported. Arabidopsis seeds containing the FAST marker may be visually screened using a fluorescence stereomicroscope or blue LED handy-type instrument. Although the FAST method was originally designed for Arabidopsis screens, this study endeavors to adapt this method for the screening of other plants. Here, an optimized technology, designated the OsFAST method, is presented as a useful tool for screening transgenic rice seeds. The OsFAST method is based on the expression of the OsFAST-G marker under the control of a seed-embryo-specific promoter, similar to the Arabidopsis FAST-G marker. The OsFAST method provides a simple and non-destructive method for identifying transgenic rice seeds. It is proposed that the FAST method is adaptable to various plant species and will enable a deeper analysis of the floral-dip method.
21908441	The bulk of grass biomass potentially useful for cellulose-based biofuel production is the remains of secondary wall-containing sclerenchymatous fibers. Hence, it is important to uncover the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of secondary wall thickening in grass species. So far, little is known about the transcriptional regulatory switches responsible for the activation of the secondary wall biosynthetic program in grass species. Here, we report the roles of a group of rice and maize NAC and MYB transcription factors in the regulation of secondary wall biosynthesis. The rice and maize secondary wall-associated NACs (namely OsSWNs and ZmSWNs) were able to complement the Arabidopsis snd1 nst1 double mutant defective in secondary wall thickening. When overexpressed in Arabidopsis, OsSWNs and ZmSWNs were sufficient to activate a number of secondary wall-associated transcription factors and secondary wall biosynthetic genes, and concomitantly result in the ectopic deposition of cellulose, xylan and lignin. It was also found that the rice and maize MYB transcription factors, OsMYB46 and ZmMYB46, are functional orthologs of Arabidopsis MYB46/MYB83 and, when overexpressed in Arabidopsis, they were able to activate the entire secondary wall biosynthetic program. Furthermore, the promoters of OsMYB46 and ZmMYB46 contain secondary wall NAC-binding elements (SNBEs), which can be bound and activated by OsSWNs and ZmSWNs. Together, our results indicate that the rice and maize SWNs and MYB46 are master transcriptional activators of the secondary wall biosynthetic program and that OsSWNs and ZmSWNs activate their direct target genes through binding to the SNBE sites.
21908474	The contamination of food crops by cadmium (Cd) is a major concern in food production because it can reduce crop yields and threaten human health. In this study, knockout rice plants (Oryza sativa) tagged with the gene trap vector pGA2707 were screened for Cd tolerance, and the tolerant line lcd was obtained. The lcd mutant showed tolerance to Cd on agar plates and in hydroponic culture during early plant development. Metal concentration measurements in hydroponically grown plants revealed significantly less Cd in the shoots of lcd plants compared with wild-type (WT) shoots. When cultured in the field in soil artificially contaminated with low levels of Cd, lcd showed no significant difference in the Cd content of its leaf blades; however, the Cd concentration in the grains was 55% lower in 2009 and 43% lower in 2010. There were no significant differences in plant dry weight or seed yield between lcd and wild-type plants. LCD, a novel gene, is not homologous to any other known gene. LCD localized to the cytoplasm and nucleus, and was expressed mainly in the vascular tissues in the roots and phloem companion cells in the leaves. These data indicate that lcd may be useful for understanding Cd transport mechanisms and is a promising candidate rice line for use in combating the threat of Cd to human health.
21908855	Calmodulin (CaM) transduces the increase in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations by binding to and altering the activities of target proteins, thereby affecting the physiological responses to the vast array of stimuli. Here, we examined the purified recombinant proteins encoded by three Cam and eight Cam-like (CML) genes from rice. With the exception of one OsCML, all recombinant proteins could be purified by Ca(2+)-dependent hydrophobic chromatography and exhibited an electrophoretic mobility shift when incubated with Ca(2+). The three CaMs all bound CaM kinase II peptide, but none of the eight CMLs did, suggesting a possible differential target binding between the CaM and CML proteins. In addition, their conformational changes upon Ca(2+)-binding were evaluated by circular dichroism spectroscopy and fluorescence spectroscopy using 8-Anilino-1-naphthalene-sulfonic acid. Taken together, OsCMLs were found exhibiting a spectrum of both structural and functional characteristics that ranged from typical to atypical of CaMs. From structural comparison, the OsCMLs have overall main-chain conformation nearly identical to OsCaMs, but with distinct distribution of some charged and hydrophobic amino acids on their target-binding site. These results suggest that genetic polymorphism has promoted the functional diversity of the OsCML family, whose members possess modes of actions probably different from, though maybe overlapping with, those of OsCaMs.
21909461	Efficacy of a new patented proprietary combination of natural nutraceuticals (PN) containing natural hypolipidemic as red yeast, policosanol and berberine was tested in a large study on dyslipidemic patients in clinical practice. A parallel, controlled, randomized, multicenter study was designed. After 2 weeks on a stable dietary regimen, the patients were randomized to PN 1 tablet/day associated with diet (PN + D) or diet alone (D) for 16 weeks. Entry criteria were: Tot-Chol >200 mg/dL or LDL-Chol >150 mg/dL without a clear indication for statins, or plasma triglycerides >150 mg/dL. Lipid pattern and CV parameters were evaluated at baseline and monthly. 1,751 patients were enrolled in 248 Italian units, 933 patients on PN + D and 818 on D. The baseline lipid values were: Tot-Chol 255.4 versus 243.1 mg/dL, LDL-Chol 170.1 versus 162.2 mg/dL, HDL-Chol 50.0 versus 48.8 mg/dL, and TG 190.5 versus 184.4 mg/dL. PN constantly and significantly improved lipid parameters versus D group: at 16 weeks -19.1 versus -9.4% for Tot-Chol (p < 0.001), -23.5 versus -10.8% for LDL-Chol (p < 0.001), +11.6 versus +4.0% for HDL-Chol (p < 0.001), -17.9 versus -11.3% for TG (p < 0.001). In conclusions, PN plus diet allows an effective improvement of blood lipids with a significant reduction of global CV risk, suggesting a role for PN in CHD prevention.
21909680	Rice straw is a lignocellulosic biomass that constitutes a renewable organic substance and alternative source of energy; however, its structure confounds the liberation of monosaccharides. Pretreating rice straw using a TiO(2)/UV system facilitated its hydrolysis with Accellerase 1000(™), suggesting that hydroxyl radicals (OH·) from the TiO(2)/UV system could degrade lignin and carbohydrates. TiO(2)/UV pretreatment was an essential step for conversion of hemicellulose to xylose; optimal conditions for this conversion were a TiO(2) concentration of 0.1% (w/v) and an irradiation time of 2 h with a UV-C lamp at 254 nm. After enzymatic hydrolysis, the sugar yields from rice straw pretreated with these parameters were 59.8 ± 0.7% of the theoretical for glucose (339 ± 13 mg/g rice straw) and 50.3 ± 2.8% for xylose (64 ± 3 mg/g rice straw). The fermentation of enzymatic hydrolysates containing 10.5 g glucose/L and 3.2 g xylose/L with Pichia stipitis produced 3.9 g ethanol/L with a corresponding yield of 0.39 g/g rice straw. The maximum possible ethanol conversion rate is 76.47%. TiO(2)/UV pretreatment can be performed at room temperature and atmospheric pressure and demonstrates potential in large-scale production of fermentable sugars.
21909937	Tyramine, one of the various biogenic amines found in plants, is derived from the aromatic L-amino acid tyrosine through the catalytic reaction of tyrosine decarboxylase (TYDC). Tyramine overproduction by constitutive expression of TYDC in rice plants leads to stunted growth, but an increased number of tillers. To regulate tyramine production in rice plants, we expressed TYDC under the control of a methanol-inducible plant tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) promoter and generated transgenic T(2) homozygous rice plants. The transgenic rice plants showed normal growth phenotypes with slightly increased levels of tyramine in seeds relative to wild type. Upon treatment with 1% methanol, the transgenic rice leaves produced large amounts of tyramine, whereas no increase in tyramine production was observed in wild-type plants. The methanol-induced accumulation of tyramine in the transgenic rice leaves was inversely correlated with the tyrosine level. These data indicate that tyramine production in rice plants can be artificially controlled using the methanol-inducible TDC promoter, suggesting that this promoter could be used to selectively induce the expression of other proteins or metabolites in rice plants.
21910016	Genetically modified plants expressing disease resistance traits offer new treatment strategies for human diseases, but at the same time present a challenge in terms of food safety assessment. The present 90-day feeding study was designed to assess the safety of transgenic rice expressing the recombinant human insulin-like growth factor-1 (rhIGF-1) compared to its parental wild rice. Male and female C57BL/6J rats were given a nutritionally balanced purified diet with 20% transgenic rhIGF-1 rice or 20% parental rice for 90 days. This corresponds to a mean daily rhIGF-1 protein intake of approximately 217.6 mg/kg body weight based on the average feed consumption. In the animal study a range of biological, biochemical, clinical, microbiological and pathological parameters were examined and several significant differences were observed between groups, but none of the effects were considered to be adverse. In conclusion, no adverse or toxic effects on C57BL/6J rats were observed in the design used in this 90-day study. These results will provide valuable information for the safety assessment of genetically modified food crops.
21910639	Arthropod-resistant crops provide significant ecological and economic benefits to global agriculture. Incompatible interactions involving resistant plants and avirulent pest arthropods are mediated by constitutively produced and arthropod-induced plant proteins and defense allelochemicals synthesized by resistance gene products. Cloning and molecular mapping have identified the Mi-1.2 and Vat arthropod resistance genes as CC-NBS-LRR (coiled coil-nucleotide binding site-leucine rich repeat) subfamily NBS-LRR resistance proteins, as well as several resistance gene analogs. Genetic linkage mapping has identified more than 100 plant resistance gene loci and linked molecular markers used in cultivar development. Rice and sorghum arthropod-resistant cultivars and, to a lesser extent, raspberry and wheat cultivars are components of integrated pest management (IPM) programs in Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America. Nevertheless, arthropod resistance in most food and fiber crops has not been integrated due primarily to the application of synthetic insecticides. Plant and arthropod genomics provide many opportunities to more efficiently develop arthropod-resistant plants, but integration of resistant cultivars into IPM programs will succeed only through interdisciplinary collaboration.
21910771	The temporal and spatial control of meristem identity is a key element in plant development. To better understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate inflorescence and flower architecture, we characterized the rice aberrant panicle organization 2 (apo2) mutant which exhibits small panicles with reduced number of primary branches due to the precocious formation of spikelet meristems. The apo2 mutants also display a shortened plastochron in the vegetative phase, late flowering, aberrant floral organ identities and loss of floral meristem determinacy. Map-based cloning revealed that APO2 is identical to previously reported RFL gene, the rice ortholog of the Arabidopsis LEAFY (LFY) gene. Further analysis indicated that APO2/RFL and APO1, the rice ortholog of Arabidopsis UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS, act cooperatively to control inflorescence and flower development. The present study revealed functional differences between APO2/RFL and LFY. In particular, APO2/RFL and LFY act oppositely on inflorescence development. Therefore, the genetic mechanisms for controlling inflorescence architecture have evolutionarily diverged between rice (monocots) and Arabidopsis (eudicots).
21910826	Water absorption is a prerequisite for seed germination. During imbibition, water influx causes the resumption of many physiological and metabolic processes in growing seed. In order to obtain more complete knowledge about the mechanism of seed germination, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis was applied to investigate the protein profile changes of rice seed during the first 48 h of imbibition. Thirty-nine differentially expressed proteins were identified, including 19 down-regulated and 20 up-regulated proteins. Storage proteins and some seed development- and desiccation-associated proteins were down regulated. The changed patterns of these proteins indicated extensive mobilization of seed reserves. By contrast, catabolism-associated proteins were up regulated upon imbibition. Semi-quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that most of the genes encoding the down- or up-regulated proteins were also down or up regulated at mRNA level. The expression of these genes was largely consistent at mRNA and protein levels. In providing additional information concerning gene regulation in early plant life, this study will facilitate understanding of the molecular mechanisms of seed germination.
21911595	Although phyAphyBphyC phytochrome-null mutants in rice (Oryza sativa) have morphological changes and exhibit internode elongation, even as seedlings, it is unknown how phytochromes contribute to the control of internode elongation. A gene for 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase (ACO1), which is an ethylene biosynthesis gene contributing to internode elongation, was up-regulated in phyAphyBphyC seedlings. ACO1 expression was controlled mainly by phyA and phyB, and a histochemical analysis showed that ACO1 expression was localized to the basal parts of leaf sheaths of phyAphyBphyC seedlings, similar to mature wild-type plants at the heading stage, when internode elongation was greatly promoted. In addition, the transcription levels of several ethylene- or gibberellin (GA)-related genes were changed in phyAphyBphyC mutants, and measurement of the plant hormone levels indicated low ethylene production and bioactive GA levels in the phyAphyBphyC mutants. We demonstrate that ethylene induced internode elongation and ACO1 expression in phyAphyBphyC seedlings but not in the wild type and that the presence of bioactive GAs was necessary for these effects. These findings indicate that phytochromes contribute to multiple steps in the control of internode elongation, such as the expression of the GA biosynthesis gene OsGA3ox2, ACO1 expression, and the onset of internode elongation.
21912213	Root development is sensitive to environmental stimuli. We have recently reported that the light signal could promote the helical growth of seminal roots and drive the wavy root morphology in rice (Oryza sativa L.) young seedlings. The light-stimulated wavy roots were mostly performed in indica-type rice varieties (e.g. Taichung Native 1; TCN1) but not in japonica rice (e.g. Tainung 67; TNG67). Here, we demonstrated that the light-driven circumutation trajectory of TCN1 seminal roots could be changed if the seedling roots were grown in the medium containing high concentration of Phytagel. The data showed the root morphology would be modulated from wavy to curling when the Phytagel concentration was increased to 2%. However, the touch-stimulated curling root phenotype could not be performed in dark. In addition, the touch-induced curling roots were not appeared in the TNG67 rice cultivar. Although touch stimuli could not induce wavy/curling root phenotype in dark, it could modify the light-promoted helical growth to conduct curling roots in TCN1 rice seedlings. Thus, it was suggested that there is a crosstalk mechanism between touching-induced root curling and light-stimulated root waving.
21912852	3' untranslated regions (UTRs) are important sequence elements that modulate the expression of genes. We evaluated the potential of the 3'-UTRs of 9 seed storage protein (SSP) genes as terminators in enhancing the expression of the β-glucuronidase (gus A) reporter gene driven by the glutelin GluB-3 promoter in stable transgenic rice lines. Six of the 3'-UTRs significantly enhanced the activity of the GluB-3 promoter without changing its tissue specificity but altered its expression pattern in endosperm. With the 3'-UTRs of GluB-5, GluA-2 and GluC, the expression of gus A was higher by 3.12-, 2.45- and 2.14-fold, respectively, than with the Nos terminator. These three 3'-UTRs, combined with GluC, Ubi-1 and CaMV35S promoters, also increased GUS levels in stable transgenic rice lines or in transient expression in protoplasts, which indicated that the enhancements were independent of the promoter sequence. The increase in protein production was accompanied by altered mRNA levels, which suggests that the enhancements were due to increased transcript level. The 3'-UTRs of GluB-5, GluA-2 and GluC, when combined with strong promoters, might be ideal candidates for high production of recombinant proteins in rice seeds. The 9 SSP 3'-UTRs could function as faithful terminators in mono- or multi-gene transformation avoiding homology-based gene silencing.
21912859	Cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) catalyzes the last step of monolignol biosynthesis. The rice genome contains 12 CAD-like genes, and whereas the proteins encoded by OsCAD2 and OsCAD7 are known to function in monolignol biosynthesis, the degree to which these enzymes contribute to this process and the involvement of the enzymes encoded by the remaining ten genes is unclear. This paper investigates the role of OsCAD2 and the nine other OsCAD-like proteins in monolignol biosynthesis. Among the OsCAD genes analyzed, OsCAD2, an enzyme belonging to the bona fide CAD phylogenetic group, was the most abundantly expressed gene in the uppermost internode, and was expressed at levels that were more than seven times greater than those of the second most abundantly expressed gene, OsCAD1. Promoter-GUS analysis of OsCAD2 (pCAD::GUS) in the internode, sheath, and roots revealed that GUS expression was strong in tissues that accumulated high levels of lignin. Furthermore, expression always preceded lignin accumulation, showing the tight correlation between OsCAD2 expression and monolignol biosynthesis. Additionally, expression of pCAD::GUS was well synchronized with that of rice caffeic acid 3-O-methyltransferase (OsCOMT::GUS), suggesting that the two enzymes function cooperatively during monolignol biosynthesis. Co-expression network analysis of eight OsCAD genes further revealed that, among the OsCAD genes, expression of OsCAD2 was most tightly associated with the transcription of lignin biosynthesis-related genes. These results suggest that OsCAD2 is largely responsible for monolignol biosynthesis in rice, which is similar to that indicated for the predominant role of other plant bona fide CAD protein to monolignol biosynthesis.
21912860	Tillering is an important trait of cereal crops that optimizes plant architecture for maximum yield. Teosinte Branched 1 (TB1) is a negative regulator of lateral branching and an inducer of female inflorescence formation in Zea mays (maize). Recent studies indicate that TB1 homologs in Oryza sativa (rice), Sorghum bicolor and Arabidopsis thaliana act downstream of the auxin and MORE AUXILIARY GROWTH (MAX) pathways. However, the molecular mechanism by which rice produces tillers remains unknown. In this study, transgenic rice plants were produced that overexpress the maize TB1 (mTB1) or rice TB1 (OsTB1) genes and silence the OsTB1 gene through RNAi-mediated knockdown. Because lateral branching in rice is affected by the environmental conditions, the phenotypes of transgenic plants were observed in both the greenhouse and the paddy field. Compared to wild-type plants, the number of tillers and panicles was reduced and increased in overexpressed and RNAi-mediated knockdown OsTB1 rice plants, respectively, under both environmental conditions. However, the effect was small for plants grown in paddy fields. These results demonstrate that both mTB1 and OsTB1 moderately regulate the tiller development in rice.
21913074	Restriction landmark genome scanning (RLGS) method is a high-resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis system for analyses of the whole genome DNA which is including methylation status. It has been used for cloning genes of model animals and human genomes, detection of imprinted genes, and genome-wide methylation research in cancer. The conventional RLGS detected both polymorphism and methylated NotI sites between samples. Here, we have developed improved RLGS method with isoschizomer restriction enzymes such as MspI and HpaII to specifically detect methylated sites, using differential sensitivity of the restriction enzymes to methylated sequences. Recently, by using the genome database information, the RLGS spot sites were efficiently identified by this improved method. Then, genome methylation sites of Arabidopsis were mapped, and a unique inheritance was detected in methylated gene in rice. Now, epigenetic research becomes easy with the improved RLGS and it also can be applied for animal genome. Therefore, RLGS method is useful to explore for novel epigenetic phenomenon.
21913501	Methoprene, an insect growth regulator, was evaluated under field conditions against the main malaria vectors in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The effect of 5, 10 and 20 kg ha(-1) concentration ofmethoprene granule formulation and 100 and 200 mL ha(-1) concentration of EC formulation was measured to determine any changes in Anophelini larval abundance and IE ratio in both rice fields and artificial ponds. In artificial ponds, granular methoprene at a dose of 20 kg ha(-1) inhibited adult emergence by 77.1% after 1 day and 65.9% after 3 days. The emulsifiable concentrate formulation of methoprene at 200 mL ha(-1) inhibited adult emergence by 83.7% after 1 day and 32.2% after 3 days. In rice fields, inhibition of emergence was 44.3% at 20 kg ha(-1) granule and 35.8% for emulsifiable concentrate at 200 mL ha(-1) after 3 days. The results vary depending on the mosquito species, treatment methods, breeding places and type of formulation.
21913675	The physiological effects of the hydrolysates of white rice protein (WRP), brown rice protein (BRP), and soy protein (SP) hydrolyzed by the food grade enzyme, alcalase2.4 L, were compared to the original protein source. Male Syrian Golden hamsters were fed high-fat diets containing either 20% casein (control) or 20% extracted proteins or their hydrolysates as the protein source for 3 weeks. The brown rice protein hydrolysate (BRPH) diet group reduced weight gain 76% compared with the control. Animals fed the BRPH supplemented diet also had lower final body weight, liver weight, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C), and liver cholesterol, and higher fecal fat and bile acid excretion than the control. Expression levels of hepatic genes for lipid oxidation, PPARα, ACOX1, and CPT1, were highest for hamsters fed the BRPH supplemented diet. Expression of CYP7A1, the gene regulating bile acid synthesis, was higher in all test groups. Expression of CYP51, a gene coding for an enzyme involved in cholesterol synthesis, was highest in the BRPH diet group. The results suggest that BRPH includes unique peptides that reduce weight gain and hepatic cholesterol synthesis.
21914650	Cell wall hemicellulosic polysaccharides are structurally complex and diverse. Knowledge about the synthesis of cell wall hemicelluloses and their biological roles is limited. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping is a helpful tool for the dissection of complex phenotypes for gene identification. In this study, we exploited the natural variation in cell wall monosaccharide levels between a common wild rice, Yuanj, and an elite indica cultivar, Teqing, and performed QTL mapping with their introgression lines (ILs). Chemical analyses conducted on the culms of Yuanj and Teqing showed that the major alterations are found in glucose and xylose levels, which are correlated with specific hemicellulosic polymers. Glycosidic linkage examination revealed that, in Yuanj, an increase in glucose content results from a higher level of mixed linkage β-glucan (MLG), whereas a reduction in xylose content reflects a low level of xylan backbone and a varied arabinoxylan (AX) structure. Seventeen QTLs for monosaccharides have been identified through composition analysis of the culm residues of 95 core ILs. Four major QTLs affecting xylose and glucose levels are responsible for 19 and 21% of the phenotypic variance, respectively. This study provides a unique resource for the genetic dissection of rice cell wall formation and remodeling in the vegetative organs.
21914651	Lateral roots are important to plants for the uptake of nutrients and water. Several members of the Aux/IAA family have been shown to play crucial roles in lateral root development. Here, a member of the rice Aux/IAA family genes, OsIAA11 (LOC_Os03g43400), was isolated from a rice mutant defective in lateral root development. The gain-of-function mutation in OsIAA11 strictly blocks the initiation of lateral root primordia, but it does not affect crown root development. The expression of OsIAA11 is defined in root tips, lateral root caps, steles, and lateral root primordia. The auxin reporter DR5-GUS (β-glucuronidase) was expressed at lower levels in the mutant than in wild-type, indicating that OsIAA11 is involved in auxin signaling in root caps. The transcript abundance of both OsPIN1b and OsPIN10a was diminished in root tips of the Osiaa11 mutant. Taken together, the results indicate that the gain-of-function mutation in OsIAA11 caused the inhibition of lateral root development in rice.
21914655	The flower of rice diverged from those of model eudicot species such as Arabidopsis, Antirrhinum, or Petunia, and is thus of great interest in developmental and evolutionary biology. Specific to grass species, including rice, are the structural units of the inflorescence called the spikelet and floret, which comprise grass-specific peripheral organs and conserved sexual organs. Recent advances in molecular genetic studies have provided an understanding of the functions of rapidly increasing numbers of genes involved in rice flower development. The genetic framework of rice flower development is in part similar to that of model eudicots. However, rice also probably recruits specific genetic mechanisms, which probably contribute to the establishment of the specific floral architecture of rice. In this review, the molecular genetic mechanisms of rice flowering are outlined, focusing on recent information and in comparison with those of model eudicots.
21914668	Rice sucrose synthase 3 (RSUS3) is expressed predominantly in rice seed endosperm and is thought to play an important role in starch filling during the milky stage of rice seed ripening. Because the genetic diversity of this locus is not known yet, the full sequence of RSUS3 from 43 rice varieties was amplified to examine the distribution of DNA polymorphisms. A total of 254 sequence variants, including SNPs and insertion/deletions, were successfully identified in the 7733 bp sequence that comprises the promoter, exons and introns, and 3' downstream nontranscribed region (NTR). Eleven haplotypes were distinguished among the 43 rice varieties based on nucleotide variation in the 3 defined regions (5' NTR, transcript, and 3' NTR). The promoter region showed evidence of a base change on a cis-element that might influence the functional role of the motif in seed-specific expression. The genetic diversity of the RSUS3 gene sequences in the rice germplasm used in this study appears to be the result of nonrandom processes. Analysis of polymorphism sites indicated that at least 11 recombinations have occurred, primarily in the transcribed region. This finding provides insight into the development of a cladistic approach for establishing future genetic association studies of the RSUS3 locus.
21915109	Asian rice, Oryza sativa is a cultivated, inbreeding species that feeds over half of the world's population. Understanding the genetic basis of diverse physiological, developmental, and morphological traits provides the basis for improving yield, quality and sustainability of rice. Here we show the results of a genome-wide association study based on genotyping 44,100 SNP variants across 413 diverse accessions of O. sativa collected from 82 countries that were systematically phenotyped for 34 traits. Using cross-population-based mapping strategies, we identified dozens of common variants influencing numerous complex traits. Significant heterogeneity was observed in the genetic architecture associated with subpopulation structure and response to environment. This work establishes an open-source translational research platform for genome-wide association studies in rice that directly links molecular variation in genes and metabolic pathways with the germplasm resources needed to accelerate varietal development and crop improvement.
21915334	Rice is the primary source of food for billions of people in developing countries, yet the commonly consumed polished grain contains insufficient levels of the key micronutrients iron (Fe), zinc (Zn) and Vitamin A to meet daily dietary requirements. Experts estimate that a rice-based diet should contain 14.5 µg g(-1) Fe in endosperm, the main constituent of polished grain, but breeding programs have failed to achieve even half of that value. Transgenic efforts to increase the Fe concentration of rice endosperm include expression of ferritin genes, nicotianamine synthase genes (NAS) or ferritin in conjunction with NAS genes, with results ranging from two-fold increases via single-gene approaches to six-fold increases via multi-gene approaches, yet no approach has reported 14.5 µg g(-1) Fe in endosperm. Three populations of rice were generated to constitutively overexpress OsNAS1, OsNAS2 or OsNAS3, respectively. Nicotianamine, Fe and Zn concentrations were significantly increased in unpolished grain of all three of the overexpression populations, relative to controls, with the highest concentrations in the OsNAS2 and OsNAS3 overexpression populations. Selected lines from each population had at least 10 µg g(-1) Fe in polished grain and two OsNAS2 overexpression lines had 14 and 19 µg g(-1) Fe in polished grain, representing up to four-fold increases in Fe concentration. Two-fold increases of Zn concentration were also observed in the OsNAS2 population. Synchrotron X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy demonstrated that OsNAS2 overexpression leads to significant enrichment of Fe and Zn in phosphorus-free regions of rice endosperm. The OsNAS genes, particularly OsNAS2, show enormous potential for Fe and Zn biofortification of rice endosperm. The results demonstrate that rice cultivars overexpressing single rice OsNAS genes could provide a sustainable and genetically simple solution to Fe and Zn deficiency disorders affecting billions of people throughout the world.
21915618	The objective of this study was to analyse the effects of different levels of rumen-degradable protein (RDP) on intake, digestibility and microbial protein synthesis by supplementing mustard oil cake (MOC) on rice straw-based diet of cattle (Bos indicus) in Bangladesh. A 4 × 4 Latin square design was applied. Four diets having constant energy (7.0 MJ/kg of dry matter (DM)) with varying levels of RDP (M(0) = 4.1 g/MJ (control), M(1) = 6.3 g/MJ, M(2) = 8.3 g/MJ and M(3) = 12.4 g/MJ of metabolizable energy (ME)) were received by each animal for a period of 28 days. A metabolism trial was conducted for 7 days. Results indicate that with increasing levels of RDP, crude protein (CP) and RDP intake increased significantly (P < 0.01). The significant (P < 0.01) increase in digestibility values are obtained for DM, organic matter, CP and digestible organic matter in the rumen. The digestibility of neutral detergent fibre and acid detergent fibre was also increased significantly (P < 0.05). The total nitrogen (N), ammonia-N and total volatile fatty acids increase significantly (P < 0.01) while the rumen pH increased from M(0) to M(2) and decreased thereafter. The efficiency microbial N intake increased significantly (P < 0.01) but showed a curvilinear response with higher RDP level (12.40 g/RDP/MJ ME). This study concludes that supplementation of RDP from MOC enhances the intake, digestibility and microbial protein synthesis which ultimately increases utilization of low-quality feed resources that can be used for developing cost-effective feeding systems on a straw-based diet in tropical regions.
21915734	Insect-resistant genetically modified (IRGM) rice is on the verge of commercial release in China, however, its potential non-target effect on non-target insect natural enemies remains controversial. Tracking trophic interactions between predators and preys in IRGM rice ecosystem can provide new insights into better understanding of the ecological risks of IRGM rice. In the present study, a novel method based on ligase detection reaction (LDR), PCR-LDR was introduced to track 15 prey species in the gut of a predaceous spider Pirata subpiraticus, a dominant natural enemy in rice field. Our results indicated that PCR-LDR could provide high specificity and sensitivity in tracking prey-predator interactions in rice ecosystems. PCR-LDR could detect as little as 1,000 th of DNA mixture. Reliable detection of DNA samples of prey species using PCR-LDR could be significantly affected by digestion time and prey species. In the analysis of 200 field-collected P. subpiraticus and 105 field-collected Tetragnatha maxillosa individuals using PCR-LDR, prey remains were identified in 78.3 and 74.3% of the individuals, respectively, from which significant predation differences between the two spider species were observed. Predation behavior of the spider species was not significantly different between Bt and non-Bt control rice lines. These results indicated that PCR-LDR can be used as an important tool for ecological studies, especially on the interactions between predators and preys in IRGM rice or other similar ecosystems.
21915960	The gas-phase dissociation of phosphorylated peptides was modelled using a combination of quantum mechanics and the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. Potential energy surfaces and unimolecular reaction rates for several low-energy fragmentation and rearrangement pathways were estimated, and a general mechanism was proposed. The neutral loss of the phosphoric acid was mainly an outcome of the intramolecular nucleophilic substitution mechanism. The mechanism involves a nucleophilic attack of the phosphorylated amino acid N-terminal carbonyl oxygen on β-carbon, yielding a cyclic five-membered oxazoline product ion. Regardless of the proton mobility, the pathway was charge directed either by a mobile proton or by a positively charged side chain of some basic residue. Although the mechanistic aspects of the phosphate loss are not influenced by the proton mobility environment, it does affect ion abundances. Results suggest that under the mobile proton environment, the interplay between phosphoric acid neutral loss product ion and backbone cleavage fragments should occur. On the other hand, when proton mobility is limited, neutral loss product ion may predominate. The fragmentation dynamics of phosphoserine versus phosphothreonine containing peptides suggests that H(3)PO(4) neutral loss from phosphothreonine containing peptides is less abundant than that from their phosphoserine containing analogs. During the low-energy CID of phosphorylated peptides in the millisecond time range, typical for ion trap instruments, a phosphate group rearrangement may happen, resulting in an interchange between the phosphorylated and the hydroxylated residues. Unimolecular dissociation rate constants imply the low abundance of such scrambled product ions.
21916534	Three commonly consumed Indian rice varieties (Sona Masuri, Ponni and Surti Kolam) were tested for their glycaemic index (GI). Healthy volunteers were recruited and after an overnight fast were given a 50 g available carbohydrate portion of glucose (reference food) or different varieties of cooked rice (test foods) on separate occasions. The fasting as well as postprandial capillary blood glucose response was determined over 2 h, and the incremental area under the curve (IAUC) was calculated. The GI was calculated as the IAUC of the test food/IAUC of the reference food (glucose) × 100. The differences between the GI values for Sona Masuri (72.0 ± 4.5), Ponni (70.2 ± 3.6) and Surti Kolam (77.0 ± 4.0) rice varieties were non-significant (p = 0.606) and are all classified as high GI varieties of rice. There is an urgent need to study the GI of other commonly consumed rice varieties and to develop rice of a lower GI value.
21917639	Addition of hydrocolloids (H/C) in gluten-free (GF) bread formulation is necessary in order to act as polymeric substances that should mimic the viscoelastic properties of gluten and increase the dough's gas-retaining ability. The properties of H/C vary depending on their origin and chemical structure. Addition of H/C (hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC), xanthan, κ-carrageenan and guar gum) of different origins at 1%, 1.5% and 2% (w/w) in GF formulations based on corn starch and rice flour was carried out to investigate the effects on dough rheology and bread quality. The consistency, viscosity and thermal properties of doughs were evaluated. According to results, 1% and 1.5% addition of H/C (except from xanthan) contributed to bread with higher loaf volume and better color compared to control GF bread as well as to increased shelf life due to its moisture-absorption ability. Sensory evaluation by a trained panel revealed a preference for bread containing 1.5% HPMC because of its loaf volume, appearance and firmness characteristics. The micrographs of the dough showed a continuous matrix between starch and HPMC obtaining a more aerated structure.
21917724	Levels of nucleotide variability are frequently positively correlated with recombination rate and negatively associated with gene density due to the effects of selection on linked variation. These relationships are determined by properties that frequently differ among species, including the mating system, and aspects of genome organization such as how genes are distributed along chromosomes. In rice, genes are found at highest density in regions with frequent crossing-over. This association between gene density and recombination rate provides an opportunity to evaluate the effects of selection in a genomic context that differs from other model organisms. Using single-nucleotide polymorphism data from Asian domesticated rice Oryza sativa ssp. japonica and ssp. indica and their progenitor species O. rufipogon, we observe a significant negative association between levels of polymorphism and both gene and coding site density, but either no association, or a negative correlation, between nucleotide variability and recombination rate. We establish that these patterns are unlikely to be explained by neutral mutation rate biases and demonstrate that a model of background selection with variable rates of deleterious mutation is sufficient to account for the gene density effect in O. rufipogon. In O. sativa ssp. japonica, we report a strong negative correlation between polymorphism and recombination rate and greater losses of variation during domestication in the euchromatic chromosome arms than heterochromatin. This is consistent with Hill-Robertson interference in low-recombination regions, which may limit the efficacy of selection for domestication traits. Our results suggest that the physical distribution of selected mutations is a primary factor that determines the genomic pattern of polymorphism in wild and domesticated rice species.
21918684	Plant bioreactor offers an efficient and economical system for large-scale production of recombinant proteins. However, high cost and difficulty in scaling-up of downstream purification of the target protein, particularly the common involvement of affinity chromatography and protease in the purification process, has hampered its industrial scale application, therefore a cost-effective and easily scale-up purification method is highly desirable for further development of plant bioreactor. To tackle this problem, we investigated the ELP-intein coupling system for purification of recombinant proteins expressed in transgenic plants using a plant lectin (PAL) with anti-tumor bioactivity as example target protein and rice seeds as production platform. Results showed that ELP-intein-PAL (EiP) fusion protein formed novel irregular ER-derived protein bodies in endosperm cells by retention of endogenous prolamins. The fusion protein was partially self-cleaved in vivo, but only self-cleaved PAL protein was detected in total seed protein sample and deposited in protein storage vacuoles (PSV). The in vivo uncleaved EiP protein was accumulated up to 2-4.2% of the total seed protein. The target PAL protein could be purified by the ELP-intein system efficiently without using complicated instruments and expensive chemicals, and the yield of pure PAL protein by the current method was up to 1.1 mg/g total seed protein. This study successfully demonstrated the purification of an example recombinant protein from rice seeds by the ELP-intein system. The whole purification procedure can be easily scaled up for industrial production, providing the first evidence on applying the ELP-intein coupling system to achieve cost-effective purification of recombinant proteins expressed in plant bioreactors and its possible application in industry.
21918817	The strength of reproductive isolation often correlates positively with parental divergence in both animals and plants. Here, we assess the relationship between transmission ratio distortion (TRD) of marker loci and parental divergence in intraspecific rice (Oryza sativa L.) crosses. We produced 10 diverse F(2) populations by crossing a temperate japonica reference accession with each of 10 donor accessions belonging to subpopulations different from the reference accession, and then genotyped the F(2) populations using molecular markers distributed across the entire genome. Significant TRDs (α = 0.05) were detected in 9 of the 10 F(2) populations. TRD regions on chromosomes 3 and 6 were common to several populations; in contrast, other TRD regions were unique to a single population, indicating the diversification of genomic location of TRDs among the populations. The level of TRD (estimated from the overall number and magnitude of TRDs) was significantly correlated with the genetic distance between the donor accessions and the reference accession. Our results suggest that in intraspecific rice crosses, parental divergence may result in diversification of the TRD pattern, followed by an increase in the level of TRD.
21919515	In order to optimize the cellulase (from Aspergillus glaucus) hydrolysis of pretreated rice straw, the effects of varying enzyme concentration, temperature, and pH were studied. The best experimental conditions found to degrade the pretreated rice straws were 24 h of incubation at 55 °C and pH 5.0, with an enzyme concentration of 48 mg/L. Urea is one of the important nitrogen sources used in fungi culture, but it is also a denaturant. The model of denaturation of endoglucanase (EG) in urea solutions was established. The denaturation was a slow, reversible reaction. Determination of microscopic rate constants showed k(+0) > k'(+0), indicating that EG was protected by the substrate to a certain extent during denaturation. Comparison with the results from fluorescence emission spectroscopy revealed that the inactivation of EG occurred before the marked conformational changes could be detected.
21919612
21919985	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, is a serious pest threatening rice production across the world. To identify the main features of the gene expression and the key components of the midgut of N. lugens responsible for nutrition, xenobiotic metabolism and the immune response, we used pyrosequencing to sample the transcriptome. More than 190,000 clean sequences were generated, which led to about 30,000 unique sequences. Sequence analysis indicated that genes with abundant transcripts in the midgut of N. lugens were mainly sugar hydrolyases and transporters, proteases and detoxification-related proteins. Based on the sequence information, we cloned the candidate sucrase gene; this enzyme is likely to interact with the perimicrovillar membrane through its highly hydrophobic C-terminal region. Many proteases were identified, which supported the hypothesis that N. lugens uses the proteolysis system for digestion. Scores of detoxification genes were newly identified, including cytochrome P450s, glutathione S-transferases, caroxylesterases. A wealth of new transcripts possibly participating in the immune response were described as well. The gene encoding a peptidoglycan recognition protein was cloned. Unlike in Acyrthosiphon pisum, the immunodeficiency pathway may be present in N. lugens. This is the first global analysis of midgut transcriptome from N. lugens.
21920630	Rice is the staple food for more than fifty percent of the world's population, and is therefore an important crop. However, its production is hindered by several biotic and abiotic stresses. Although rice is the only crop that can germinate even in the complete absence of oxygen (i.e. anoxia), flooding (low oxygen) is one of the major causes of reduced rice production. Rice germination under anoxia is characterized by the elongation of the coleoptile, but leaf growth is hampered. In this work, a comparative proteomic approach was used to detect and identify differentially expressed proteins in the anoxic rice coleoptile compared to the aerobic coleoptile. Thirty-one spots were successfully identified by MALDI-TOF MS analysis. The majority of the identified proteins were related to stress responses and redox metabolism. The expression levels of twenty-three proteins and their respective mRNAs were analyzed in a time course experiment.
21920877	Isopentenyltransferase (IPT) is a critical enzyme in the cytokinin biosynthetic pathway. The expression of IPT under the control of a maturation- and stress-induced promoter was shown to delay stress-induced plant senescence that resulted in an enhanced drought tolerance in both monocot and dicot plants. This report extends the earlier findings in tobacco and rice to peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.), an important oil crop and protein source. Regulated expression of IPT in peanut significantly improved drought tolerance in both laboratory and field conditions. Transgenic peanut plants maintained higher photosynthetic rates, higher stomatal conductance and higher transpiration than wild-type control plants under reduced irrigation conditions. More importantly, transgenic peanut plants produced significantly higher yields than wild-type control plants in the field, indicating a great potential for the development of crops with improved performance and yield in water-limited areas of the world.
21921421	In the present study, we first examined the dietary zinc intake from food groups in 109 healthy Japanese (24-82 years old, 45 male and 64 female) by means of the 72-h recall method. We then used the ratio of apo/holo-activities of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE ratio) that is a more sensitive index of zinc nutrition than zinc concentration in the serum and examined the correlation between their zinc intake and ACE ratio. Dietary zinc intake in healthy Japanese was maximal from rice and rice products. There were significant inverse correlations between the ACE ratio and dietary zinc intake from rice and rice products and shellfish, and a significant positive correlation between ACE ratio and dietary zinc intake from other beans and bean processed foods. On the other hand, there were no significant correlations between serum zinc concentrations and dietary zinc intake from any food group except processed fish. These findings suggested that rice is a major source of dietary zinc intake in healthy Japanese. It is also suggested that shellfish also has a major impact on zinc nutrition, although dietary zinc intake from this source is minimal. Since beans contain phytic acid, which inhibits the absorption of dietary zinc, it is suggested that intake of beans causes impairment of zinc nutrition.
21921425	The aim of this study is to investigate the prebiotic effects of brown rice fermented by Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA) on the intestinal environment in vitro and in healthy adults. Fresh fecal slurries from six healthy adults were incubated with FBRA to confirm prebiotic potentials of FBRA. Another thirty-six healthy adults were randomly allocated to 2 groups for the clinical study. Subjects consumed 21.0 g/day of either FBRA or control food for 2 weeks, followed by a 12-week intermission and then 2-week ingestion vice versa. Main outcome measures were bifidobacterial numbers and organic acid concentration in feces. Sub outcome measures were fecal microbiota, fecal environments and bowel function. Incubation of fecal slurries with FBRA in vitro resulted in increased organic acids with individual-specific patterns. Bifidobacterial numbers were increased during incubation. In the clinical study, all participants safely completed this study. FBRA had little effect on fecal number of bifidobacteria, concentrations of organic acids or putrefactive metabolites, fecal pH, or fecal microbiota. FBRA has the potentials as a prebiotic, however, we could not detect its effects on the intestinal environment in vivo. The results in a clinical study indicated that FBRA could be safely used for healthy adults.
21921695	Anoxia can occur in crop fields when flooding forms a physical barrier that reduces oxygen availability. Rice, but not wheat, can germinate and elongate its coleoptile under anoxia, providing an excellent model for understanding mechanisms of anoxia tolerance. We have shown differential molecular responses of rice and wheat coleoptiles to anoxia and discovered novel metabolic adaptations in amino acid metabolism for tissue tolerance. In this addendum, we elaborate on our discussion to speculate on the functions of differentially regulated proteins and their possible roles in selective transcription and translation, alternative elongation strategies and preparedness for exposure to air. In addition, it is thought that rapid growth is a stress avoidance strategy; if adequate coleoptile growth occurs then plants can outgrow floodwaters to resume or begin aerobic respiration. An innate response mechanism to the arrival of air, and the oxidative stress inherent to this, would therefore be necessary in survival beyond the alleviation of anoxia. Thus, we emphasize the importance of recognizing anoxia as a multi-stage stress where responses otherwise considered counter-intuitive may have evolved as preparative defenses for when exposure to air occurs.
21921696	The uptake, translocation, and compartmentalization of Fe are essential for plant cell function and life cycle. Despite rapid progress in our understanding of Fe homeostasis in plants, Fe transport from the cytoplasm to mitochondria was, until recently, poorly understood. The screening of 3,993 mutant lines for symptoms of Fe deficiency resulted in the identification and characterization of a major mitochondrial Fe transporter (MIT) in rice. MIT was found to localize to mitochondria and to complement the growth of a yeast strain defective in mitochondrial Fe transport. The knock-out of MIT resulted in a lethal phenotype, and in knock-down plants, several agronomic characteristics were compromised, such as plant height, average number of tillers, days to flower, fertility, and yield. Changes in the expression of genes involved in Fe transport suggested a disturbance of cellular Fe transport. Furthermore, the mitochondrial Fe concentration and the activity of the mitochondrial Fe-S enzyme aconitase were significantly reduced compared with wild-type plants. The identification of MIT is a significant advance in the field of plant Fe nutrition and should facilitate the cloning of paralogs from other plant species.
21921697	Iron (Fe) is an essential micronutrient for plants whose deficiency presents a major worldwide agricultural problem. Moreover, Fe is not easily available in neutral to alkaline soils, rendering plants deficient in Fe despite its abundance. Plants secrete phenolics, such as protocatechuic acid (PCA) and caffeic acid (CA), to take up and utilize apoplasmic precipitated Fe, but despite the rapid progress in understanding cellular and subcellular Fe transport, the molecular mechanisms of phenolics synthesis and secretion are not clear. Recently, we isolated and characterized a phenolics efflux transporter in rice by characterizing a mutant in which the amount of PCA and CA in the xylem sap was dramatically reduced, which we hence named phenolics efflux zero 1 (pez1). PEZ1 is a plasma membrane protein that transports PCA when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, and characterization of PEZ1 knockdown and overexpressing plants revealed that it plays an essential role in solubilizing precipitated apoplasmic Fe. The identification of PEZ1 will increase our understanding of apoplasmic Fe solubilization as well as promote research on phenolics efflux mechanisms in different organisms.
21922752	Mucosal vaccination has several advantages compared with that of injection-type vaccination. Secretory IgA(SIgA) produced at mucosal surface plays a key role for inactivation of toxins and inhibition of pathogen invasion. Although oral or nasal vaccination with attenuated live microorganisms have been shown to be effective in the induction of protective immunity, these types of vaccine have the ability to infect transiently to the host. For the development of safe and effective mucosal vaccine, an obvious strategy is the preparation of inactivated subunit-type mucosal vaccine. Here we introduce our frontier technology for the development of rice-based oral vaccines, as a new generation of mucosal vaccine. Further, we also discuss recent progress in the development of other types of mucosal vaccine and adjuvant.
21922807	Two non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions (methane and nitrous oxide) and related environmental factors were measured within rice growing season under five treatments including non-fertilization (CK), balanced fertilization (BF), decreased nitrogen and phosphate 1 (DNP1), decreased nitrogen and phosphate 2 (DNP2) and increased nitrogen and phosphate 1 (INP) in double rice fields of red clay soil in 2009, using the method of static chamber-gas chromatograph techniques. The results showed that the average CH4 emission fluxes for treatments of BF, DNP1, DNP2 and INP were 4.57, 5.42, 4.70 and 4.65 mg x (m2 x h)(-1) during early rice growing period, which increased by 39%, 49%, 41% and 40% compared with non-fertilizer treatment, respectively. The average CH4 emission fluxes in late rice growing season was higher than preseason's. Compared to CK, CH4 emission increased by 11%, 1%, 26% and - 4% in treatments of BF, DNP1, DNP2 and INP within late rice growing season. Applying nitrogen and phosphate enhanced CH4 emission in turning green period for early and late rice. No significant difference was observed between the CH4 emissions of five treatments during early and late rice growing season (p > 0.05). N2O emission was very little during mid-seasonal drainage period. In contrast, N2O emission peaks were observed in period of alternation of wetting and drying after mid-seasonal drainage in this experiment. N2O emission was, on average, equivalent to 0.18% of the nitrogen applied in double rice growing season. Statistically, air temperature, soil Eh and soil moisture (water-filled pore space, WFPS) at 0-10cm depth significantly affected the fluctuations of the seasonal CH4 flux, but no significant correlationship has been found between N2O flux and related environmental factors. CH4 was the dominated greenhouse gas in double rice fields which contributed approximately 90% for the integrated global warming potential of CH4 and N2O released during the rice growing season. Therefore, the mitigation options should focus on how to reduce CH4 emission in local area. The result indicates that BF is a recommended fertilization method for early rice production, and a optimum fertilization for late season can increase rates of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers on the basis of BF treatment slightly by considering total global warming potential and grain yield. The rates of BF treatment were 150-90-90 kg x hm(-2) N-P2O5-K2O for early rice, and 180-90-135 kg x hm(-2) N-P2O5-K2O for late rice, respectively.
21922808	The nitrogen (N) fertilizers overused or misused are the main contributors for water eutrophication of the Nansi Lake in eastern China. A field experiment with different application levels of controlled-release N fertilizer (CRF) was carried out at a rice field in the Nansi lake basin to provide information on the nitrogen uptake rate and use efficiency by rice with CRF application at different growth stages of rice. The fertilization levels for the controlled fertilizer in this study were 0, 300, 337.5 and 375 kg/hm2, respectively, and 375 kg/hm2 for conventional urea (CU). We estimated the N uptake rate in different growing season and apparent recovery of fertilizer in root, stover and grain of rice. The result showed that grain yield increased by higher N rate. However, the N uptake rate did not increase linearly with the nitrogen application amount. The highest N uptake rate was 22.48 mg/(plant x d) under the fertilization amount of 337.5 kg/hm2 during the young panicle differentiation stage. Apparent N recovery efficiency for CU with traditional application amount of 375 kg/hm2 was 21.86%. Apparent N recovery efficiency for CRF with application amount of 337.5 kg/hm2 was highest with 37.17%. Based on the statistical data, with CU of traditional urea application amount of 375 kg/hm2, nitrogen loss and soil N residue at one growing season are 130.07 x 10(3) t for Jining city and 11.4 x 10(3) t for Yutai county of the Nansi Lake basin. If using CRF with the optimized application amount of 337.5 kg/hm2, nitrogen loss and soil residual at one growing season is 10.46 x 10(4) t for Jining city. It could reduce losses of 2.55 x 10(4) t N for Jining city and 2 235.26 t N for Yutai county per year. Because of releasing patterns more closely matched to crop N uptake patterns, controlled release N fertilizer could be a good way to prevent water eutrophication due to nitrogen fertilizer overused or misused in the Nansi Lake.
21922853	There have been very few studies on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in Sri Lanka. This study was undertaken to determine the clinical presentation and whether a western style diet or infection with geo-helminths were associated with the condition. Three questionnaires were given to the patients: one relating to diet, one relating to clinical presentation and one relating to quality of life. The disease was confirmed endoscopically and histologically. Faeces were examined for parasites. Forty four patients were enrolled (43-ulcerative colitis; 1-Crohn's Disease). All but one had ulcerative colitis. Most had no family history of disease. The peak age of onset was 21-40 y and 63% gave a history of more than 6 months symptoms prior to diagnosis. Clinical presentation was similar to cases in western countries although milder with less severe life-events. None of them had undergone surgery. All patients ate a rice-based diet and none ate bread made of refined flour. Only 2 patient was infected with a geo-helminth. Eating bread made of refined flour is not related to development of IBD in these patients. The prevalence of geo-helminths in the study population corresponded to the general population average. Delay in diagnosis occurs because of an initial assumption that the cause of symptoms is infective. A National Register of non-infectious gastrointestinal disease would aid the epidemiology and allocation of funding to this inflammatory condition.
21923182	The secretome of an organism is defined as a set of secreted proteins that encompasses all proteins exported to the extracellular space. To better understand the chickpea secretome, we used callus culture to isolate and identify secreted proteins as a step toward determining their functions. Proteins in the extracellular media of the suspension culture were examined using SDS-PAGE and mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Proteomic analysis led to the identification of 773 proteins, presumably involved in a variety of functions including metabolism, signal transduction, transport, and cell defense, in addition to maintaining redox status of extracellular space. Bioinformatic analysis confirmed 724 proteins, accounting for 94% of the identified proteins, as constituents of the secretome. Analysis of the secretome revealed the presence of several proteins of unknown function and a large number of classical and nonclassical secreted proteins. This represents the first comprehensive secretome of a legume genome, which is yet to be sequenced. Comparative analysis of the chickpea secretome with those of Medicago, Arabidopsis, and rice revealed that the majority of identified proteins are seemingly species-specific. This study demonstrates that characterization of the chickpea secretome in vitro can be used to identify secreted proteins, which has implications for systems biology research.
21924254	Grasses have highly specialized flowers and their outer floral organ identity remains unclear. In this study, we identified and characterized rice mutants that specifically disrupted the development of palea, one of the outer whorl floral organs. The depressed palea1 (dp1) mutants show a primary defect in the main structure of palea, implying that palea is a fusion between the main structure and marginal tissues on both sides. The sterile lemma at the palea side is occasionally elongated in dp1 mutants. In addition, we found a floral organ number increase in dp1 mutants at low penetration. Both the sterile lemma elongation and the floral organ number increase phenotype are enhanced by the mutation of an independent gene SMALL DEGENERATIVE PALEA1 (SDP1), whose single mutation causes reduced palea size. E function and presumable A function floral homeotic genes were found suppressed in the dp1-2 mutant. We identified the DP1 gene by map-based cloning and found it encodes a nuclear-localized AT-hook DNA binding protein, suggesting a grass-specific role of chromatin architecture modification in flower development. The DP1 enhancer SDP1 was also positional cloned, and was found identical to the recently reported RETARDED PALEA1 (REP1) gene encoding a TCP family transcription factor. We further found that SDP1/REP1 is downstreamly regulated by DP1.
21924897	The adsorption of methyl violet by the biochars from crop residues was investigated with batch and leaching experiments--adsorption capacity varied with their feedstock in the following order: canola straw char>peanut straw char>soybean straw char>rice hull char. This order was generally consistent with the amount of negative charge of the biochars. Zeta potentials and Fourier transform infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy, combined with adsorption isotherms and effect of ionic strength, indicated that adsorption of methyl violet on biochars involved electrostatic attraction, specific interaction between the dye and carboxylate and phenolic hydroxyl groups on the biochars, and surface precipitation. Leaching experiments showed that 156 g of rice hull char almost completely removed methyl violet from 18.2 L of water containing 1.0 mmol/L of methyl violet. The biochars had high removal efficiency for methyl violet and could be effective adsorbents for removal of methyl violet from wastewater.
21925977	The new pre-concentration technique, hollow fiber-solid phase microextraction based on carbon nanotube reinforced sol-gel and liquid chromatography-photodiode array detection was applied to determination of aflatoxins B(1), B(2) (AFB(1), AFB(2)) in rice, peanut and wheat samples. This research provides an overview of trends related to synthesis of solid phase microextraction (SPME) sorbnents that improves the assay of aflatoxins as the semi-polar compounds in several real samples. It mainly includes summary and a list of the results for a simple carbon nanotube reinforced sol-gel in-fiber device. This device was used for extraction, pre-concentration and determination of aflatoxins B1, B2 in real samples. In this technique carbon nanotube reinforced sol was prepared by the sol-gel method via the reaction of phenyl trimethoxysilane (PTMS) with a basic catalyst (tris hydroxymethyl aminomethan). The influences of microextraction parameters such as pH, ageing time, carbon nanotube contents, desorption conditions, desorption solvent and agitation speed were investigated. Optimal HPLC conditions were: C(18) reversed phase column for separation, water-acetonitril-methanol (35:10:55) as the mobile phase and maximum wavelength for detection was 370 nm. The method was evaluated statistically and under optimized conditions, the detection limits for the analytes were 0.074 and 0.061 ng/mL for B1 and B2 respectively. Limit of quantification for B1 and B2 was 0.1 ng/mL too (n=7). The precisions were in the range of 2.829-2.976% (n=3), and linear ranges were within 0.1 and 400 ng/mL. The method was successfully applied to the analysis of cereals (peanut, wheat, rice) with the relative recoveries from 47.43% to 106.83%.
21926092	About one-third of the world's rice area is in rain-fed lowlands and most are prone to water shortage. The identification of genes imparting tolerance to drought in the model cereal plant, rice, is an attractive strategy to engineer improved drought tolerance not only rice but other cereals as well. It is demonstrated that RNAi-mediated disruption of a rice farnesyltransferase/squalene synthase (SQS) by maize squalene synthase improves drought tolerance at both the vegetative and reproductive stages. Twenty-day-old seedlings of wild type (Nipponbare) and seven independent events of transgenic RNAi lines showed no difference in morphology. When subjected to water stress for a period of 32 d under growth chamber conditions, transgenic positives showed delayed wilting, conserved more soil water, and improved recovery. When five independent events along with wild-type plants were subjected to drought at the reproductive stage under greenhouse conditions, the transgenic plants lost water more slowly compared with the wild type, through reduced stomatal conductance and the retention of high leaf relative water content (RWC). After 28 d of slow progressive soil drying, transgenic plants recovered better and flowered earlier than wild-type plants. The yield of water-stressed transgenic positive plants ranged from 14-39% higher than wild-type plants. When grown in plates with Yoshida's nutrient solution with 1.2% agar, transgenic positives from three independent events showed increased root length and an enhanced number of lateral roots. The RNAi-mediated inactivation produced reduced stomatal conductance and subsequent drought tolerance.
21926094	This study tested the hypothesis that a post-anthesis moderate soil drying can improve grain filling through regulating the key enzymes in the sucrose-to-starch pathway in the grains of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Two rice cultivars were field grown and two irrigation regimes, alternate wetting and moderate soil drying (WMD) and conventional irrigation (CI, continuously flooded), were imposed during the grain-filling period. The grain-filling rate and activities of four key enzymes in sucrose-to-starch conversion, sucrose synthase (SuSase), adenosine diphosphate-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), starch synthase (StSase), and starch branching enzyme (SBE), showed no significant difference between WMD and CI regimes for the earlier flowering superior spikelets. However, they were significantly enhanced by the WMD for the later flowering inferior spikelets. The activities of both soluble and insoluble acid invertase in the grains were little affected by the WMD. The two cultivars showed the same tendencies. The activities of SuSase, AGPase, StSase, and SBE in grains were very significantly correlated with the grain-filling rate. The abscisic acid (ABA) concentration in inferior spikelets was remarkably increased in the WMD and very significantly correlated with activities of SuSase, AGPase, StSase, and SBE. Application of ABA on plants under CI produced similar results to those seen in plants receiving WMD. Applying fluridone, an indirect inhibitor of ABA synthesis, produced the opposite effect. The results suggest that post-anthesis WMD could enhance sink strength by regulating the key enzymes involved, and consequently, increase the grain-filling rate and grain weight of inferior spikelets. ABA plays an important role in this process.
21927247	AGNIHOTRA is a simple vedic ritual of lightening a pyramid of fire in a small copper pot and giving offering of Ghee & Rice on this fire at the time of sunset and sunrise with enchanting of two mantras. It is reported to enhance the state of tranquility of mind and is reported to be of benefit to those addicted to various types of intoxicants. We used Agnihotra in a young smack addict who was poorly motivated and resisted all efforts to help him even when he got over the physical withdrawal features. The results were encouraging. Over a period of 4 weeks, we found him to be a totally changed man who could go back to his work without any drugs. Follow up for more than a year, revealed no recurrence and positive achievements in his work performance. The paper presents practice of Agnihotra, also known as homa therapy, and discusses its role in drug addiction.
21927949	In eukaryotes, the cell cycle consists of four distinct phases: G1, S, G2 and M. In certain condition, the cells skip M-phase and undergo endoreduplication. Endoreduplication, occurring during a modified cell cycle, duplicates the entire genome without being followed by M-phase. A cycle of endoreduplication is common in most of the differentiated cells of plant vegetative tissues and it occurs extensively in cereal endosperm cells. Endoreduplication occurs when CDK/Cyclin complex low or inactive caused by ubiquitin-mediated degradation by APC and their activators. In this study, rice cell cycle switch 52 A (OsCCS52A), an APC activator, is functionally characterized using the reverse genetic approach. In rice, OsCCS52A is highly expressed in seedlings, flowers, immature panicles and 15 DAP kernels. Localization studies revealed that OsCCS52A is a nuclear protein. OsCCS52A interacts with OsCdc16 in yeast. In addition, overexpression of OsCCS52A inhibits mitotic cell division and induces endoreduplication and cell elongation in fission yeast. The homozygous mutant exhibits dwarfism and smaller seeds. Further analysis demonstrated that endoreduplication cycles in the endosperm of mutant seeds were disturbed, evidenced by reduced nuclear and cell sizes. Taken together, these results suggest that OsCCS52A is involved in maintaining normal seed size formation by mediating the exit from mitotic cell division to enter the endoreduplication cycles in rice endosperm.
21928114	In rice, the elongated internodes are derived from the vegetative shoot apical meristem (SAM), and the transition of the SAM from the vegetative to the reproductive stage induces internode elongation. In this study, we characterize two shortened uppermost internode mutants (sui1-1 and sui1-2). During the seedling and tillering stages, sui1 plants are morphologically similar to wild-type plants. However, at the heading stage, the sui1-1 mutant exhibits a shortened uppermost internode and a partly sheathed panicle, and the sui1-2 mutant shows an extremely shortened uppermost internode and a fully sheathed panicle. Gibberellin treatment results in elongation of every internode, but the shortened uppermost internode phenotype remains unaltered. Microscopic analysis indicates that cell length of sui1-1 uppermost internode exhibits decreased. Map-based cloning revealed that SUI1 is located on Chromosome 1, and encodes a putative phosphatidyl serine synthase (PSS) family protein. Searches for matches in protein databases showed that OsSUI1 contains the InterPro domain IPR004277, which is conserved in both animal and plant kingdoms. Introduction of a wild-type SUI1 gene fully rescued the mutant phenotype of sui1-1 and sui1-2, confirming the identity of the cloned gene. Consistent with these results, the SUI1-RNAi transgenic plants displayed decreased elongation of the uppermost internode. Our results suggest that SUI1 plays an important role in regulating uppermost internode length by decreasing longitudinal cell length in rice.
21929565	Multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) and type III effector (T3E) repertoire mining were performed to gain new insights into the genetic relatedness of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc), two major bacterial pathogens of rice. Based on a collection of 45 African and Asian strains, we first sequenced and analysed three housekeeping genes by MLSA, Bayesian clustering and a median-joining network approach. Second, we investigated the distribution of 32 T3E genes, which are known to be major virulence factors of plant pathogenic bacteria, in all selected strains, by polymerase chain reaction and dot-blot hybridization methods. The diversity observed within housekeeping genes, as well as within T3E repertoires, clearly showed that both pathogens belong to closely related, but distinct, phylogenetic groups. Interestingly, these evolutionary groups are differentiated according to the geographical origin of the strains, suggesting that populations of Xoo and Xoc might be endemic in Africa and Asia, and thus have evolved separately. We further revealed that T3E gene repertoires of both pathogens comprise core and variable gene suites that probably have distinct roles in pathogenicity and different evolutionary histories. In this study, we carried out a functional analysis of xopO, a differential T3E gene between Xoo and Xoc, to determine the involvement of this gene in tissue specificity. Altogether, our data contribute to a better understanding of the evolutionary history of Xoo and Xoc in Africa and Asia, and provide clues for functional studies aiming to understand the virulence, host and tissue specificity of both rice pathogens.
21929695	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, is an economically significant pest of rice throughout Asia and has evolved resistance to many insecticides including the neonicotinoid imidacloprid. The resistance of field populations of N. lugens to imidacloprid has been attributed to enhanced detoxification by cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s), although, to date, the causative P450(s) has (have) not been identified. In the present study, biochemical assays using the model substrate 7-ethoxycoumarin showed enhanced P450 activity in several resistant N. lugens field strains when compared with a susceptible reference strain. Thirty three cDNA sequences encoding tentative unique P450s were identified from two recent sequencing projects and by degenerate PCR. The mRNA expression level of 32 of these was examined in susceptible, moderately resistant and highly resistant N. lugens strains using quantitative real-time PCR. A single P450 gene (CYP6ER1) was highly overexpressed in all resistant strains (up to 40-fold) and the level of expression observed in the different N. lugens strains was significantly correlated with the resistance phenotype. These results provide strong evidence for a role of CYP6ER1 in the resistance of N. lugens to imidacloprid.
21929790	Both male and female pigeons have the ability to produce a nutrient solution in their crop for the nourishment of their young. The production of the nutrient solution has been likened to lactation in mammals, and hence the product has been called pigeon 'milk'. It has been shown that pigeon 'milk' is essential for growth and development of the pigeon squab, and without it they fail to thrive. Studies have investigated the nutritional value of pigeon 'milk' but very little else is known about what it is or how it is produced. This study aimed to gain insight into the process by studying gene expression in the 'lactating' crop. Macroscopic comparison of 'lactating' and non-'lactating' crop reveals that the 'lactating' crop is enlarged and thickened with two very obvious lateral lobes that contain discrete rice-shaped pellets of pigeon 'milk'. This was characterised histologically by an increase in the number and depth of rete pegs extending from the basal layer of the epithelium to the lamina propria, and extensive proliferation and folding of the germinal layer into the superficial epithelium. A global gene expression profile comparison between 'lactating' crop and non-'lactating' crop showed that 542 genes are up-regulated in the 'lactating' crop, and 639 genes are down-regulated. Pathway analysis revealed that genes up-regulated in 'lactating' crop were involved in the proliferation of melanocytes, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, the adherens junction and the wingless (wnt) signalling pathway. Gene ontology analysis showed that antioxidant response and microtubule transport were enriched in 'lactating' crop. There is a hyperplastic response in the pigeon crop epithelium during 'lactation' that leads to localised cellular stress and expression of antioxidant protein-encoding genes. The differentiated, cornified cells that form the pigeon 'milk' are of keratinocyte lineage and contain triglycerides that are likely endocytosed as very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and repackaged as triglyceride in vesicles that are transported intracellularly by microtubules. This mechanism is an interesting example of the evolution of a system with analogies to mammalian lactation, as pigeon 'milk' fulfils a similar function to mammalian milk, but is produced by a different mechanism.
21929833	Maternal nutritional status during pregnancy is an important determinant of fetal growth. Although the effects of several nutrients and foods have been well examined, little is known about the relationship of overall maternal diet in pregnancy to fetal growth, particularly in non-Western populations. We prospectively examined the relationship of maternal dietary patterns in pregnancy to neonatal anthropometric measurements at birth and risk of small-for-gestational-age (SGA) birth among 803 Japanese women with live-born, singleton, term deliveries. Maternal diet in pregnancy was assessed using a validated, self-administered diet history questionnaire. Dietary patterns from thirty-three predefined food groups (g/4184 kJ) were extracted by cluster analysis. The following three dietary patterns were identified: the 'meat and eggs' (n 326), 'wheat products', with a relatively high intake of bread, confectioneries and soft drinks (n 303), and 'rice, fish and vegetables' (n 174) patterns. After adjustment for potential confounders, women in the 'wheat products' pattern had infants with the significantly lowest birth weight (P = 0·045) and head circumference (P = 0·036) among those in the three dietary patterns. Compared with women in the 'rice, fish and vegetables' pattern, women in the 'wheat products' pattern had higher odds of having a SGA infant for weight (multivariate OR 5·2, 95 % CI 1·1, 24·4), but this was not the case for birth length or head circumference. These results suggest that a diet high in bread, confectioneries, and soft drinks and low in fish and vegetables during pregnancy might be associated with a small birth weight and an increased risk of having a SGA infant.
21930097	Microsporogenesis and male gametogenesis are essential for the alternating life cycle of flowering plants between diploid sporophyte and haploid gametophyte generations. Rice (Oryza sativa) is the world's major staple food, and manipulation of pollen fertility is particularly important for the demands to increase rice grain yield. Towards a better understanding of the mechanisms controlling rice male reproductive development, we describe here the cytological changes of anther development through 14 stages, including cell division, differentiation and degeneration of somatic tissues consisting of four concentric cell layers surrounding and supporting reproductive cells as they form mature pollen grains through meiosis and mitosis. Furthermore, we compare the morphological difference of anthers and pollen grains in both monocot rice and eudicot Arabidopsis thaliana. Additionally, we describe the key genes identified to date critical for rice anther development and pollen formation.
21930100	Tiller number and culm length are important components of plant architecture and determinate grain production in rice. A line SIL046, derived from an introgression lines population developed by an accession of common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) and a high-yielding indica cultivar Guichao 2 (Oryza sativa L.), exhibits a higher tiller number and shorter culm length phenotype than the recipient parent Guichao 2 (GC2). Genetic analysis showed that the high-tillering dwarf phenotype was controlled by a novel single recessive gene, referred to as the high-tillering dwarf 3 (htd3), which located within the genetic distance of 13.4 cM between SSR makers RM7003 and RM277 on chromosome 12. By means of fine-mapping strategy, we mapped HTD3 gene within the genetic distance of 2.5 cM and the physical distance of 3100 kb in the centromere of chromosome 12. Further identification of HTD3 gene would provide a new opportunity to uncover the molecular mechanism of the development of culm and tiller, two important components of yields in rice.
21930101	DNA methylation, one of the most important epigenetic phenomena, plays a vital role in tuning gene expression during plant development as well as in response to environmental stimuli. In the present study, a methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP) analysis was performed to profile DNA methylation changes in two contrasting rice genotypes under salt stress. Consistent with visibly different phenotypes in response to salt stress, epigenetic markers classified as stable inter-cultivar DNA methylation differences were determined between salt-tolerant FL478 and salt-sensitive IR29. In addition, most tissue-specific DNA methylation loci were conserved, while many of the growth stage-dependent DNA methylation loci were dynamic between the two genotypes. Strikingly, salt stress induced a decrease in DNA methylation specifically in roots at the seedling stage that was more profound in IR29 than in the FL478. This result may indicate that demethylation of genes is an active epigenetic response to salt stress in roots at the seedling stage, and helps to further elucidate the implications of DNA methylation in crop growth and development.
21930672	Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy has been used to study mixtures of metabolites in biological samples. This technology produces a spectrum for each sample depicting the chemical shifts at which an unknown number of latent metabolites resonate. The interpretation of this data with common multivariate exploratory methods such as principal components analysis (PCA) is limited due to high-dimensionality, non-negativity of the underlying spectra and dependencies at adjacent chemical shifts. We develop a novel modification of PCA that is appropriate for analysis of NMR data, entitled Sparse Non-Negative Generalized PCA. This method yields interpretable principal components and loading vectors that select important features and directly account for both the non-negativity of the underlying spectra and dependencies at adjacent chemical shifts. Through the reanalysis of experimental NMR data on five purified neural cell types, we demonstrate the utility of our methods for dimension reduction, pattern recognition, sample exploration and feature selection. Our methods lead to the identification of novel metabolites that reflect the differences between these cell types. www.stat.rice.edu/~gallen/software.html. gallen@rice.edu. Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
21931358	Our previous studies have demonstrated that stable microRNAs (miRNAs) in mammalian serum and plasma are actively secreted from tissues and cells and can serve as a novel class of biomarkers for diseases, and act as signaling molecules in intercellular communication. Here, we report the surprising finding that exogenous plant miRNAs are present in the sera and tissues of various animals and that these exogenous plant miRNAs are primarily acquired orally, through food intake. MIR168a is abundant in rice and is one of the most highly enriched exogenous plant miRNAs in the sera of Chinese subjects. Functional studies in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that MIR168a could bind to the human/mouse low-density lipoprotein receptor adapter protein 1 (LDLRAP1) mRNA, inhibit LDLRAP1 expression in liver, and consequently decrease LDL removal from mouse plasma. These findings demonstrate that exogenous plant miRNAs in food can regulate the expression of target genes in mammals.
21931853	Rice husk, an agricultural bioresource, is utilized as a non-metallic bio-precursor to synthesize biogenic hierarchical TiO₂/SiO₂ (BH-TiO₂/SiO₂) and the products are applied to dye degradation. The as-prepared BH-TiO₂/SiO₂ samples are characterized by X-ray diffraction(XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy(XPS), nitrogen-adsorption measurement, UV-vis spectroscopy and electronic paramagnetic resonance (EPR). The results show that BH-TiO₂/SiO₂ possesses both anatase and rutile phases with amorphous SiO₂ as background, which contains mesopore structure, and nitrogen derived from original rice husk is self-doped into the lattice. Besides, the light-harvesting within the visible-light range of BH-TiO₂/SiO₂ has been enhanced. Moreover, the catalytic activity of BH-TiO₂/SiO₂ has been proven by EPR, and both the photocatalytic activity and stability of BH-TiO₂/SiO₂ are improved as well, which has been illustrated by cycled degradation of methylene blue dye under irradiation. This work provides a good way to combine natural hierarchical porous structure with synthetic material chemistry based on available biomass in the vast natural environment for the sustainable development of human society, and extends potentials of biomass in applications such as photocatalysts, sunlight splitting water and so forth.
21933130	Like those in mammals, heterotrimeric G protein complexes have been implicated in signal transduction pathways in plants; however, the subunits themselves have not been isolated. In this study, the rice heterotrimeric G protein subunits α (Gα) and β (Gβ) were purified by affinity chromatography using anti-Gα and -Gβ antibodies and SDS-PAGE. Six and seven peptides, respectively, were identified by mass spectrometry and identified as the translation products of the Gα gene RGA1 and Gβ gene RGB1. During purification, the subunits dissociated easily from the G protein complex.
21933963
21934119	The proteins of the MYB superfamily play central roles in developmental processes and defence responses in plants. Sixty unique wheat MYB genes that contain full-length cDNA sequences were isolated. These 60 genes were grouped into three categories, namely one R1R2R3-MYB, 22 R2R3-MYBs, and 37 MYB-related members. The sequence composition of the R2 and R3 repeats was conserved among the 22 wheat R2R3-MYB proteins. Phylogenetic comparison of the members of this superfamily among wheat, rice, and Arabidopsis revealed that the putative functions of some wheat MYB proteins were clustered into the Arabidopsis functional clades. Tissue-specific expression profiles showed that most of the wheat MYB genes were expressed in all of the tissues examined, suggesting that wheat MYB genes take part in multiple cellular processes. The expression analysis during abiotic stress identified a group of MYB genes that respond to one or more stress treatments. The overexpression of a salt-inducible gene, TaMYB32, enhanced the tolerance to salt stress in transgenic Arabidopsis. This study is the first comprehensive study of the MYB gene family in Triticeae.
21934664	Rice and its relatives are a focal point in agricultural and evolutionary science, but a paucity of fossils has obscured their deep-time history. Previously described cuticles with silica bodies (phytoliths) from the Late Cretaceous period (67-65 Ma) of India indicate that, by the latest Cretaceous, the grass family (Poaceae) consisted of members of the modern subclades PACMAD (Panicoideae-Aristidoideae-Chloridoideae-Micrairoideae-Arundinoideae-Danthonioideae) and BEP (Bambusoideae-Ehrhartoideae-Pooideae), including a taxon with proposed affinities to Ehrhartoideae. Here we describe additional fossils and show that, based on phylogenetic analyses that combine molecular genetic data and epidermal and phytolith features across Poaceae, these can be assigned to the rice tribe, Oryzeae, of grass subfamily Ehrhartoideae. The new Oryzeae fossils suggest substantial diversification within Ehrhartoideae by the Late Cretaceous, pushing back the time of origin of Poaceae as a whole. These results, therefore, necessitate a re-evaluation of current models for grass evolution and palaeobiogeography.
21935277	We aimed to explore the associations of dietary patterns with blood lipid profiles and obesity in adults with type 2 diabetes. The data were obtained from the Forth Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 2007-2008. Adults 30 yr or older, from which had both biochemical and dietary data were obtained. Among them, 680 subjects were defined as having diabetes based on criteria of fasting glucose ≥ 126 mg/dL, anti-diabetic treatment, or previously diagnosed diabetes. Dietary data from a 24-hr recall were used to derive dietary patterns by factor analysis. Four dietary patterns by factor analysis were identified: 'Bread & Meat & Alcohol', 'Noodles & Seafood', 'Rice & Vegetables', and 'Korean Healthy' patterns. Serum cholesterol levels in the highest quartile of the 'Bread & Meat & Alcohol' pattern were significantly higher compared with those in the lowest quartile. In addition, total cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the highest quartile of the 'Korean Healthy' pattern were significantly lower after adjusting for potential confounders. Dietary patterns of adults with diabetes were found to be associated with blood lipid profiles. 'Korean Healthy' pattern including whole grains, legumes, vegetables, and fruits could thus improve lipid profiles among those with type 2 diabetes.
21935421	Alternative splicing (AS) of pre-mRNA is a fundamental molecular process that generates diversity in the transcriptome and proteome of eukaryotic organisms. SR proteins, a family of splicing regulators with one or two RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) at the N-terminus and an arg/ser-rich domain at the C-terminus, function in both constitutive and alternative splicing. We identified SR proteins in 27 eukaryotic species, which include plants, animals, fungi and "basal" eukaryotes that lie outside of these lineages. Using RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) as a phylogenetic marker, we classified 272 SR genes into robust sub-families. The SR gene family can be split into five major groupings, which can be further separated into 11 distinct sub-families. Most flowering plants have double or nearly double the number of SR genes found in vertebrates. The majority of plant SR genes are under purifying selection. Moreover, in all paralogous SR genes in Arabidopsis, rice, soybean and maize, one of the two paralogs is preferentially expressed throughout plant development. We also assessed the extent of AS in SR genes based on a splice graph approach (http://combi.cs.colostate.edu/as/gmap_SRgenes). AS of SR genes is a widespread phenomenon throughout multiple lineages, with alternative 3' or 5' splicing events being the most prominent type of event. However, plant-enriched sub-families have 57%-88% of their SR genes experiencing some type of AS compared to the 40%-54% seen in other sub-families. The SR gene family is pervasive throughout multiple eukaryotic lineages, conserved in sequence and domain organization, but differs in gene number across lineages with an abundance of SR genes in flowering plants. The higher number of alternatively spliced SR genes in plants emphasizes the importance of AS in generating splice variants in these organisms.
21936252	Present study attempts to identify the taxocoenosis and distribution of nektonic fauna harbouring the rice field ecosystems of Kashmir. The main objective of the study was to provide an overview of the nektonic community composition and physicochemical characteristics of flood waters. 6 sites were selected in Kupwara, Bandipora, Budgam, Srinagar, Pulwama and Anantnag districts of valley Kashmir. A total of 26 taxa belonging to 13 different orders were reported during the study which commenced through 2 consecutive crop cycles. The taxocoenosis was dominated by Coleoptera (10 taxa) followed by Hemiptera (3 taxa), Diptera (2 taxa), Diplostraca (2 taxa), Acarina, Anostraca, Anura, Amphipoda, Basommatophora, Cypriniformes, Cyprinodontiformes, Odonata and Pulmonata (1 taxa each). Diversity was calculated using Simpsons Index (D), Simpsons Index of Diversity (1-D), Simpsons Reciprocal Index (1/D), Shannon-Weiner Index (H'), Margalef Richness Index (d) and Evenness Index (e). Kupwara (34 degrees 02'N; 74 degrees 16'E) formed the most diverse site registering a total of 2384 individuals belonging to 24 taxa. A perusal of the primary data related to the physicochemical attributes of flood waters exhibited that average water temperature varied between 19-30 degrees C, average air temperature varied between 21 and 33 degrees C. pH depicted a variation between 6.0 and 9.0, Dissolved Oxygen varied between a minimum of 1.0 mg L(-1) and a maximum of 10 mg L(-1). Free CO2 ranged between 0 mg L(-1) and 6.1 mg(-1). The results pressed the need for recognizing and preserving rice fields as potential habitats for organisms that have successfully adapted to the highly manipulated and eutrophic conditions of rice paddies.
21937483	Rice (Oryza sativa) plants lose significant amounts of volatile NH(3) from their leaves, but it has not been shown that this is a consequence of photorespiration. Involvement of photorespiration in NH(3) emission and the role of glutamine synthetase (GS) on NH(3) recycling were investigated using two rice cultivars with different GS activities. NH(3) emission (AER), and gross photosynthesis (P(G)), transpiration (Tr) and stomatal conductance (g(S)) were measured on leaves of 'Akenohoshi', a cultivar with high GS activity, and 'Kasalath', a cultivar with low GS activity, under different light intensities (200, 500 and 1000 µmol m(-2) s(-1)), leaf temperatures (27·5, 32·5 and 37·5 °C) and atmospheric O(2) concentrations ([O(2)]: 2, 21 and 40 %, corresponding to 20, 210 and 400 mmol mol(-1)). An increase in [O(2)] increased AER in the two cultivars, accompanied by a decrease in P(G) due to enhanced photorespiration, but did not greatly influence Tr and g(S). There were significant positive correlations between AER and photorespiration in both cultivars. Increasing light intensity increased AER, P(G), Tr and g(S) in both cultivars, whereas increasing leaf temperature increased AER and Tr but slightly decreased P(G) and g(S). 'Kasalath' (low GS activity) showed higher AER than 'Akenohoshi' (high GS activity) at high light intensity, leaf temperature and [O(2)]. Our results demonstrate that photorespiration is strongly involved in NH(3) emission by rice leaves and suggest that differences in AER between cultivars result from their different GS activities, which would result in different capacities for reassimilation of photorespiratory NH(3). The results also suggest that NH(3) emission in rice leaves is not directly controlled by transpiration and stomatal conductance.
21938473	A large-effect QTL associated with grain yield in aerobic environments was identified in three genetic backgrounds, Apo/(2)*Swarna, Apo/(2)*IR72, and Vandana/(2)*IR72, using bulk-segregant analysis (BSA). Apo and Vandana are drought-tolerant aerobic-adapted varieties, while Swarna and IR72 are important lowland rice varieties grown on millions of hectares in Asia but perform poorly in aerobic conditions. Two closely linked rice microsatellite (RM) markers, RM510 and RM19367, located on chromosome 6, were found to be associated with yield under aerobic soil conditions in all three backgrounds. The QTL linked to this marker, qDTY6.1 (DTY, grain yield under drought), was mapped to a 2.2 cM region between RM19367 and RM3805 at a peak LOD score of 32 in the Apo/(2)*Swarna population. The effect of qDTY6.1 was tested in a total of 20 hydrological environments over a period of five seasons and in five populations in the three genetic backgrounds. In the Apo/(2)*Swarna population, qDTY6.1 had a large effect on grain yield under favorable aerobic (R (2) ≤ 66%) and irrigated lowland (R (2) < 39%) conditions but not under drought stress; Apo contributed the favorable allele in all the conditions where an effect was observed. In the Apo/IR72 cross, Apo contributed the favorable allele in almost all the aerobic environments in RIL and BC(1)-derived populations. In the Vandana/IR72 RIL and BC(1)-derived populations, qDTY6.1 had a strong effect on yield in aerobic drought stress, aerobic non-stress, and irrigated lowland conditions; the Vandana allele was favorable in aerobic environments and the IR72 allele was favorable in irrigated lowland environments. We conclude that qDTY6.1 is a large-effect QTL for rice grain yield under aerobic environments and could potentially be used in molecular breeding of rice for aerobic environments.
21938475	Nodal root angle in sorghum influences vertical and horizontal root distribution in the soil profile and is thus relevant to drought adaptation. In this study, we report for the first time on the mapping of four QTL for nodal root angle (qRA) in sorghum, in addition to three QTL for root dry weight, two for shoot dry weight, and three for plant leaf area. Phenotyping was done at the six leaf stage for a mapping population (n = 141) developed by crossing two inbred sorghum lines with contrasting root angle. Nodal root angle QTL explained 58.2% of the phenotypic variance and were validated across a range of diverse inbred lines. Three of the four nodal root angle QTL showed homology to previously identified root angle QTL in rice and maize, whereas all four QTL co-located with previously identified QTL for stay-green in sorghum. A putative association between nodal root angle QTL and grain yield was identified through single marker analysis on field testing data from a subset of the mapping population grown in hybrid combination with three different tester lines. Furthermore, a putative association between nodal root angle QTL and stay-green was identified using data sets from selected sorghum nested association mapping populations segregating for root angle. The identification of nodal root angle QTL presents new opportunities for improving drought adaptation mechanisms via molecular breeding to manipulate a trait for which selection has previously been very difficult.
21938620	Protein-binding DNA microarray (PBM) is one of the high-throughput methods to define DNA sequences which potentially bind to a given DNA-binding protein. Quadruple 9-mer-based protein-binding DNA microarray, named Q9-PBM, is designed in such a way that target probes are synthesized as quadruples of all possible 9-mer combinations. Also, recombinant proteins fused with DsRed-monomer fluorescent protein are conveniently constructed. Q9-PBM confirms the well-known DNA-binding sequences of Cbf1 and CBF1/DREB1B transcription factors, and also identifies the adjacent sequences. Moreover, Q9-PBM is applied to elucidate the unidentified cis-acting element of the OsNAC6 rice transcription factor. This technology will facilitate greater understanding of genome-wide interactions between proteins and DNA.
21940595	Micronized ferric pyrophosphate (MFPP) in extruded rice kernels mixed in a rice-based meal could be an effective strategy for improving iron status of children in India. The objective was to determine the impact of MFPP supplied through extruded rice kernels in a rice-based meal on iron status of children participating in the midday meal (MDM) scheme in India. The sensory characteristics of cooked rice containing MFPP in extruded rice kernels, in vitro availability, and loss of iron during cooking from a typical MDM consisting of 125 g rice (dry weight) containing 19 mg Fe [fortified rice (FR); normal rice mixed with Ultra Rice (extruded kernels containing MFPP of ∼3.14-μm mean particle size)] in comparison with unfortified rice (UFR) were tested. A double-blind, 8-mo, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in 5-11-y-old schoolchildren (n = 140) who were randomly assigned to receive either an FR-MDM or a UFR-MDM. Average consumption amounts of the MDM, height, weight, hemoglobin, ferritin, and C-reactive protein were measured at baseline and at 8 mo. The sensory qualities of cooked FR and UFR were similar. The in vitro iron availability from FR-MDM (1.3%) was significantly (P < 0.05) lower than that from UFR-MDM (3.3%). Providing FR-MDM to the schoolchildren for 8 mo improved ferritin significantly (P < 0.001), by 8.2 ± 2.10 μg/L. However, the increase in hemoglobin was similar between groups (FR: 0.99 ± 0.10 g/dL; UFR: 1.15 ± 0.10 g/dL), which suggests that other factors beyond additional iron intake had a large influence on hemoglobin concentration. The prevalence of iron deficiency decreased significantly (P < 0.05) in the FR group (33-14%) and increased marginally in the UFR group (31-37%). The prevalence of anemia and iron deficiency anemia was similar between groups at baseline and at 8 mo. Regular intake of 19 mg Fe/d in MFPP supplied through extruded rice kernels improves iron stores and reduces iron deficiency among schoolchildren in India.
21941532	Perennial ryegrass is an important pasture grass in temperate regions. As a forage biomass-generating species, plant architecture-related characters provide key objectives for breeding improvement. In silico comparative genomics analysis predicted colocation between a previously identified QTL for plant type (erect versus prostrate growth) and the ortholocus of the rice OsABCG5 gene (LpABCG5), as well as related QTLs in other Poaceae species. Sequencing of an LpABCG5-containing BAC clone identified presence of a paralogue (LpABCG6) in the vicinity of the LpABCG5 locus, in addition to three other gene-like sequences. Comparative genomics involving five other 5 grass species (rice, Brachypodium, sorghum, maize, and foxtail millet) revealed conserved microsynteny in the ABCG5 ortholocus-flanking region. Gene expression profiling and phylogenetic analysis suggested that the two paralogues are functionally distinct. Fourteen additional ABCG5 gene family members, which may interact with the LpABCG5 gene, were identified through sequencing of transcriptomes from perennial ryegrass leaf, anther, and pistils. A larger-scale phylogenetic analysis of the ABCG gene family suggested conservation between major branches of the Poaceae family. This study identified the LpABCG5 gene as a candidate for the plant type determinant, suggesting that manipulation of gene expression may provide valuable phenotypes for perennial ryegrass breeding.
21941749	By using light emitting diode (LED) to accurately modulate spectral energy distribution, and with fluorescent light as the control, this paper studied the effects of light quality on the seedlings growth and physiological characteristics of rice cultivars 'Wuyunjing 7' and 'Kangyou 63'. Light quality had significant effects on the seedlings growth, and there existed differences at different growth stages. Blue LED inhibited the height growth significantly, and increased the leaf soluble protein content of 'Wuyunjing 7' and the healthy index of the two rice cultivars at five-leaf stage. Red LED increased the stem diameter and healthy index at three-leaf stage and the leaf soluble sugar and starch contents at five-leaf stage significantly. Red-blue LED increased the root number, stem diameter, healthy index, root activity, and root soluble sugar content at three-leaf stage and the fresh mass, dry mass, healthy index, and leaf soluble sugar and sucrose contents at five-leaf stage significantly. Yellow LED increased the plant height and leaf pigment content at initial growth stage. Overall, red-blue LED was more beneficial to the culture of strong rice seedlings.
21942277	Orysastrobin is a new strobilurin-type fungicide to control leaf and panicle blast and sheath blight in rice. An analytical method was developed to determine the residues of orysastrobin and its two isomers, the main metabolite F001 and the major impurity F033, in hulled rice by the use of high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet photometry (HPLC-UV) and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). All compounds were extracted with acetone from hulled rice samples. The extract was diluted with saline water, and an extraction step using dichloromethane/n-hexane partition was used to recover analytes from the aqueous phase. An n-hexane/acetonitrile partition and Florisil column chromatography were employed to further remove interfering coextractives prior to instrumental analysis. An octadecylsilyl column was successfully applied to identify orysastrobin and its isomers in sample extracts. Net recovery rates of orysastrobin, F001, and F033 from fortified samples ranged from 80.6 to 114.8% using HPLC-UV and LC-MS/MS. Relative standard deviations for the analytical methods were all <20%, and the quantification limits of the method were in the 0.002-0.02 mg/kg range. The proposed methods were reproducible and sufficiently accurate to evaluate the terminal residue of orysastrobin and its isomers in rice.
21942383	The eight vitamin E isomers [α-, β-, γ-, and δ-tocopherols (T) and α-, β-, γ-, and δ-tocotrienols (T3)] and γ-oryzanol are known to possess diverse biological activities. This study examined the contents of these compounds and their distribution in 16 commercial rice varieties in Taiwan. Results showed that the order of vitamin E, total T, total T3, and γ-oryzanol contents was rice bran > brown rice > rice husk > polished rice. γ-T3 was the highest vitamin E isomer present in all rice samples, while β-T, β-T3, δ-T, and δ-T3 were present in trace amounts. The Japonica varieties contained a higher total T, total T3, and γ-oryzanol than the Indica varieties. They also have a higher level of α-T and α-T3 but a lower level of γ-T and γ-T3 than the Indica varieties. However, no obvious difference in total T, total T3, and γ-oryzanol content was noted between black- and red-colored rice varieties.
21942396	The time has come when it is desirable to look for alternative energy resources to confront the global energy crisis. Consideration of the increasing environmental problems and the possible crisis of fossil fuel availability at record high prices dictate that some changes will need to occur sooner rather than later. The recent oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico is just another example of the environmental threats that fossil fuels pose. This paper is an attempt to explore various bio-resources such as corn, barley, oat, rice, wheat, sorghum, sugar, safflower, and coniferous and non-coniferous species for the production of biofuels (ethanol and biodiesel). In order to assess the potential production of biofuel, in this paper, countries are organized into three groups based on: (a) geographic areas; (b) economic development; and(c) lending types, as classified by the World Bank. First, the total fossil fuel energy consumption and supply and possible carbon emission from burning fossil fuel is projected for these three groups of countries. Second, the possibility of production of biofuel from grains and vegetative product is projected. Third, a comparison of fossil fuel and biofuel is done to examine energy sustainability issues.
21942400	Elymus L. is the largest and most complex genus in the Triticeae tribe of grasses with approximately 150 polyploid perennial species occurring worldwide. We report here the first genetic linkage map for Elymus. Backcross mapping populations were created by crossing caespitose Elymus wawawaiensis (EW) (Snake River wheatgrass) and rhizomatous Elymus lanceolatus (EL) (thickspike wheatgrass) to produce F(1) interspecific hybrids that were then backcrossed to the same EL male to generate progeny with segregating phenotypes. EW and EL are both allotetraploid species (n = 14) containing the St (Pseudoroegneria) and H (Hordeum) genomes. A total of 387 backcross progeny from four populations were genotyped using 399 AFLP and 116 EST-based SSR and STS markers. The resulting consensus map was 2574 cM in length apportioned among the expected number of 14 linkage groups. EST-based SSR and STS markers with homology to rice genome sequences were used to identify Elymus linkage groups homoeologous to chromosomes 1-7 of wheat. The frequency of St-derived genome markers on each linkage group was used to assign genome designations to all linkage groups, resulting in the identification of the seven St and seven H linkage groups of Elymus. This map also confirms the alloploidy and disomic chromosome pairing and segregation of Elymus and will be useful in identifying QTLs controlling perennial grass traits in this genus.
21942714	Food preparation methods play a role in micronutrient retention and ultimately intake. Analyses for carotenoids retention and in vitro iron bioavailability of five cowpea leaf dishes prepared according to the traditional methods of rural Tanzania were carried out. All the five dishes are commonly eaten as relishes for staple meals of maize or rice. Laboratory analyses were carried out at the Nutrition Laboratory of the World Vegetable Centre in Taiwan. Carotenoids were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography while iron bioavailability was analysed by an in vitro method. Results showed that traditional cowpea leaf dish consisting of sunflower oil, onion, tomatoes and coconut milk cooked for 30 min had the highest retention of β-carotene (40.83 ± 7.00%) and lutein (34.60 ± 3.30%) compared to other traditional recipes (p < 0.05). The highest iron bioavailability (10.04 ± 0.49%) was observed in the traditional recipe which involved boiling fresh cowpea leaves for 15 min. Although recipe variation can affect carotenoids retention and iron bioavailability, simple practices such as reduced cooking time and avoiding direct sun drying also need to be promoted.
21943343	Photoperiod-sensitive genic male sterile (PGMS) rice, Nongken 58S, was discovered in 1973. It has been widely used for the production of hybrid rice, and great achievements have been made in improving rice yields. However, the mechanism of the male sterility transition in PGMS rice remains to be determined. To investigate the transcriptome during the male sterility transition in PGMS rice, the transcriptome of Nongken 58S under short-day (SD) and long-day (LD) at the glume primordium differentiation and pistil/stamen primordium forming stages was compared. Seventy-three and 128 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at the glume primordium differentiation and pistil/stamen primordium forming stages, respectively. Five and 22 genes were markedly up-regulated (≥ 5-fold), and two and five genes were considerably down-regulated (≥ 5-fold) under SD during the male sterility transition. Gene ontology annotation and pathway analysis revealed that four biological processes and the circadian rhythms and the flowering pathways coordinately regulated the male sterility transition. Further quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated that the circadian rhythms of OsPRR1, OsPRR37, OsGI, Hd1, OsLHY and OsDof in leaves were obviously different between Nongken 58S and Nongken 58 under LD conditions. Moreover, both OsPRR37 and Hd1 in the inflorescence displayed differences between Nongken 58S and Nongken 58 under both LD and SD conditions. The results presented here indicate that the transcriptome in Nongken 58S was significantly suppressed under LD conditions. Among these DEGs, the circadian rhythm and the flowering pathway were involved in the male sterility transition. Furthermore, these pathways were coordinately involved in the male sterility transition in PGMS rice.
21943393	Oligopeptide transporters (OPTs) are a group of membrane-localized proteins that have a broad range of substrate transport capabilities and that are thought to contribute to many biological processes. The OPT proteins belong to a small gene family in plants, which includes about 25 members in Arabidopsis and rice. However, no comprehensive study incorporating phylogeny, chromosomal location, gene structure, expression profiling, functional divergence and selective pressure analysis has been reported thus far for Populus and Vitis. In the present study, a comprehensive analysis of the OPT gene family in Populus (P. trichocarpa) and Vitis (V. vinifera) was performed. A total of 20 and 18 full-length OPT genes have been identified in Populus and Vitis, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that these OPT genes consist of two classes that can be further subdivided into 11 groups. Gene structures are considerably conserved among the groups. The distribution of OPT genes was found to be non-random across chromosomes. A high proportion of the genes are preferentially clustered, indicating that tandem duplications may have contributed significantly to the expansion of the OPT gene family. Expression patterns based on our analyses of microarray data suggest that many OPT genes may be important in stress response and functional development of plants. Further analyses of functional divergence and adaptive evolution show that, while purifying selection may have been the main force driving the evolution of the OPTs, some of critical sites responsible for the functional divergence may have been under positive selection. Overall, the data obtained from our investigation contribute to a better understanding of the complexity of the Populus and Vitis OPT gene family and of the function and evolution of the OPT gene family in higher plants.
21943718	Drug adulteration in dietary supplement materials is a world-wide problem and poses a regulatory challenge. Red yeast rice is a product used by consumers to lower blood levels of cholesterol. While most current methods to analyze red yeast rice are based on HPLC separation with a photo-diode array detector and/or a mass spectrometry detector, which takes 20-40min analysis time per sample, we developed a method to do fast screening of the active compound lovastatin by direct infusion into a mass spectrometer. This method takes under 1min per analysis on the instrument. By using multiple reaction monitoring with five product ions, all the ion ratios of the analyte in the samples are compared with those from the standards for qualitative analysis. The results from this method were compared to the result from the liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, which uses retention time and one ion ratio as the confirmation criteria. No false positives or false negatives were found among the 12 samples tested. The method also seems to be effective in measuring the lovastatin in red yeast rice semi-quantitatively. This kind of method could be adapted to the screening of other dietary supplement products.
21946713	The ability of the native larvivorous fish Aplocheilus panchax (Hamilton, 1822) (Cyprinodontiformes: Aplocheilidae) as predator of mosquito larvae was assessed under laboratory conditions using multiple prey and habitat conditions. The consumption of larvae of the mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus Say 1823 (Diptera: Culicidae) by A. panchax was evaluated in the presence of tubificid worms and chironomid larvae under complex and simple habitat conditions. The number of mosquito larvae consumed in comparison to other prey types was noted and an index of prey selectivity was used to evaluate the preference for mosquito larvae. Aphlocheilus panchax consumed 53 to 65 mosquito larvae in a three hour feeding bout contrast to 29- 38 tubificid worms and 43-62 chironomid larvae depending on the habitat conditions. The prey consumption differed significantly between the habitats and the prey type. The index of prey selectivity was positive for Cx. quinquefasciatus larvae over other alternative prey in all the habitat conditions. It is apparent from the study that the larvivorous fish A. panchax can be employed for biological regulation of mosquitoes in rice -fields and similar wetlands where the multiple prey choices are available under complex habitat conditions. However, field studies including other prey species will be required to substantiate this finding.
21947007	Seasonal fluctuations in day length regulate important aspects of plant development such as the flowering transition or, in potato (Solanum tuberosum), the formation of tubers. Day length is sensed by the leaves, which produce a mobile signal transported to the shoot apex or underground stems to induce a flowering transition or, respectively, a tuberization transition. Work in Arabidopsis, tomato and rice (Oryza sativa) identified the mobile FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) protein as a main component of the long-range 'florigen', or flowering hormone, signal. Here we show that expression of the Hd3a gene, the FT orthologue in rice, induces strict short-day potato types to tuberize in long days. Tuber induction is graft transmissible and the Hd3a-GFP protein is detected in the stolons of grafted plants, transport of the fusion protein thus correlating with tuber formation. We provide evidence showing that the potato floral and tuberization transitions are controlled by two different FT-like paralogues (StSP3D and StSP6A) that respond to independent environmental cues, and show that an autorelay mechanism involving CONSTANS modulates expression of the tuberization-control StSP6A gene.
21947194	The maize orange leafhopper Cicadulina bipunctata is distributed widely in tropical and subtropical regions of the Old World and feeds on various Poaceae. The leafhopper is recognized as an important pest of maize in several countries. Adults as well as nymphs of C. bipunctata induce growth stunting and galls characterized by the severe swelling of leaf veins on many cereal crops including wheat, rice, and maize, but do not on barley. To clarify the mechanism of growth stunting and gall induction by C. bipunctata, we used six barley chromosome disomic addition lines of wheat (2H-7H) and investigated the effect of barley (cv. Betzes) chromosome addition on the susceptibility of wheat (cv. Chinese Spring) to feeding by the leafhopper. Feeding by C. bipunctata significantly stunted the growth in 2H, 3H, 4H, and 5H, but did not in 6H and 7H. The degree of gall induction was significantly weaker and severer in 3H and 5H than in Chinese Spring, respectively. These results suggest that barley genes resistant to growth stunting and gall induction exist in 6H and 7H, and 3H, respectively. 5H is considered to be useful for future assays investigating the mechanism of gall induction by this leafhopper because of the high susceptibility to the feeding by C. bipunctata. Significant correlation between the degrees of growth stunting and gall induction was not detected in the six chromosome addition lines and Chinese spring. This implies that these two symptoms are independent phenomena although both are initiated by the feeding of C. bipunctata.
21947325	Hybridization and introgression can play an important role in genetic differentiation and adaptive evolution of plant species. For example, a conspecific feral species may frequently acquire new alleles from its coexisting crops via introgression. However, little is known about this process. We analyzed 24 weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) populations and their coexisting rice cultivars from northern Italy to study their genetic differentiation, outcrossing, and introgression based on microsatellite polymorphisms. A total of 576 maternal plants representing 24 weedy populations were used to estimate their genetic differentiation, and 5,395 progeny (seedlings) derived from 299 families of 15 selected populations were included to measure outcrossing rates. Considerable genetic differentiation (F (st) = 0.26) was detected among weedy rice populations, although the differentiation was not associated with the spatial pattern of the populations. Private alleles (28%) were identified in most populations that exhibited a multiple cluster assignments, indicating stronger genetic affinities of some weedy populations. Outcrossing rates were greatly variable and positively correlated (R (2) = 0.34, P = 0.02) with the private alleles of the corresponding populations. Paternity analysis suggested that ~15% of paternal specific alleles, a considerable portion of which was found to be crop-specific, were acquired from the introgression of the coexisting rice cultivars. Frequent allelic introgression into weedy populations resulting from outcrossing with nearby cultivars determines the private alleles of local feral populations, possibly leading to their genetic differentiation. Introgression from a crop may play an important role in the adaptive evolution of feral populations.
21947621	Tillering in cereals is a complex process in the regulation of which also signals from the roots in the form of strigolactones play an important role. The strigolactones are signalling molecules that are secreted into the rhizosphere where they act as germination stimulants for root parasitic plants and hyphal branching factors for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. On the other hand, they are also transported from the roots to the shoot where they inhibit tillering or branching. In the present study, the genetic variation in strigolactone production and tillering phenotype was studied in twenty rice varieties collected from all over the world and correlated with S. hermonthica infection. Rice cultivars like IAC 165, IAC 1246, Gangweondo and Kinko produced high amounts of the strigolactones orobanchol, 2'-epi-5-deoxystrigol and three methoxy-5-deoxystrigol isomers and displayed low amounts of tillers. These varieties induced high S. hermonthica germination, attachment, emergence as well as dry biomass. In contrast, rice cultivars such as Super Basmati, TN 1, Anakila and Agee displayed high tillering in combination with low production of the aforementioned strigolactones. These varieties induced only low S. hermonthica germination, attachment, emergence and dry biomass. Statistical analysis across all the varieties confirmed a positive correlation between strigolactone production and S. hermonthica infection and a negative relationship with tillering. These results show that genetic variation in tillering capacity is the result of genetic variation in strigolactone production and hence could be a helpful tool in selecting rice cultivars that are less susceptible to S. hermonthica infection.
21947763	Marine-derived fungi are prone to produce structurally unique secondary metabolites, a considerable number of which display the promising biological properties and/or industrial applications. Among those, ligninolytic enzymes have attracted great interest in recent years. In this work, about 20 strains were isolated from sea mud samples collected in the East China Sea and then screened for their capacity to produce lignin-degrading enzymes. The results showed that a strain, named J63, had a great potential to secrete a considerable amount of laccase. Using molecular method, it was identified as an endophytic fungus, Pestalotiopsis sp. which was rarely reported as ligninolytic enzyme producer in the literature. The production of laccase by Pestalotiopsis sp. J63 was investigated under submerged fermentation (SF) and solid state fermentation (SSF) with various lignocellulosic by-products as substrates. The SSF of rice straw powder accumulated the highest level of laccase activity (10,700 IU/g substrate), whereas the SF of untreated sugarcane bagasse provided the maximum amount of laccase activity (2,000 IU/ml). The value was far higher than those reported by other reports. In addition, it produced 0.11 U/ml cellulase when alkaline-pretreated sugarcane bagasse was used as growth substrate under SF. Meanwhile, the growth of fungi and laccase production under different salinity conditions were also studied. It appeared to be a moderately halo-tolerant organism.
21950137	Molecular-genetic analysis of soriz genotypes (Sorghum oryzoidum), its paternal form Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench (grain sorghum), possible parents (Sorghum sudanense (Piper.) Stapf. (Sudan grass) and Oryza sativa L. (rice planting)) and the nearest relatives has been carried out using microsatellite (MS) loci of sorghum and rice. Based on these data genetic distances have been calculated. It was shown that soriz do not bear DNA fragments of rice, but contains in its genome DNA fragments belonging to the Sudanese grass indicating that the origin of soriz is associated with Sorghum sudanense.
21951138	In higher plants, a small subunit of Rubisco is encoded for by an RBCS multigene family in the nuclear genome. However, it is unknown how each multigene member contributes to the accumulation of Rubisco holoenzyme. Here, four RBCS genes that are highly expressed in leaf blaedes of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were individually suppressed by RNAi, and the effects on leaf Rubisco content were examined at seedling, vegetative and reproductive stages. Rubisco contents in each transgenic line declined irrespective of growth stage, and the ratios of Rubisco-N to total N were 66-96% of wild-type levels. The mRNA levels of the suppressed RBCS genes declined significantly, whereas those of the unsuppressed ones did not change drastically. These results indicate that four RBCS genes all contribute to accumulation of Rubisco holoenzyme irrespective of growth stage and that suppression of one RBCS gene is not fully compensated by other RBCS genes. Additionally, the mRNA levels of the large subunit of Rubisco showed a change similar to that of total RBCS mRNA level irrespective of genotype and growth stage. These results suggest that gene expression of RBCS and RBCL is regulated in a coordinated manner at the transcript level in rice.
21951842	Homeobox transcription factors are involved in various aspects of plant development, including maintenance of the biosynthesis and signaling pathways of different hormones. However, few direct targets of homeobox proteins have been identified. We here show that overexpression of rice homeobox gene HOX1a resulted in enhanced gibberellin (GA) response, indicating a positive effect of HOX1a in GA signaling. HOX1a is induced by GA and encodes a homeobox transcription factor with transcription repression activity. In addition, HOX1a suppresses the transcription of early flowering1 (EL1), a negative regulator of GA signaling, and further electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that HOX1a directly bound to the promoter region of EL1 to suppress its expression and stimulate GA signaling. These results demonstrate that HOX1a functions as a positive regulator of GA signaling by suppressing EL1, providing informative hints on the study of GA signaling.
21952107	Nanoemulsions have practical application in a multitude of commercial areas, such as the chemical, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. Cosmetic industries use rice bran oil in sunscreen formulations, anti ageing products and in treatments for skin diseases. The aim of this study was to create rice bran oil nanoemulsions using low energy emulsification methods and to evaluate their physical stability, irritation potential and moisturising activity on volunteers with normal and diseased skin types. The nanoemulsion developed by this phase diagram method was composed of 10% rice bran oil, 10% surfactants sorbitan oleate/PEG-30 castor oil, 0.05% antioxidant and 0.50% preservatives formulated in distilled water. The nanoemulsion was stable over the time course of this study. In vitro assays showed that this formulation has a low irritation potential, and when applied to human skin during in vivo studies, the nanoemulsion improved the skin's moisture and maintained normal skin pH values. The results of irritation potential studies and in vivo assessments indicate that this nanoemulsion has potential to be a useful tool to treat skin diseases, such as atopic dermatitis and psoriasis.
21952207	During the domestication of rice (Oryza sativa L.), diversification of flowering time was important in expanding the areas of cultivation. Rice is a facultative short day (SD) plant and requires certain periods of dark to induce flowering. Heading date 1 (Hd1), a regulator of the florigen gene Hd3a, is one of the main factors used to generate diversity in flowering. Loss-of-function alleles of Hd1 are common in cultivated rice and cause the diversity of flowering time. However, it is unclear how these functional nucleotide polymorphisms of Hd1 accumulated in the course of evolution. Nucleotide polymorphisms within Hd1 and Hd3a were analyzed in 38 accessions of ancestral wild rice Oryza rufipogon and compared with those of cultivated rice. In contrast to cultivated rice, no nucleotide changes affecting Hd1 function were found in 38 accessions of wild rice ancestors. No functional changes were found in Hd3a in either cultivated or ancestral rice. A phylogenetic analysis indicated that evolution of the Hd1 alleles may have occurred independently in cultivars descended from various accessions of ancestral rice. The non-functional Hd1 alleles found in cultivated rice may be selected during domestication, because they were not found or very rare in wild ancestral rice. In contrast with Hd3a, which has been highly conserved, Hd1 may have undergone human selection to diversify the flowering times of rice during domestication or the early stage of the cultivation period.
21952211	As a useful tool to elucidate gene functions, a rice transposon tagging line has been developed using an active endogenous DNA transposon, nDart1. It was highly desirable to evaluate the transposition timing and frequency of the nDart1 elements during rice development to facilitate the generation of an efficient mutant isolation system. Comparison of the detected new insertions at different stages of rice development by transposon display analysis demonstrated that the last heading tiller carry a higher number of nDart1 elements than the main culm. Moreover, it was revealed that the last heading tiller could produce progeny that carried more new insertions of nDart1 elements, mainly as a result of the accumulation of somatic insertions in the parental plant. This report demonstrates that late tillers increase the probability of producing independent mutant lines.
21952365	Endophytic fungi are little known for their role in gibberellins (GAs) synthesis and abiotic stress resistance in crop plants. We isolated 10 endophytes from the roots of field-grown soybean and screened their culture filtrates (CF) on the GAs biosynthesis mutant rice line - Waito-C. CF bioassay showed that endophyte GMH-1B significantly promoted the growth of Waito-C compared with controls. GMH-1B was identified as Penicillium minioluteum LHL09 on the basis of ITS regions rDNA sequence homology and phylogenetic analyses. GC/MS-SIM analysis of CF of P. minioluteum revealed the presence of bioactive GA(4) and GA(7). In endophyte-soybean plant interaction, P. minioluteum association significantly promoted growth characteristics (shoot length, shoot fresh and dry biomasses, chlorophyll content, and leaf area) and nitrogen assimilation, with and without sodium chloride (NaCl)-induced salinity (70 and 140 mM) stress, as compared with control. Field-emission scanning electron microcopy showed active colonization of endophyte with host plants before and after stress treatments. In response to salinity stress, low endogenous abscisic acid and high salicylic acid accumulation in endophyte-associated plants elucidated the stress mitigation by P. minioluteum. The endophytic fungal symbiosis of P. minioluteum also increased the daidzein and genistein contents in the soybean as compared with control plants, under salt stress. Thus, P. minioluteum ameliorated the adverse effects of abiotic salinity stress and rescued soybean plant growth by influencing biosynthesis of the plant's hormones and flavonoids.
21952371	A fungal strain, Aspergillus terreus strain GA2, isolated from an agricultural field cultivating sweet sorghum, produced feruloyl esterase using maize bran. In order to obtain maximum yields of feruloyl esterase, the solid state fermentation (SSF) conditions for enzyme production were standardized. Effective feruloyl esterase production was observed with maize bran as substrate followed by wheat bran, coconut husk, and rice husk among the tested agro-waste crop residues. Optimum particle size of 0.71- 0.3 mm and moisture content of 80% favored enzyme production. Moreover, optimum feruloyl esterase production was observed at pH 6.0 and a temperature of 30 degrees C. Supplementation of potato starch (0.6%) as the carbon source and casein (1%) as the nitrogen source favored enzyme production. Furthermore, the culture produced the enzyme after 7 days of incubation when the C:N ratio was 5. Optimization of the SSF conditions revealed that maximum enzyme activity (1,162 U/gds) was observed after 7 days in a production medium of 80% moisture content and pH 6.0 containing 16 g maize bran [25% (w/v)] of particle size of 0.71-0.3 mm, 0.6% potato starch, 3.0% casein, and 64 ml of formulated basal salt solution. Overall, the enzyme production was enhanced by 3.2-fold as compared with un-optimized conditions.
21952956	The fall army worm Spodoptera frugiperda (Smith) is a migratory important pest of corn, sorghum, rice, grass and bermudagrass in North and South America. This species has diverged into two genetically differentiated but morphologically identical strains, "the rice" and "the corn". They have been analyzed by sequencing the genes cytochrome oxydase I, II and ITS1 from populations from the United States and Brazil. However, no such studies were performed in Colombia. In here, we identified 43 haplotypes by sequencing a fragment of the COI gene from 102 individuals, of which 40 had already been identified as the "corn" and "rice" strains or to their hybrids from Tolima, and the rest were collected from corn, cotton, sorghum, grass and rice fields in other regions of Colombia. The corn strain haplotype H1 was the most frequently found in this country, representing the main target for FAW monitoring programs. AMOVA analysis confirmed the population structure between Colombian and North American S. frugiperda haplotypes (F(ST) = 0.76812, P < 0.001), but not within the different Colombian regions, suggesting high gene flow within the country. The ML trees obtained for Tolima and for Colombia as a whole did not generate clustering amongst S. frugiperda sequences, neither via host-plant association nor by geographical areas. The minimum spanning network for Colombia corroborated our finding that the haplotype H1 has the highest frequency in the country. Our data suggest that haplotype frequency determination will be useful in the establishment of a monitoring system for this species.
21953535	Organic substrates and calcium are important factors controlling organic matter turnover in Karst soils. To understand their effects on soil organic carbon (SOC) mineralization, an incubation experiment was conducted involving a control treatment (CK), the addition of a (14)C-labeled rice straw (T1), CaCO(3) (T2), and both (14)C-labeled rice straw and CaCO(3) (T3) to two types of Karst soils (terra fusca and rendzina) and a red soil from southwestern China. Cumulative mineralization of the rice straw over 100 days in rendzina (22.96 mg kg(-1)) and terra fusca (23.19 mg kg(-1)) was higher than in the red soil (15.48 mg kg(-1); P < 0.05). Cumulative mineralization of native SOC decreased following addition of (14)C-labeled rice straw in the rendzina and terra fusca but increased in the red soil (negative and positive priming effects on native SOC). The turnover times of (14)C-labeled microbial biomass C (MBC) in the red soil, terra fusca and rendzina were 71 ± 2, 243 ± 20 and 254 ± 45 days, respectively. By adding CaCO(3), the accumulation of SOC was greater in the Karst soils than in the red soil. Although the interactions between rice straw decomposition and priming effects on native SOC are not yet understood, there was considerable variation between Karst and red soils. Soil calcium was a positive factor in maintaining SOC stability. MBC from rice straws was stable in terra fusca and rendzina, whereas it was active in the red soil. The Karst soils (terra fusca and rendzina) used in this study benefited SOC accumulation.
21954158	In maize, a series of seed mutants with starchy endosperm could increase the lysine content by decreased amount of zeins, the main storage proteins in endosperm. Cloning and characterization of these mutants could reveal regulatory mechanisms for zeins accumulation in maize endosperm. Opaque7 (o7) is a classic maize starchy endosperm mutant with large effects on zeins accumulation and high lysine content. In this study, the O7 gene was cloned by map-based cloning and confirmed by transgenic functional complementation and RNAi. The o7-ref allele has a 12-bp in-frame deletion. The four-amino-acid deletion caused low accumulation of o7 protein in vivo. The O7 gene encodes an acyl-activating enzyme with high similarity to AAE3. The opaque phenotype of the o7 mutant was produced by the reduction of protein body size and number caused by a decrease in the α-zeins concentrations. Analysis of amino acids and metabolites suggested that the O7 gene might affect amino acid biosynthesis by affecting α-ketoglutaric acid and oxaloacetic acid. Transgenic rice seeds containing RNAi constructs targeting the rice ortholog of maize O7 also produced lower amounts of seed proteins and displayed an opaque endosperm phenotype, indicating a conserved biological function of O7 in cereal crops. The cloning of O7 revealed a novel regulatory mechanism for storage protein synthesis and highlighted an effective target for the genetic manipulation of storage protein contents in cereal seeds.
21954164	Seed dormancy has been associated with red grain color in cereal crops for a century. The association was linked to qSD7-1/qPC7, a cluster of quantitative trait loci for seed dormancy/pericarp color in weedy red rice. This research delimited qSD7-1/qPC7 to the Os07g11020 or Rc locus encoding a basic helix-loop-helix family transcription factor by intragenic recombinants and provided unambiguous evidence that the association arises from pleiotropy. The pleiotropic gene expressed in early developing seeds promoted expression of key genes for biosynthesis of abscisic acid (ABA), resulting in an increase in accumulation of the dormancy-inducing hormone; activated a conserved network of eight genes for flavonoid biosynthesis to produce the pigments in the lower epidermal cells of the pericarp tissue; and enhanced seed weight. Thus, the pleiotropic locus most likely controls the dormancy and pigment traits by regulating ABA and flavonoid biosynthetic pathways, respectively. The dormancy effect could be eliminated by a heat treatment, but could not be completely overcome by gibberellic acid or physical removal of the seed maternal tissues. The dormancy-enhancing alleles differentiated into two groups basically associated with tropical and temperate ecotypes of weedy rice. Of the pleiotropic effects, seed dormancy could contribute most to the weed adaptation. Pleiotropy prevents the use of the dormancy gene to improve resistance of white pericarp cultivars against pre-harvest sprouting through conventional breeding approaches.
21954461	Plants have a chemically heterogeneous lipophilic layer, the cuticle, which protects them from biotic and abiotic stresses. The mechanisms that regulate cuticle development are poorly understood. We identified a rice (Oryza sativa) dominant curly leaf mutant, curly flag leaf1 (cfl1), and cloned CFL1, which encodes a WW domain protein. We overexpressed both rice and Arabidopsis CFL1 in Arabidopsis thaliana; these transgenic plants showed severely impaired cuticle development, similar to that in cfl1 rice. Reduced expression of At CFL1 resulted in reinforcement of cuticle structure. At CFL1 was predominantly expressed in specialized epidermal cells and in regions where dehiscence and abscission occur. Biochemical evidence showed that At CFL1 interacts with HDG1, a class IV homeodomain-leucine zipper transcription factor. Suppression of HDG1 function resulted in similar defective cuticle phenotypes in wild-type Arabidopsis but much alleviated phenotypes in At cfl1-1 mutants. The expression of two cuticle development-associated genes, BDG and FDH, was downregulated in At CFL1 overexpressor and HDG1 suppression plants. HDG1 binds to the cis-element L1 box, which exists in the regulatory regions of BDG and FDH. Our results suggest that rice and Arabidopsis CFL1 negatively regulate cuticle development by affecting the function of HDG1, which regulates the downstream genes BDG and FDH.
21955397	PR4 proteins constitute a pathogenesis-related (PR) protein family with a conserved BARWIN domain. In this study, we analyzed PR4-homologous genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and identified five putative PR4 genes designated as OsPR4a-e. The five PR4 genes are located in tandem on chromosome 11 and constitute a gene cluster with high sequence similarity to each other. The OsPR4 proteins have high sequence similarity to reported PR4 proteins from monocotyledonous species and are predicted to be class II PR4 proteins. Distinct diversification of plant PR4 proteins exists between monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. Except for OsPR4e, which was not detected with any transcript, the other four OsPR4 genes showed diverse temporal-spatial expression patterns, and their expressions are responsive to Magnaporthe grisea infection. Interestingly, the OsPR4 genes are also responsive to abiotic stresses. Their expression levels were strongly induced by at least one of the stress treatments including drought, salt, cold, wounding, heat shock, and ultraviolet. The transcript levels of OsPR4 genes were also induced by some phytohormones such as abscisic acid and jasmonic acid. Transgenic rice with overexpression of OsPR4a showed enhanced tolerance to drought at both seedling and reproductive stages. We conclude that rice PR4 genes are also involved in abiotic stress responses and tolerance in addition to their responsiveness to pathogen attacks.
21955495	The critical biological roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) have been well recognized. However, knowledge on the regulatory activities of miRNA*s is limited. Although several studies pointed to the capacity of this small RNA species to repress target genes in animals, few related analyses were performed in plants. Here, we set out to uncover the repressive effects of miRNA*s on their targets in both Arabidopsis and rice. Systemic identification of miRNA*s was performed through secondary structure-based predictions and expression level-based verification. The targets of the miRNA*s were predicted and further filtered based on degradome sequencing data, resulting in comprehensive miRNA*--target lists with high reliability. Besides, comprehensive miRNA--target lists were also obtained. The phenomenon that one transcript was targeted by two or more miRNA(*)s was observed, which was defined as co-regulation. Finally, comprehensive miRNA- and miRNA*-mediated regulatory networks were constructed. Further investigation of some specific subnetworks implied the utility of these networks for biologists. This study could broaden the current understanding of miRNA gene-mediated regulation in plants.
21955653	Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a C4 perennial grass and has been identified as a potential bioenergy crop for cellulosic ethanol because of its rapid growth rate, nutrient use efficiency and widespread distribution throughout North America. The improvement of bioenergy feedstocks is needed to make cellulosic ethanol economically feasible, and genetic engineering of switchgrass is a promising approach towards this goal. A crucial component of creating transgenic switchgrass is having the capability of transforming the explants with DNA sequences of interest using vector constructs. However, there are limited options with the monocot plant vectors currently available. With this in mind, a versatile set of Gateway-compatible destination vectors (termed pANIC) was constructed to be used in monocot plants for transgenic crop improvement. The pANIC vectors can be used for transgene overexpression or RNAi-mediated gene suppression. The pANIC vector set includes vectors that can be utilized for particle bombardment or Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. All the vectors contain (i) a Gateway cassette for overexpression or silencing of the target sequence, (ii) a plant selection cassette and (iii) a visual reporter cassette. The pANIC vector set was functionally validated in switchgrass and rice and allows for high-throughput screening of sequences of interest in other monocot species as well.
21957990	Although a great deal of rice proteomic research has been conducted, there are relatively few studies specifically addressing the rice grain proteome. The existing rice grain proteomic researches have focused on the identification of differentially expressed proteins or monitoring protein expression patterns during grain filling stages. Proteins were extracted from rice grains 10, 20, and 30 days after flowering, as well as from fully mature grains. By merging all of the identified proteins in this study, we identified 4,172 non-redundant proteins with a wide range of molecular weights (from 5.2 kDa to 611 kDa) and pI values (from pH 2.9 to pH 12.6). A Genome Ontology category enrichment analysis for the 4,172 proteins revealed that 52 categories were enriched, including the carbohydrate metabolic process, transport, localization, lipid metabolic process, and secondary metabolic process. The relative abundances of the 1,784 reproducibly identified proteins were compared to detect 484 differentially expressed proteins during rice grain development. Clustering analysis and Genome Ontology category enrichment analysis revealed that proteins involved in the metabolic process were enriched through all stages of development, suggesting that proteome changes occurred even in the desiccation phase. Interestingly, enrichments of proteins involved in protein folding were detected in the desiccation phase and in fully mature grain. This is the first report conducting comprehensive identification of rice grain proteins. With a label free shotgun proteomic approach, we identified large number of rice grain proteins and compared the expression patterns of reproducibly identified proteins during rice grain development. Clustering analysis, Genome Ontology category enrichment analysis, and the analysis of composite expression profiles revealed dynamic changes of metabolisms during rice grain development. Interestingly, we detected that proteins involved in glycolysis, TCA-cycle, lipid metabolism, and proteolysis accumulated at higher levels in fully mature grain compared to grain developing stages, suggesting that the accumulation of these proteins during the desiccation stage may be associated with the preparation of proteins required in germination.
21958526	A combination of a twin-screw extrusion and an acid-catalyzed hot water extraction process performed at a bench-scale was used to prepare high monomeric xylose hydrolysate for cellulosic production. The influences of the screw speed (30-150 rpm), barrel temperature (80-160 °C) and corresponding specific mechanical energy of the extruder on the structural properties of the pretreated rice straw, sugar concentration and conversion were investigated. The optimal condition for the extrusion step was determined to be 40 rpm with 3% H2SO4 at 120 °C; the optimal condition for the extraction step was determined to be 130 °C for 20 min. After the pretreatment at the optimal condition, 83.7% of the xylan was converted to monomeric xylose, and the concentration reached levels of 53.7 g/L. Finally, after the subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis, an 80% yield of the total saccharification was obtained.
21959304	At present, environmental degradation and the consistently growing population are two main problems on the planet earth. Fulfilling the needs of this growing population is quite difficult from the limited arable land available on the globe. Although there are legal, social and political barriers to the utilization of biotechnology, advances in this field have substantially improved agriculture and human life to a great extent. One of the vital tools of biotechnology is genetic engineering (GE) which is used to modify plants, animals and microorganisms according to desired needs. In fact, genetic engineering facilitates the transfer of desired characteristics into other plants which is not possible through conventional plant breeding. A variety of crops have been engineered for enhanced resistance to a multitude of stresses such as herbicides, insecticides, viruses and a combination of biotic and abiotic stresses in different crops including rice, mustard, maize, potato, tomato, etc. Apart from the use of GE in agriculture, it is being extensively employed to modify the plants for enhanced production of vaccines, hormones, etc. Vaccines against certain diseases are certainly available in the market, but most of them are very costly. Developing countries cannot afford the disease control through such cost-intensive vaccines. Alternatively, efforts are being made to produce edible vaccines which are cheap and have many advantages over the commercialized vaccines. Transgenic plants generated for this purpose are capable of expressing recombinant proteins including viral and bacterial antigens and antibodies. Common food plants like banana, tomato, rice, carrot, etc. have been used to produce vaccines against certain diseases like hepatitis B, cholera, HIV, etc. Thus, the up- and down-regulation of desired genes which are used for the modification of plants have a marked role in the improvement of genetic crops. In this review, we have comprehensively discussed the role of genetic engineering in generating transgenic lines/cultivars of different crops with improved nutrient quality, biofuel production, enhanced production of vaccines and antibodies, increased resistance against insects, herbicides, diseases and abiotic stresses as well as the safety measures for their commercialization.
21959793	Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (BADH2) is believed to be involved in the accumulation of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), one of the major aromatic compounds in fragrant rice. The enzyme can oxidize ω-aminoaldehydes to the corresponding ω-amino acids. This study was carried out to investigate the function of wild-type BADHs and four BADH2 mutants: BADH2_Y420, containing a Y420 insertion similar to BADH2.8 in Myanmar fragrance rice, BADH2_C294A, BADH2_E260A and BADH2_N162A, consisting of a single catalytic-residue mutation. Our results showed that the BADH2_Y420 mutant exhibited less catalytic efficiency towards γ-aminobutyraldehyde but greater efficiency towards betaine aldehyde than wild-type. We hypothesized that this point mutation may account for the accumulation of γ-aminobutyraldehyde/Δ(1)-pyrroline prior to conversion to 2AP, generating fragrance in Myanmar rice. In addition, the three catalytic-residue mutants confirmed that residues C294, E260 and N162 were involved in the catalytic activity of BADH2 similar to those of other BADHs.
21959872	This study reports how Traditional Ecological Knowledge (TEK) and informal cultural institutions have conserved key varieties of the wildgrowing rice, 'tinni' (red rice, or brownbeard rice, Oriza rufipogon Griff.), within the Bhar community of eastern Uttar Pradesh, India. The study was conducted, using conventional and participatory methods, in 10 purposively selected Bhar villages. Two distinct varieties of tinni ('tinni patali' and 'tinni moti') with differing habitats and phenotypic characters were identified. Seven microecosystems (Kari, Badaila, Chammo, Karmol, Bhainsiki, Bhainsala and Khodailia) were found to support these varieties in differing proportions. Tinni rice can withstand more extreme weather conditions (the highest as well as lowest temperatures and rainfall regimes) than the 'genetically improved' varieties of rice (Oriza sativa L.) grown in the region. Both tinni varieties are important bioresources for the Bhar's subsistence livelihoods, and they use distinctive conservation approaches in their maintenance. Bhar women are the main custodians of tinni rice agrobiodiversity, conserving tinni through an institution called Sajha. Democratic decision-making at meetings organized by village elders determines the market price of the tinni varieties. Overall, the indigenous institutions and women's participation seem to have provided safeguards from excessive exploitation of tinni rice varieties. The maintenance of tinni through cultural knowledge and institutions serves as an example of the importance of locally maintained crop varieties in contributing to people's resilience and food security in times of rapid social and environmental change.
21959909	Spike density in barley is under the control of several major genes, as documented previously by genetic analysis of a number of morphological mutants. One such class of mutants affects the rachis internode length leading to dense or compact spikes and the underlying genes were designated dense spike (dsp). We previously delimited two introgressed genomic segments on chromosome 3H (21 SNP loci, 35.5 cM) and 7H (17 SNP loci, 20.34 cM) in BW265, a BC(7)F(3) nearly isogenic line (NIL) of cv. Bowman as potentially containing the dense spike mutant locus dsp.ar, by genotyping 1,536 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers in both BW265 and its recurrent parent. Here, the gene was allocated by high-resolution bi-parental mapping to a 0.37 cM interval between markers SC57808 (Hv_SPL14)-CAPSK06413 residing on the short and long arm at the genetic centromere of chromosome 7H, respectively. This region putatively contains more than 800 genes as deduced by comparison with the collinear regions of barley, rice, sorghum and Brachypodium, Classical map-based isolation of the gene dsp.ar thus will be complicated due to the infavorable relationship of genetic to physical distances at the target locus.
21961049	WRKY transcription factors regulate diverse plant processes including responses to biotic stresses. Our previous studies indicate that OsWRKY62, an OsWRKY IIa subfamily member, functions as a negative regulator of the rice defense against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Here, we report that a large inverted repeat construct designed to knock down the expression of the four OsWRKY IIa subfamily members (OsWRKY62, OsWRKY28, OsWRKY71, and OsWRKY76) leads to overexpression of all four genes and disease resistance in some transgenic plants. These phenotypes are stably inherited as reflected by progeny analysis. A pathogenesis-related gene, PR10, is up-regulated in plants overexpressing the OsWRKY IIa genes. These results suggest that OsWRKY IIa proteins interact functionally to modulate plant innate immunity.
21961694	Plant protoplasts, a proven physiological and versatile cell system, are widely used in high-throughput analysis and functional characterization of genes. Green protoplasts have been successfully used in investigations of plant signal transduction pathways related to hormones, metabolites and environmental challenges. In rice, protoplasts are commonly prepared from suspension cultured cells or etiolated seedlings, but only a few studies have explored the use of protoplasts from rice green tissue. Here, we report a simplified method for isolating protoplasts from normally cultivated young rice green tissue without the need for unnecessary chemicals and a vacuum device. Transfections of the generated protoplasts with plasmids of a wide range of sizes (4.5-13 kb) and co-transfections with multiple plasmids achieved impressively high efficiencies and allowed evaluations by 1) protein immunoblotting analysis, 2) subcellular localization assays, and 3) protein-protein interaction analysis by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) and firefly luciferase complementation (FLC). Importantly, the rice green tissue protoplasts were photosynthetically active and sensitive to the retrograde plastid signaling inducer norflurazon (NF). Transient expression of the GFP-tagged light-related transcription factor OsGLK1 markedly upregulated transcript levels of the endogeneous photosynthetic genes OsLhcb1, OsLhcp, GADPH and RbcS, which were reduced to some extent by NF treatment in the rice green tissue protoplasts. We show here a simplified and highly efficient transient gene expression system using photosynthetically active rice green tissue protoplasts and its broad applications in protein immunoblot, localization and protein-protein interaction assays. These rice green tissue protoplasts will be particularly useful in studies of light/chloroplast-related processes.
21962455	Iodine has been used as an effective tool for studying both the structure and composition of dispersed starch and starch granules. In addition to being employed to assess relative amylose contents for starch samples, it has been used to look at the molecular mobility of the glucose polymers within intact starch granules based on exposure to iodine vapor equilibrated at different water activities. Starches of different botanical origin including corn, high amylose corn, waxy corn, potato, waxy potato, tapioca, wheat, rice, waxy rice, chick pea and mung bean were equilibrated to 0.33, 0.75, 0.97 water activities, exposed to iodine vapor and then absorbance spectra and LAB color were determined. In addition, a new iodine quantification method sensitive to <0.1% iodine (w/w) was employed to measure bound iodine within intact granular starch. Amylose content, particle size distribution of granules, and the density of the starch were also determined to explore whether high levels of long linear glucose chains and the surface area-to-volume ratio were important factors relating to the granular iodine binding. Results showed, in all cases, starches complexed more iodine as water content increased and waxy starches bound less iodine than their normal starch counterparts. However, much more bound iodine could be measured chemically with waxy starches than was expected based on colorimetric determination. Surface area appeared to be a factor as smaller rice and waxy rice starch granules complexed more iodine, while the larger potato and waxy potato granules complexed less than would be expected based on measured amylose contents. Corn, high amylose corn, and wheat, known to have starch granules with extensive surface pores, bound higher levels of iodine suggesting pores and channels may be an important factor giving iodine vapor greater access to bind within the granules. Exposing iodine vapor to moisture-equilibrated native starches is an effective tool to explore starch granule architecture.
21963016	Consumption of certain dietary patterns, such as a Western diet, has been associated with unfavorable physiologic outcomes. Diet has been proposed as a contributor to allostatic load, a composite measure of physiological dysregulation. To determine the association of dietary patterns, defined by "meat and french fries," "traditional Puerto Rican foods" (rice, beans, and oils), or "sweets," with allostatic load, and with the 10 individual physiologic parameters that comprise it. Baseline data collected from participants of the Boston Puerto Rican Health Study (n=1,117; aged 45 to 75 years) was used to run linear and logistic regression models, adjusting for age, sex, alcohol intake, smoking, medications, energy intake, and body mass index or physical activity. Significant trends across increasing quintiles of the meat and french fries pattern were observed for higher allostatic load score (P=0.002), waist circumference (P=0.032), systolic blood pressure (P=0.008), and diastolic blood pressure (P<0.0001). Participants in the highest quintile of the meat and french fries pattern had significantly higher allostatic load score than those in the lowest quintile (mean 4.3±0.11 vs 3.9±0.12, P=0.030), and had higher odds of having high allostatic load (odds ratio [95% confidence interval]: 1.8 [1.2 to 2.9]), low dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (odds ratio 1.9 [95% confidence interval: 1.2 to 3.1]), and high glycosylated hemoglobin (odds ratio 1.7 (95% confidence interval: 1.0 to 2.9]). The traditional pattern was not associated with allostatic load, whereas a significant association between the sweets pattern and allostatic load disappeared after restricting analysis to participants without diabetes. A meat, processed meat, and french fries dietary pattern may contribute to the deregulation of multiple physiologic parameters in Puerto Rican adults. Efforts to limit consumption of this pattern may help prevent further cumulative physiological dysregulation in this high risk population.
21963018	Consumption of whole grains, such as brown rice, compared to white rice can decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. This qualitative study conducted in 2009 sought to identify factors that can act as barriers to or promote acceptance of brown rice as a staple food among South Indian adults (n=65). Using purposeful sampling, eight focus groups were conducted among adults with normal body mass index and adults who were overweight, aged 24 to 47 years, living in slum and non-slum sites in Chennai, a city in Southern India. These focus groups, conducted in Tamil, the local language of Chennai, were homogenous by sex. The focus groups were audiotaped after obtaining consent. Results were transcribed and coded according to four major themes that emerged during the focus group discussions, including culture and dietary practices, factors influencing rice preferences, awareness and perceptions of brown rice, and barriers to and factors influencing acceptance of brown rice. Overall, the majority of participants favored eating rice and rice-based foods. Tradition largely dictated the specific form of rice that people consumed. Awareness about the nutritive properties of brown rice was poor and was cited as a major barrier to its acceptance. In addition, participants tended to consider cooked rice that was neither white nor long-grained to be inferior. However, they believed that although convincing people to switch to brown rice would be a slow process, promoting its healthful benefits could serve to popularize it.
21963588	Rice cultivation has drastically increased in Africa over the last decade. During this time, the region has also seen a rise in the incidence of rice bacterial blight caused by the pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. The disease is expanding to new rice production areas and threatens food security in the region. Yield losses caused by X. oryzae pv. oryzae range from 20 to 30% and can be as high as 50% in some areas. Employing resistant cultivars is the most economical and effective way to control this disease. To facilitate development and strategic deployment of rice cultivars with resistance to bacterial blight, biotechnology tools and approaches, including marker-assisted breeding, gene combinations for disease control, and multiplex-PCR for pathogen diagnosis, have been developed. Although these technologies are routinely used elsewhere, their application in Africa remains limited, usually due to high cost and advanced technical skills required. To combat this problem, developers of the technologies at research institutions need to work with farmers from an early stage to create and promote the integration of successful, low cost applications of research biotech products. Here, we review the current knowledge and biotechnologies available to improve bacterial blight control. We will also discuss how to facilitate their application in Africa and delivery to the field.
21963665	Aerial architecture in higher plants is dependent on the activity of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and axillary meristems (AMs). The SAM produces a main shoot and leaf primordia, while AMs are generated at the axils of leaf primordia and give rise to branches and flowers. Therefore, the formation of AMs is a critical step in the construction of plant architecture. Here, we characterized the rice (Oryza sativa) lax panicle2 (lax2) mutant, which has altered AM formation. LAX2 regulates the branching of the aboveground parts of a rice plant throughout plant development, except for the primary branch in the panicle. The lax2 mutant is similar to lax panicle1 (lax1) in that it lacks an AM in most of the lateral branching of the panicle and has a reduced number of AMs at the vegetative stage. The lax1 lax2 double mutant synergistically enhances the reduced-branching phenotype, indicating the presence of multiple pathways for branching. LAX2 encodes a nuclear protein that contains a plant-specific conserved domain and physically interacts with LAX1. We propose that LAX2 is a novel factor that acts together with LAX1 in rice to regulate the process of AM formation.
21964772	A method is demonstrated for analysis of vitamin D fortified dietary supplements that eliminates virtually all chemical pretreatment prior to analysis, which is referred to as a "dilute-and-shoot" method. Three mass spectrometers, in parallel, plus a UV detector, an evaporative light-scattering detector (ELSD), and a corona charged aerosol detector (CAD) were used to allow a comparison of six detectors simultaneously. Ultraviolet data were analyzed using internal standard, external standard, and response factor approaches. The contents of gelcaps that contained 2,000 IU (50 μg) vitamin D(3) in rice bran oil, diluted to 100 mL, were analyzed without the need for lengthy saponification and extraction. Vitamin D(3) was analyzed using UV detection, extracted ion chromatograms, selected ion monitoring (SIM) atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (APCI-MS), and two transitions of multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) APCI-MS. The internal standard, external standard, and response factor methods gave values of 0.5870 ± 0.0045, 0.5893 ± 0.0041, and 0.5889 ± 0.0045 μg/mL, respectively, by UV detection. The values obtained by MS were 0.6117 ± 0.0140, 0.6018 ± 0.0244, and 0.5848 ± 0.0146 μg/mL by SIM and two transitions of MRM, respectively. The triacylglycerols in the oils were analyzed using full-scan APCI-MS, electrospray ionization (ESI) MS, up to MS(4), an ELSD, and a CAD. The method proved to be very sensitive for vitamin D(3), as well as triacylglycerols (TAGs), allowing identification of intact TAGs containing fatty acids up to 28 carbons in length. LC-ESI-MS of glycerin polymers is also demonstrated.
21965541	Previous studies have shown that pairs of closely-linked Ac/Ds transposable elements can induce various chromosomal rearrangements in plant genomes. To study chromosomal rearrangements in rice, we isolated a line (OsRLG5-161) that contains two inversely-oriented Ds insertions in OsRLG5 (Oryza sativa Receptor like kinase Gene 5). Among approximately 300 plants regenerated from OsRLG5-161 heterozygous seeds, 107 contained rearrangements including deletions, duplications and inversions of various sizes. Most rearrangements were induced by previously identified alternative transposition mechanism. Furthermore, we also detected a new class of rearrangements that contain juxtaposed inversions and deletions on the same chromosome. We propose that these novel alleles were generated by a previously unreported type of alternative transposition reactions involving the 5' and 3' termini of two inversely-oriented Ds elements located on the same chromatid. Finally, 11% of rearrangements contained inversions resulting from homologous recombination between the two inverted Ds elements in OsRLG5-161. The high frequency inheritance and great variety of rearrangements obtained suggests that the rice regeneration system results in a burst of transposition activity and a relaxation of the controls which normally limit the transposition competence of individual Ds termini. Together, these results demonstrate a greatly enlarged potential of the Ac/Ds system for plant chromosome engineering.
21965557	The QlicRice database is designed to host publicly accessible, abiotic stress responsive quantitative trait loci (QTLs) in rice (Oryza sativa) and their corresponding sequenced gene loci. It provides a platform for the data mining of abiotic stress responsive QTLs, as well as browsing and annotating associated traits, their location on a sequenced genome, mapped expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and tissue and growth stage-specific expressions on the whole genome. Information on QTLs related to abiotic stresses and their corresponding loci from a genomic perspective has not yet been integrated on an accessible, user-friendly platform. QlicRice offers client-responsive architecture to retrieve meaningful biological information--integrated and named 'Qlic Search'--embedded in a query phrase autocomplete feature, coupled with multiple search options that include trait names, genes and QTL IDs. A comprehensive physical and genetic map and vital statistics have been provided in a graphical manner for deciphering the position of QTLs on different chromosomes. A convenient and intuitive user interface have been designed to help users retrieve associations to agronomically important QTLs on abiotic stress response in rice. Database URL: http://nabg.iasri.res.in:8080/qlic-rice/.
21966299	Estimates of Thai crude birth and death rates date from 1920 when the former was around 20 per thousand higher than the latter, implying natural increase of 2 percent per annum. Such disequilibrium cannot have been the norm over the long term historical past, when population growth must have been comparatively slow. This paper explores the bases for likely past relative equilibrium between Siamese birth and death rates, then seeks to explain the disequilibrium apparent by 1920. Classic demographic transition theory postulates initially high birth and death rates, this equilibrium eventually being broken by falling mortality. In Thailand, however, there is likely to have been both significant mortality decline and appreciable fertility increase after 1850, as the virtual elimination of indigenous warfare, rapid growth of the export rice economy and the demise of slavery and corvée labour created a new domestic environment. Characterized by more dispersed, often frontier, settlement, this environment was unprecedentedly sedate and settled, afforded ordinary households a previously unknown level of control over their resources of labour, and generated optimism about prospects for the next generation.
21966459	The phytohormone ethylene is a key signaling molecule that regulates a variety of developmental processes and stress responses in plants. Transcriptional modulation is a pivotal process controlling ethylene synthesis, which further triggers the expression of stress-related genes and plant adaptation to stresses; however, it is unclear how this process is transcriptionally modulated in rice. In the present research, we report the transcriptional regulation of a novel rice ethylene response factor (ERF) in ethylene synthesis and drought tolerance. Through analysis of transcriptional data, one of the drought-responsive ERF genes, OsDERF1, was identified for its activation in response to drought, ethylene and abscisic acid. Transgenic plants overexpressing OsDERF1 (OE) led to reduced tolerance to drought stress in rice at seedling stage, while knockdown of OsDERF1 (RI) expression conferred enhanced tolerance at seedling and tillering stages. This regulation was supported by negative modulation in osmotic adjustment response. To elucidate the molecular basis of drought tolerance, we identified the target genes of OsDERF1 using the Affymetrix GeneChip, including the activation of cluster stress-related negative regulators such as ERF repressors. Biochemical and molecular approaches showed that OsDERF1 at least directly interacted with the GCC box in the promoters of ERF repressors OsERF3 and OsAP2-39. Further investigations showed that OE seedlings had reduced expression (while RI lines showed enhanced expression) of ethylene synthesis genes, thereby resulting in changes in ethylene production. Moreover, overexpression of OsERF3/OsAP2-39 suppressed ethylene synthesis. In addition, application of ACC recovered the drought-sensitive phenotype in the lines overexpressing OsERF3, showing that ethylene production contributed to drought response in rice. Thus our data reveal that a novel ERF transcriptional cascade modulates drought response through controlling the ethylene synthesis, deepening our understanding of the regulation of ERF proteins in ethylene related drought response.
21966570	Rice (Oryza sativa) contains five copies of the non-symbiotic hemoglobin (hb) gene, namely hb1 to hb5. Previous analysis by RT-PCR revealed that rice hb1 expresses in roots and leaves and hb2 expresses in leaves. However, it is not known whether or not hb1 and hb2 express in rice embryonic organs. Here, we report the expression of hb1 and hb2 genes in rice embryonic organs using RT-PCR and specific oligos for Hb1 and Hb2. Our results indicate that hb1 and hb2 genes express in embryonic organs in rice growing under normal conditions. Specifically, hb1 expresses in rice embryos and seminal roots, and hb2 expresses in embryos, coleoptiles and seminal roots. These observations suggest that Hb1 and Hb2 coexist and function in rice embryonic organs.
21966924	Rice field soils contain a thermophilic microbial community. Incubation of Italian rice field soil at 50°C resulted in transient accumulation of acetate, but the microorganisms responsible for methane production from acetate are unknown. Without addition of exogenous acetate, the δ(13)C of CH(4) and CO(2) indicated that CH(4) was exclusively produced by hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. When exogenous acetate was added, acetoclastic methanogenesis apparently also operated. Nevertheless, addition of [2-(13)C]acetate (99% (13)C) resulted in the production not only of (13)C-labelled CH(4) but also of CO(2), which contained up to 27% (13)C, demonstrating that the methyl group of acetate was also oxidized. Part of the (13)C-labelled acetate was also converted to propionate which contained up to 14% (13)C. The microorganisms capable of assimilating acetate at 50°C were targeted by stable isotope probing (SIP) of ribosomal RNA and rRNA genes using [U-(13)C] acetate. Using quantitative PCR, (13)C-labelled bacterial ribosomal RNA and DNA was detected after 21 and 32 days of incubation with [U-(13)C]acetate respectively. In the heavy fractions of the (13)C treatment, terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs) of 140, 120 and 171 bp length predominated. Cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA showed that these T-RFs were affiliated with the bacterial genera Thermacetogenium and Symbiobacterium and with members of the Thermoanaerobacteriaceae. Similar experiments targeting archaeal RNA and DNA showed that Methanocellales were the dominant methanogens being consistent with the operation of syntrophic bacterial acetate oxidation coupled to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. After 17 days, however, Methanosarcinacea increasingly contributed to the synthesis of rRNA from [U-(13)C]acetate indicating that acetoclastic methanogens were also active in methanogenic Italian rice field soil under thermal conditions.
21967780	A transgenic rice line (TRS) with high amylose level has been developed by antisense RNA inhibition of starch branching enzymes. Compositional analysis of TRS demonstrated that the content of resistant starch (RS) was significantly higher compared to conventional non-transgenic rice. High level of RS is an important raw material in food industry and has various physiological effects for human health. In order to provide the reliable theory basis for field release of TRS rice, we evaluated the potential health effects of long-term consumption of the TRS. The 90-day toxicology feeding experiment was conducted in Sprague-Dawley rats fed with diets containing 70% of either TRS rice flour, its near-isogenic rice flour or the control diet. The clinical performance variables (body weight, body weight gain and food consumption) were measured and pathological responses (hematological parameters and serum chemistry at the midterm and the completion of the experiment, urinalysis profile and serum sex hormone response at the completion of the experiment) were performed. Besides, clinical signs, relative organ weights and microscopic observations were also compared between TRS group and its near-isogenic rice group. The combined data indicates that high-amylose TRS grain is as safe as the conventional non-transgenic rice for rat consumption.
21968786	The toxic myopathies are a clinically and pathologically diverse group of disorders that can be caused by a variety of therapeutic agents used in clinical practice, as well as various venoms and other biological toxins. The most important iatrogenic causes are the statin and fibrate cholesterol-lowering agents that can cause a severe necrotizing myopathy and acute rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria. The current update focuses on the mechanisms of statin myotoxicity and the importance of genetic predisposing factors for statin myopathy, as well as the recently described form of necrotizing autoimmune myopathy, which is associated with antibodies to the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase enzyme and is responsive to aggressive immunotherapy. Mitochondrial myopathies associated with antiretroviral agents and the pyrimidine nucleoside analogue clevudine, and recent reports of myopathies caused by ingestion of red yeast rice and toxic species of mushrooms are also discussed.
21968914	In recent years, germinated brown rice as a functional food has received great attention with its improved sensory and nutritional properties. Particularly of interest are the high levels of γ-amino butyric acid (GABA) which can be obtained during germination. However, more studies are needed to fully understand the effect of germination on the physicochemical properties of brown rice. Germination altered the chemical composition of brown rice, resulting in an increase in reducing sugar and ash content, and a reduction in amylose. Solubility, paste viscosity, transition temperatures (T(o) , T(p) and T(c)) and percentage of retrogradation (%Retrogradation) were decreased, while swelling power and turbidity were significantly increased. Scanning electron micrographs indicated that starch granules from germinated brown rice became smaller and less homogeneous. Moreover, germination shortened the chain length of amylopectin and amylose molecules. This investigation provides information on changes in the characteristics of rice flour and rice starch during germination, leading to a better understanding on the chemistry of brown rice germination.
21969384	Yellow Stripe-Like (YSL) proteins belong to the oligopeptide transporter family and have been implicated in metal transport and homeostasis in different plant species. Here, we functionally characterized a rice (Oryza sativa) YSL member, OsYSL6. Knockout of OsYSL6 resulted in decreased growth of both roots and shoots only in the high-manganese (Mn) condition. There was no difference in the concentration of total Mn and other essential metals between the wild-type rice and the knockout line, but the knockout line showed a higher Mn concentration in the leaf apoplastic solution and a lower Mn concentration in the symplastic solution than wild-type rice. OsYSL6 was constitutively expressed in both the shoots and roots, and the expression level was not affected by either deficiency or toxicity of various metals. Furthermore, the expression level increased with leaf age. Analysis with OsYSL6 promoter-green fluorescent protein transgenic rice revealed that OsYSL6 was expressed in all cells of both the roots and shoots. Heterogolous expression of OsYSL6 in yeast showed transport activity for the Mn-nicotianamine complex but not for the Mn-mugineic acid complex. Taken together, our results suggest that OsYSL6 is a Mn-nicotianamine transporter that is required for the detoxification of excess Mn in rice.
21969746	A multiple unit oral floating drug delivery system of famotidine was developed to prolong gastric residence time, target stomach mucosa and increase drug bioavailability. Drug and polymer compatibility was studied by subjecting physical mixtures of drug and polymers to differential scanning calorimetry. Cod liver oil entrapped calcium alginate beads containing famotidine, capable of floating in the gastric condition were formulated and evaluated. The gel beads were prepared by emulsion gelation method by employing sodium alginate alone and mixture of sodium alginate and hydrophilic copolymers such as carbopol 934P and hydroxypropylmethylcellulose K15M grade in three different ratios. The effect of selected factors, such as percentage of oil and amount of copolymers on floating properties was investigated. The beads were evaluated for percent drug loading, drug entrapment efficiency, buoyancy and in vitro drug release. The in vitro drug release study of the beads was carried out in simulated gastric media employing a modified Rosette-Rice test apparatus. Wherein, the apparatus was further modified by incorporating a water jacket to the apparatus to circulate hot water to maintain 37±2° for throughout the release study. All the oil entrapped calcium alginate beads floated if a sufficient amount of oil was used. Beads formulated employing sodium alginate alone could not sustain the drug release up to 8 h, whereas beads formulated with mixture of sodium alginate and copolymers demonstrated sustained release of famotidine up to 8 h. The results suggested that cod liver oil entrapped calcium alginate beads were promising as a carrier for intragastric floating drug delivery of famotidine.
21970567	Broadening of the genetic base for identification and transfer of genes for resistance to insect pests and diseases from wild relatives of rice is an important strategy in resistance breeding programs across the world. An accession of Oryza nivara, International Rice Germplasm Collection (IRGC) accession number 105710, was identified to exhibit high level and broad-spectrum resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. In order to study the genetics of resistance and to tag and map the resistance gene or genes present in IRGC 105710, it was crossed with the bacterial blight (BB)-susceptible varieties 'TN1' and 'Samba Mahsuri' (SM) and then backcrossed to generate backcross mapping populations. Analysis of these populations and their progeny testing revealed that a single dominant gene controls resistance in IRGC 105710. The BC(1)F(2) population derived from the cross IRGC 105710/TN1//TN1 was screened with a set of 72 polymorphic simple-sequence repeat (SSR) markers distributed across the rice genome and the resistance gene was coarse mapped on chromosome 7 between the SSR markers RM5711 and RM6728 at a genetic distance of 17.0 and 19.3 centimorgans (cM), respectively. After analysis involving 49 SSR markers located between the genomic interval spanned by RM5711 and RM6728, and BC(2)F(2) population consisting of 2,011 individuals derived from the cross IRGC 105710/TN1//TN1, the gene was fine mapped between two SSR markers (RMWR7.1 and RMWR7.6) located at a genetic distance of 0.9 and 1.2 cM, respectively, from the gene and flanking it. The linkage distances were validated in a BC(1)F(2) mapping population derived from the cross IRGC 105710/SM//2 × SM. The BB resistance gene present in the O. nivara accession was identified to be novel based on its unique map location on chromosome 7 and wider spectrum of BB resistance; this gene has been named Xa33. The genomic region between the two closely flanking SSR markers was in silico analyzed for putatively expressed candidate genes. In total, eight genes were identified in the region and a putative gene encoding serinethreonine kinase appears to be a candidate for the Xa33 gene.
21970613	For millennia, the southern part of the Mesopotamia has been a wetland region generated by the Tigris and Euphrates rivers before flowing into the Gulf. This area has been occupied by human communities since ancient times and the present-day inhabitants, the Marsh Arabs, are considered the population with the strongest link to ancient Sumerians. Popular tradition, however, considers the Marsh Arabs as a foreign group, of unknown origin, which arrived in the marshlands when the rearing of water buffalo was introduced to the region. To shed some light on the paternal and maternal origin of this population, Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation was surveyed in 143 Marsh Arabs and in a large sample of Iraqi controls. Analyses of the haplogroups and sub-haplogroups observed in the Marsh Arabs revealed a prevalent autochthonous Middle Eastern component for both male and female gene pools, with weak South-West Asian and African contributions, more evident in mtDNA. A higher male than female homogeneity is characteristic of the Marsh Arab gene pool, likely due to a strong male genetic drift determined by socio-cultural factors (patrilocality, polygamy, unequal male and female migration rates). Evidence of genetic stratification ascribable to the Sumerian development was provided by the Y-chromosome data where the J1-Page08 branch reveals a local expansion, almost contemporary with the Sumerian City State period that characterized Southern Mesopotamia. On the other hand, a more ancient background shared with Northern Mesopotamia is revealed by the less represented Y-chromosome lineage J1-M267*. Overall our results indicate that the introduction of water buffalo breeding and rice farming, most likely from the Indian sub-continent, only marginally affected the gene pool of autochthonous people of the region. Furthermore, a prevalent Middle Eastern ancestry of the modern population of the marshes of southern Iraq implies that if the Marsh Arabs are descendants of the ancient Sumerians, also the Sumerians were most likely autochthonous and not of Indian or South Asian ancestry.
21970692	Roots are the primary site of interaction between plants and microorganisms. To meet food demands in changing climates, improved yields and stress resistance are increasingly important, stimulating efforts to identify factors that affect plant productivity. The role of bacterial endophytes that reside inside plants remains largely unexplored, because analysis of their specific functions is impeded by difficulties in cultivating most prokaryotes. Here, we present the first metagenomic approach to analyze an endophytic bacterial community resident inside roots of rice, one of the most important staple foods. Metagenome sequences were obtained from endophyte cells extracted from roots of field-grown plants. Putative functions were deduced from protein domains or similarity analyses of protein-encoding gene fragments, and allowed insights into the capacities of endophyte cells. This allowed us to predict traits and metabolic processes important for the endophytic lifestyle, suggesting that the endorhizosphere is an exclusive microhabitat requiring numerous adaptations. Prominent features included flagella, plant-polymer-degrading enzymes, protein secretion systems, iron acquisition and storage, quorum sensing, and detoxification of reactive oxygen species. Surprisingly, endophytes might be involved in the entire nitrogen cycle, as protein domains involved in N(2)-fixation, denitrification, and nitrification were detected and selected genes expressed. Our data suggest a high potential of the endophyte community for plant-growth promotion, improvement of plant stress resistance, biocontrol against pathogens, and bioremediation, regardless of their culturability.
21970941	The prevalence of iron deficiency (ID) and iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is high in India and appear unchanging over decades. To understand the persistence of these disorders, it is critical to measure iron (Fe) absorption from cereal-based Indian meals, its modulation by ID and the time-course of the response of hemoglobin (Hb) to Fe intake. SUBJESTS/METHODS: Fe absorption from rice-based meals was measured by the erythrocyte incorporation of the stable isotope label at 14 days in IDA (N=15) and Fe replete (IR) women (N=15). Hb level was used as surrogate for Fe status, and a response curve for Fe absorption versus the Hb level for a rice-based meal was constructed from measured data. This relationship was used as input for a mathematical model that examined the Hb response to different Fe intakes in normal and anemic women. The mean fractional Fe absorption from a rice-based meal in IR and IDA women was 2.7% and 8.3%, respectively. The model predicted that Fe intakes between 20 and 55 mg/day in low-bioavailability diets would result in stable, non-anemic levels of Hb in women over a 1-year period. This mathematical model suggests that with a Fe intake of 20-30 mg/day and a dietary bioavailability of 3-5%, Hb concentration would hover around 12 g/dl with a variability of 0.5 g/dl in pre-menopausal adult women.
21971181	Magnaporthe oryzae is a filamentous ascomycete that continuously threatens global rice production. The infection cycle of this pathogen commences with the attachment of conidia to rice plants, followed by the formation and maturation of a specialized infection structure-the appressorium. Melanized appressoria generate immense turgor pressure, which allows the fungus to break through the plant cuticle and cell wall by means of a penetration peg. These stages occur within the first twenty-four hours after which time the penetration peg gives rise to and subsequent primary and secondary infection hyphae. Upon infection, the plant recognizes the pathogen, triggering a series of defense responses and signaling events including the secretion of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In a recent paper, we showed that barley plants generate ROS and cell wall appositions (CWAs) around infection sites and that a fungal gene we termed MoHYR1 is necessary for ameliorating these defense reactions and ensuring successful infection and colonization. When this gene is deleted from the M. oryzae genome, the plant oxidative responses are stronger and disease is reduced.
21971267	A 76-year-old woman farmer with a 20-year history of oral steroid treatment for polyarteritis nodosa, noted a rash consisting of numerous small papules on the dorsum of her right hand in February 2007. The rash worsened over time, and in April 2008 red papules and pustules as big as grains of rice fused to form plaques extending up her arm from the dorsum of the right hand to the extensor surface of the forearm. The plaques were accompanied by erosions, ulcers, and crusts. Skin biopsy specimens from the dorsum of the right hand showed a dense cell infiltration in the upper to middle layer of the dermis, with numerous morula-like microorganisms within the cells. Cultures of the specimens on Sabouraud dextrose agar produced creamy, yeast-like colonies. The colonies produced sporangia, with cells of varying sizes arranged in the pattern of a spoked-wheel. The microorganisms were identified as Prototheca wickerhamii on the basis of their morphological characteristics, sugar assimilation patterns, and molecular biological techniques. Treatment with amphotericin B was planned, but the patient died from respiratory failure before initiating treatment. We review the characteristics of the cutaneous protothecosis cases reported to date in Japan.
21971746	Molecular dissection and a deeper analysis of the heat stress response mechanism in wheat have been poorly understood so far. This study delves into the molecular basis of action of TaMIPS, a heat stress-inducible enzyme that was identified through PCR-select subtraction technology, which is named here as TaMIPS2. MIPS (L-Myo-inositol-phosphate synthase) is important for the normal growth and development in plants. Expression profiling showed that TaMIPS2 is expressed during different developing seed stages upon heat stress. Also, the transcript levels increase in unfertilized ovaries and significant amounts are present during the recovery period providing evidence that MIPS is crucial for its role in heat stress recovery and flower development. Alternatively spliced forms from rice and Arabidopsis were also identified and their expression analysis revealed that apart from heat stress, some of the spliced variants were also inducible by drought, NaCl, Cold, ABA, BR, SA and mannitol. In silico promoter analysis revealed various cis-elements that could contribute for the differential regulation of MIPS in different plant systems. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that MIPS are highly conserved among monocots and dicots and TaMIPS2 grouped specifically with monocots. Comparative analyses was undertaken by different experimental approaches, i.e., semi-quantitative RT-PCR, quantitative RT-PCR, Genevestigator as a reference expression tool and motif analysis to predict the possible function of TaMIPS2 in regulating the different aspects of plant development under abiotic stress in wheat.
21971973	Differences in susceptibility of five cladocerans to the neonicotinoid imidacloprid and the phenyl-pyrazole fipronil, which have been dominantly used in rice fields of Japan in recent years, were examined based on short-term (48-h), semi-static acute immobilization exposure tests. Additionally, we compared the species sensitivity distribution (SSD) patterns of both insecticides between two sets of species: the five tested cladocerans and all other aquatic organisms tested so far, using data from the ECOTOX database of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). The sensitivity of the test species to either imidacloprid or fipronil was consistent, spanning similar orders of magnitude (100 times). At the genus level, sensitivities to both insecticides were in the following descending order: Ceriodaphnia > Moina > Daphnia. A positive relationship was found between body lengths of each species and the acute toxicity (EC(50)) of the insecticides, in particular fipronil. Differences in SSD patterns of imidacloprid were found between the species groups compared, indicating that test cladocerans are much less susceptible than other aquatic species including amphibians, crustaceans, fish, insects, mollusks and worms. However, the SSD patterns for fipronil indicate no difference in sensitivity between cladocerans tested and other aquatic organisms despite the greater exposure, which overestimates the results, of our semi-static tests. From these results, Ceriodaphnia sp. should be considered as more sensitive bioindicators (instead of the standard Daphnia magna) for ecotoxicological assessments of aquatic ecosystems. In addition, we propose that ecotoxicity data associated with differences in susceptibility among species should be investigated whenever pesticides have different physicochemical properties and mode of action.
21972902	Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) is known to be a key player in apoptosis in animals. The components and pathways regulating H(2)O(2)-induced programmed cell death in plants, however, remain largely unknown. In the present study, rice transgenic lines overexpressing Bcl-2, a human apoptotic suppressor, were obtained. These transgenic lines showed increased tolerance to high levels of H(2)O(2), resulting in increased seed germination rates, root elongation, root tip cell viability and chlorophyll retention compared to control lines. In the control lines, treatment with H(2)O(2) resulted in DNA laddering and a clear terminal transferase dUTP nick end labeling signal, which are the hallmarks of programmed cell death. However, this effect was not detected in the Bcl-2-overexpressing transgenic lines. Further investigations indicated that Bcl-2 suppressed H(2)O(2)-induced programmed cell death but did not inhibit stress-elicited reactive oxygen species production in rice. RT-PCR revealed that the expression of the two vacuolar processing enzyme genes (i.e. OsVPE2 and OsVPE3) was dramatically induced by H(2)O(2) in the wild-type line but not in the Bcl-2-overexpressing line. Moreover, treatment with H(2)O(2) resulted in the disruption of the vacuolar membrane in the wild-type line. The expression levels of OsVPE1 and OsVPE4 did not significantly differ between the wild-type line and the transgenic line that was treated or untreated with H(2)O(2). The similar roles of Bcl-2 and OsVPEs during endogenous reactive oxygen species-triggered programmed cell death were also confirmed by NaCl stress in rice. To our knowledge, the present study is the first to demonsatrate that Bcl-2 overexpression inhibits H(2)O(2)-induced programmed cell death and enhances H(2)O(2) tolerance. We propose that Bcl-2 overexpression in rice suppresses the transcriptional activation of OsVPE2 and OsVPE3, but not of OsVPE1 or OsVPE4.
21973021	Flowering plants, angiosperms, can be divided into two major clades, monocots and dicots, and while differences in amino acid composition in different species from the two clades have been reported, a systematic analysis of amino acid content and distribution remains outstanding. Here, we show that monocot and dicot proteins have developed distinct amino acid content. In Arabidopsis thaliana and poplar, as in the ancestral moss Physcomitrella patens, the average mass per amino acid appears to be independent of protein length, while in the monocots rice, maize and sorghum, shorter proteins tend to be made of lighter amino acids. An examination of the elemental content of these proteomes reveals that the difference between monocot and dicot proteins can be largely attributed to their different carbon signatures. In monocots, the shorter proteins, which comprise the majority of all proteins, are made of amino acids with less carbon, while the nitrogen content is unchanged in both monocots and dicots. We hypothesise that this signature could be the result of carbon use and energy optimisation in fast-growing annual Poaceae (grasses).
21973088	• Auxin has an important role in maintaining optimal root system architecture (RSA) that can cope with growth reductions of crops caused by water or nutrient shortages. However, the mechanism of controlling RSA remains largely unclear. Here, we found a limiting factor of RSA--OsARF12--an auxin response factor whose knockout led to decreased primary root length in rice (Oryza sativa). • OsARF12 as a transcription activator can facilitate the expression of the auxin response element DR5::GFP, and OsARF12 was inhibited by osa-miRNA167d by transient expression in tobacco and rice callus. • The root elongation zones of osarf12 and osarf12/25, which had lower auxin concentrations, were distinctly shorter than for the wild-type, possibly as a result of decreased expression of auxin synthesis genes OsYUCCAs and auxin efflux carriers OsPINs and OsPGPs. The knockout of OsARF12 also altered the abundance of mitochondrial iron-regulated (OsMIR), iron (Fe)-regulated transporter1 (OsIRT1) and short postembryonic root1 (OsSPR1) in roots of rice, and resulted in lower Fe content. • The data provide evidence for the biological function of OsARF12, which is implicated in regulating root elongation. Our investigation contributes a novel insight for uncovering regulation of RSA and the relationship between auxin response and Fe acquisition.
21973320	Higher plants have evolved multiple proteins in the RNase III family to produce and regulate different classes of small RNAs with specialized molecular functions. In rice (Oryza sativa), numerous genomic clusters are targeted by one of two microRNAs (miRNAs), miR2118 and miR2275, to produce secondary small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) of either 21 or 24 nucleotides in a phased manner. The biogenesis requirements or the functions of the phased small RNAs are completely unknown. Here we examine the rice Dicer-Like (DCL) family, including OsDCL1, -3a, -3b and -4. By deep sequencing of small RNAs from different tissues of the wild type and osdcl4-1, we revealed that the processing of 21-nucleotide siRNAs, including trans-acting siRNAs (tasiRNA) and over 1000 phased small RNA loci, was largely dependent on OsDCL4. Surprisingly, the processing of 24-nucleotide phased small RNA requires the DCL3 homolog OsDCL3b rather than OsDCL3a, suggesting functional divergence within DCL3 family. RNA ligase-mediated 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends and parallel analysis of RNA ends (PARE)/degradome analysis confirmed that most of the 21- and 24-nucleotide phased small RNA clusters were initiated from the target sites of miR2118 and miR2275, respectively. Furthermore, the accumulation of the two triggering miRNAs requires OsDCL1 activity. Finally, we show that phased small RNAs are preferentially produced in the male reproductive organs and are likely to be conserved in monocots. Our results revealed significant roles of OsDCL4, OsDCL3b and OsDCL1 in the 21- and 24-nucleotide phased small RNA biogenesis pathway in rice.
21976713	Plant roots move through the soil by elongation. This is vital to their ability to anchor the plant and acquire water and minerals from the soil. In order to identify new genes involved in root elongation in rice, we screened an ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized rice library, and isolated a short root mutant, Osglu3-1. The map-based cloning results showed that the mutant was due to a point mutation in OsGLU3, which encodes a putative membrane-bound endo-1,4-β-glucanase. Osglu3-1 displayed less crystalline cellulose content in its root cell wall, shorter root cell length, and a slightly smaller root meristem as visualized by restricted expression of OsCYCB1,1:GUS. Exogenous application of glucose can suppress both the lower root cell wall cellulose content and short root phenotypes of Osglu3-1. Consistently, OsGLU3 is ubiquitously expressed in various tissues with strong expression in root tip, lateral root, and crown root primodia. The fully functional OsGLU3-GFP was detected in plasma membrane, and FM4-64-labeled compartments in the root meristem and elongation zones. We also found that phosphate starvation, an environmental stress, altered cell wall cellulose content to modulate root elongation in a OsGLU3-dependant way.
21977025	Flavonoid pigments are known to accumulate in red grains and coleoptiles of wheat and are synthesized through the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) is a key enzyme at a diverging point of the flavonoid pathway leading to production of different pigments: phlobaphene, proanthocyanidin, and anthocyanin. We isolated three F3H genes from wheat and examined a relationship between their expression and tissue pigmentation. Three F3Hs are located on the telomeric region of the long arm of chromosomes 2A, 2B, and 2D, respectively, designated as F3H-A1, F3H-B1, and F3H-D1. The telomeric regions of the long arms of the chromosomes of homoeologous group 2 of wheat showed a syntenic relationship to the telomeric region of the long arm of rice chromosome 4, on which rice F3H gene was also located. All three genes were highly activated in the red grains and coleoptiles and appeared to be controlled by flavonoid regulators in each tissue.
21978193	A new method for the determination of clomazone, fipronil, tebuconazole, propiconazole, and azoxystrobin in samples of rice paddy soil is presented. The extraction of the pesticides from soil samples was performed by using a modified quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe (QuEChERS) method. Some extraction conditions such as salt addition, sample acidification, use of buffer, and cleanup step were evaluated. The optimized method dealt with a single extraction of the compounds under study with acidified acetonitrile, followed by the addition of MgSO(4) and NaCl prior to the final determination by liquid chromatography-atmospheric chemical pressure ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. Validation studies were carried out in soil samples. Recoveries of the spiked samples ranged between 70.3 and 120% with relative standard deviation lower than 18.2%. The limits of quantification were between 10 and 50 μg kg(-1). The method was applied to the analysis of real samples of soils where rice is cultivated.
21978282	Thai jasmine rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. KDML105) is highly valued due to its subtle aroma, robust seed characteristics and high nutritional quality. Low-energy ion-beam bombardment was chosen to improve the quality of jasmine rice by mutation induction. One mutated variety, named BKOS, was found to exhibit a deep purple colour due to an increased accumulation of anthocyanin. The total phenolic content and antioxidant activities of cooked and uncooked rice extracts were compared with KDML105, BKOS and other rice mutants created by a low-energy ion beam. The BKOS extracts showed the highest total phenol content (0.140 and 0.096 mg of gallic acid equivalent (GAE) g(-1) dry extract from uncooked and cooked rice, respectively). The BKOS extracts also had improved antioxidant activities, determined using three standard methods: 2,2'-diphenyl-1-picrylhdrazyl (DPPH) free radical scavenging, ABTS radical cation (ABTS•(+)) decolourisation and ferric-reducing antioxidant power assays. BKOS extracts showed 2-2.5-fold increased levels for each method. Interestingly, there was no significant difference between the antioxidant activities of the cooked and uncooked BKOS rice extracts. The increased quantity of antioxidants in this anthocyanin-based natural product could allow antioxidants to be consumed by a wider population than what is currently possible.
21978493	Phosphorus (P) is a structural component of nucleic acids and phospholipids and plays important roles in plant growth and development. P accumulation was significantly reduced (about 35%) in rice leaves from plants grown under low (32 μM) P compared to 320 μM P grown plants. Genome response to low P was examined using the rice 60K oligonucleotide DNA microarrays. At the threshold significance of |log₂| fold>2.0, 21,033 genes (about 33.7% of all genes on the microarray) were affected by P deficiency. Among all genes on the microarray, 4271 genes were sorted into 51 metabolic pathways. Low P affected 1494 (35.0%) genes and the largest category of genes was related to sucrose degradation to ethanol and lactate pathway. To survey the role of P in rice, 25 pathways were selected based on number of affected genes. Among these pathways, cytosolic glycolysis contained the least number of upregulated but most down-regulated genes. Low P decreased glucose, pyruvate and chlorophyll, and genes related to carbon metabolism and chlorophyllide a biosynthesis. However, sucrose and starch levels increased. These results indicate that P nutrition affects diverse metabolic pathways mostly related to glucose, pyruvate, sucrose, starch, and chlorophyll a.
21978604	Catalase in plants is a heme-coordinated tetrameric protein that primarily disproportionates hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen. It plays an important role in maintaining cellular concentration of hydrogen peroxide to a level, necessary for all aspects of normal plant growth and development. Except for its recombinant expression in transgenic plants and insect cell line, the protein is yet to be synthesized in its bio-active form in prokaryotic expression system. Attempts made in past for recombinant expression of plant catalase in Escherichia coli consistently resulted in formation of insoluble and inactive aggregates of inclusion body. Here we have shown the specific requirement of a thioredoxin fusion partner, the involvement of trigger factor protein and the low temperature treatment during induction period for synthesis of completely solubilized rice plant catalase-A in recombinant E. coli. Furthermore, the bacteria required the supplementation of δ-aminolevulinic acid to produce bio-active recombinant rice catalase-A. The molecular and biochemical properties of the purified recombinant protein showed the characteristic features of a typical mono-functional plant catalase. These results attest to the usefulness of the present protocol for production of plant catalase using E. coli as heterologous expression system.
21979082	Catalase is the major H(2)O(2)-scavenging enzyme in all aerobic organisms. From the cDNA sequences of three rice (Oryza sativa L.) genes that encode for predicted catalases (OsCatA, OsCatB, and OsCatC), complete ORFs were subcloned into pET21a and expressed as (His)(6)-tagged proteins in Escherichia coli. The recombinant (His)(6)-polypeptides were enriched to apparent homogeneity and characterized. With H(2)O(2) as substrate, the highest catalase k(cat) value (20±1.71×10(-3) min(-1)) was found in recombinant OsCatB. The optimum temperatures for catalase activity were 30 °C for OsCatA and OsCatC and 25 °C for OsCatB, while the pH optima were 8.0, 7.5, and 7.0 for OsCatA, OsCatB, and OsCatC respectively. All the catalases were inhibited by sodium azide, β-mercaptoethanol, and potassium cyanide, but only weakly by 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole. The various catalases exhibited different catalase activities in the presence of different salts at different concentrations, OsCatC showing higher salt inhibitory effects than the two other OsCats.
21979138	Carbaryl is used in Indian agriculture for control of rice field pests and it is next to Benzene hexachloride in pesticide consumption. In present study, carbaryl (0, 10, 20, 30 and 40 mg/L) induced toxic effects were observed after 21 days exposure on a non target rice field biofertilizer Calothrix brevissima with special reference to oxidative stress, antioxidant enzymes and osmolytes. At 40 mg/L carbaryl the decrease in carotenoid, chlorophyll, phycobilin and protein were 63%, 43%, 40% and 40% respectively in comparison to control. Total carbohydrate, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, catalase and osmolytes showed enhancement at all the treated concentration. Increased amount of MDA (46% at 40 mg/L) indicated free radical mediated deleterious effect of carbaryl. Enhancement of SOD, APX, CAT and osmolytes in presence of carbaryl indicated their involvement in free radical scavenging. SOD, CAT and APX showed maximum activities (79%, 64% and 39% respectively) at 40 mg/L carbaryl. The order of enhancement in osmolytes was glycine-betaine (66%) > proline (54%) > sucrose (50%) at 40 mg/L which might be another adaptive defense strategy of the cyanobacterium against the pesticide.
21979490	Resistant starch type 3 (RS3) is retrograded starch which is not digested by human starch degrading enzyme, and will thus undergo bacterial degradation in the colon. The main fermentation products are the Short Chain Fatty Acid (SCFA): acetate, propionate and butyrate. SCFA has significant benefit impact on the metabolism of the host. The objectives of this research were to study the SCFA profile produced by colonic butyrate producing bacteria grown in medium containing RS3. RS3 was made from sago or rice starch treated with amylase, pullulanase and the combination of amylase and pullulanase. Fermentation study was performed by using Clostridium butyricum BCC B2571 or Eubacterium rectale DSM 17629, which has been identified as capable of degradation of starch residue and also regarded as beneficial bacteria. Experimental result revealed that enzyme hydrolysis of retrograded sago or rice starch was beneficial to RS formation. RS3 derived from sago contained higher RS (31-38%) than those derived from rice starch (21-26%). This study indicated that C. butyricum BCC B2571 produced acetate, propionate and butyrate at molar ratio of 1.8 : 1 : 1, when the medium was supplemented with RSSA at concentration 1%. In the medium containing similar substrate, E. rectale DSM 17629 produced acetate, propionate and butyrate at molar ratio of 1.7 : 1 : 1.2. High levels of acetate, propionate and butyrate at molar ratio of 1.8 : 1 : 1.1 was also produced by E. rectale DSM 17629 in medium supplemented with RSSP at concentration 1%. The results showed that both bacteria responded differently to the RS3 supplementation. Such result provided insight into the possibility of designing RS3 as prebiotic with featured regarding SCFA released in the human colon with potential health implication.
21980117	Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a re-emerging wheat disease that causes extensive damage through direct losses in yield and quality due to the presence of damaged Fusarium kernels and their associated mycotoxins such as the trichothecene deoxynivalenol (DON). Biological control, including the treatment of crop residues with antagonists, in order to reduce pathogen inoculum of FHB, holds considerable promise. Ten Trichoderma isolates, previously selected for their ability to grow in the presence of DON, were preliminarily investigated as potential antagonists against Fusarium culmorum and F. graminearum mycotoxigenic strains in plate confrontation assays. The three Trichoderma isolates showing antibiosis and mycoparasitism were evaluated for their capacity to inhibit DON production by F. graminearum and F. culmorum on two natural substrates. The expression of some chitinase-encoding genes by the two best resulting Trichoderma strains, during interaction with F. culmorum and F. graminearum, was monitored. All investigated genes from chitinase subgroups A, B and the new subgroup C responded to mycoparasitic conditions and were upregulated before contact and/or when in contact with the host. T. gamsii 6085, the best antagonist, was finally used in a competition test against F. culmorum and F. graminearum on natural substrates, using a qPCR approach to evaluate its effect on the pathogen's growth and DON production in haulms and rice. This test confirmed the ability of T. gamsii 6085 to antagonize the pathogens on rice. On wheat haulms, an extreme oligotrophic environment, T. gamsii 6085 seemed to develop very poorly and the growth of both the pathogens was unaffected by the presence of the antagonist.
21980143	Leaf senescence, a type of programmed cell death (PCD) characterized by chlorophyll degradation, is important to plant growth and crop productivity. It emerges that autophagy is involved in chloroplast degradation during leaf senescence. However, the molecular mechanism(s) involved in the process is not well understood. In this study, the genetic and physiological characteristics of the rice rls1 (rapid leaf senescence 1) mutant were identified. The rls1 mutant developed small, yellow-brown lesions resembling disease scattered over the whole surfaces of leaves that displayed earlier senescence than those of wild-type plants. The rapid loss of chlorophyll content during senescence was the main cause of accelerated leaf senescence in rls1. Microscopic observation indicated that PCD was misregulated, probably resulting in the accelerated degradation of chloroplasts in rls1 leaves. Map-based cloning of the RLS1 gene revealed that it encodes a previously uncharacterized NB (nucleotide-binding site)-containing protein with an ARM (armadillo) domain at the carboxyl terminus. Consistent with its involvement in leaf senescence, RLS1 was up-regulated during dark-induced leaf senescence and down-regulated by cytokinin. Intriguingly, constitutive expression of RLS1 also slightly accelerated leaf senescence with decreased chlorophyll content in transgenic rice plants. Our study identified a previously uncharacterized NB-ARM protein involved in PCD during plant growth and development, providing a unique tool for dissecting possible autophagy-mediated PCD during senescence in plants.
21981410	During early chloroplast differentiation, the regulation of the plastid genetic system including transcription and translation differs greatly from that in the mature chloroplast, suggesting the existence of a stage-dependent mechanism that regulates the chloroplast genetic system during this period. The virescent-1 (v(1)) mutant of rice (Oryza sativa) is temperature-conditional and develops chlorotic leaves under low-temperature conditions. We reported previously that leaf chlorosis in the v(1) mutant is caused by blockage of the activation of the chloroplast genetic system during early leaf development. Here we identify the V(1) gene, which encodes a chloroplast-localized protein NUS1. Accumulation of NUS1 specifically occurred in the pre-emerged immature leaves, and is enhanced by low-temperature treatment. The C-terminus of NUS1 shows structural similarity to the bacterial antitermination factor NusB, which is known to play roles in the regulation of ribosomal RNA transcription. The RNA-immunoprecipitation and gel mobility shift assays indicated that NUS1 binds to several regions of chloroplast RNA including the upstream leader region of the 16S rRNA precursor. In the leaves of the NUS1-deficient mutant, accumulation of chloroplast rRNA during early leaf development was impaired and chloroplast translation/transcription capacity was severely suppressed under low temperature. Our results suggest that NUS1 is involved in the regulation of chloroplast RNA metabolism and promotes the establishment of the plastid genetic system during early chloroplast development under cold stress conditions.
21982037	Studies on the association of maternal exposure to polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) with decreased birth weight in humans have produced conflicting results. In Japan in 1968, an accidental human exposure to rice oil contaminated with PCDDs, PCDFs, and PCBs, led to the development of Yusho disease. The Yusho cohort was used to evaluate the effect of maternal exposure to PCDDs, PCDFs, and PCBs on birth weight. Blood samples, obtained from 101 Yusho women (190 births) who gave birth after exposure, were analyzed for congeners of seven PCDDs, ten PCDFs, and four non-ortho PCBs. Total PCDD TEQ (adjusted beta=-161.9g; 95% CI, -265.3 to -58.6), total PCDF TEQ (adjusted beta=-105.9g; 95% CI, -179.5 to -32.2), and total non-ortho PCBs (adjusted beta=-178.4g; 95% CI, -318.3 to -38.5) levels were inversely associated with birth weight. Significant inverse associations with birth weight were also found for total PCDD TEQ, total PCDF TEQ, and total non-ortho PCB TEQ levels among male, but not female, infants. Significant inverse associations with birth weight were also found for nine congeners among all infants; the adjusted beta coefficients were largest for 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD and smallest for 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF. In the setting of exposure to high levels of dioxins, maternal blood levels of PCDDs, PCDFs and PCBs are associated with lower birth weight in Yusho patients. The association exhibited gender-specific differences, as male infants are more susceptible than females to growth restriction induced by in utero dioxin exposures.
21984008	Small heat shock proteins are involved in stress tolerance. We previously isolated and characterized a rice cDNA clone, Oshsp26, encoding a chloroplast-localized small heat shock protein that is expressed following oxidative or heat stress. In this study, we transferred this gene to tall fescue plants by an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system. The integration and expression of the transgene was confirmed by PCR, Southern, northern, and immunoblot analyzes. Compared to the control plants, the transgenic plants had significantly lower electrolyte leakage and accumulation of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances when exposed to heat or methyl viologen. The photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (PSII) (Fv/Fm) in the transgenic tall fescue plants was higher than that in the control plants during heat stress (42°C). These results suggest that the OsHSP26 protein plays an important role in the protection of PSII during heat and oxidative stress in vivo.
21984334	We constructed a physical map of O. sativa ssp. japonica cv. ZH11 and compared it and its random sample sequences with the Nipponbare RefSeq derived from the same subspecies. This comparison showed that the two japonica genomes were highly syntenic but revealed substantial differences in terms of structural variations, rates of substitutions and indels, and transposable element content. For example, contractions/expansions as large as 450 kb and repeat sequences that were present in high copy numbers only in ZH11 were detected. In tri-alignment regions using the indica variety 93-11 sequence as an outgroup, we found that: (1) the substitution rates of the two japonica-indica inter-subspecies comparison combinations were close but almost a magnitude higher than the substitution rate between the japonica rice varieties ZH11 and Nipponbare; (2) of the substitutions found between ZH11 and Nipponbare, 47.2% occurred in ZH11 and 52.6% in Nipponbare; (3) of the indels found between ZH11 and Nipponbare, the indels that occurred in ZH11 were 15.8 times of those in Nipponbare. Of the indels that occurred in ZH11, 75.67% were insertions and 24.33% deletions. Of the indels that occurred in Nipponbare, 48.23% were insertions and 51.77% were deletions. The ZH11 comparative map covered four Nipponbare physical gaps, detected assembly errors in the Nipponbare sequence, and was integrated with the FSTs of a large ZH11 T-DNA insertion mutant library. ZH11 BAC clones can be browsed, searched, and obtained at our website, http://GResource.hzau.edu.cn.
21984650	Photosynthesis is fundamental to biomass production, but sensitive to drought. To understand the genetics of leaf photosynthesis, especially under drought, upland rice cv. Haogelao, lowland rice cv. Shennong265, and 94 of their introgression lines (ILs) were studied at flowering and grain filling under drought and well-watered field conditions. Gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence measurements were conducted to evaluate eight photosynthetic traits. Since these traits are very sensitive to fluctuations in microclimate during measurements under field conditions, observations were adjusted for microclimatic differences through both a statistical covariant model and a physiological approach. Both approaches identified leaf-to-air vapour pressure difference as the variable influencing the traits most. Using the simple sequence repeat (SSR) linkage map for the IL population, 1-3 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected per trait-stage-treatment combination, which explained between 7.0% and 30.4% of the phenotypic variance of each trait. The clustered QTLs near marker RM410 (the interval from 57.3 cM to 68.4 cM on chromosome 9) were consistent over both development stages and both drought and well-watered conditions. This QTL consistency was verified by a greenhouse experiment under a controlled environment. The alleles from the upland rice at this interval had positive effects on net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, transpiration rate, quantum yield of photosystem II (PSII), and the maximum efficiency of light-adapted open PSII. However, the allele of another main QTL from upland rice was associated with increased drought sensitivity of photosynthesis. These results could potentially be used in breeding programmes through marker-assisted selection to improve drought tolerance and photosynthesis simultaneously.
21984651	The rice somaclonal mutant T3612 produces small grains with a floury endosperm, caused by the loose packing of starch granules. The positional cloning of the mutation revealed a deletion in a gene encoding a protein disulphide isomerase-like enzyme (PDIL1-1). In the wild type, PDIL1-1 was expressed throughout the plant, but most intensely in the developing grain. In T3612, its expression was abolished, resulting in a decrease in the activity of plastidial phosphorylase and pullulanase, and an increase in that of soluble starch synthase I and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase. The amylopectin in the T3612 endosperm showed an increase in chains with a degree of polymerization 8-13 compared with the wild type. The expression in the mutant's endosperm of certain endoplasmic reticulum stress-responsive genes was noticeably elevated. PDIL1-1 appears to play an important role in starch synthesis. Its absence is associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress in the endosperm, which is likely to underlie the formation of the floury endosperm in the T3612 mutant.
21984674	A novel methane-oxidizing bacterium, strain Fw12E-Y(T), was isolated from floodwater of a rice paddy field in Japan. Cells of strain Fw12E-Y(T) were Gram-negative, motile rods with a single polar flagellum and type I intracytoplasmic membrane arrangement. The strain grew only on methane or methanol as sole carbon and energy source. It was able to grow at 10-40 °C (optimum 30 °C), at pH 5.5-7.0 (optimum 6.5) and with 0-0.1% (w/w) NaCl (no growth above 0.5% NaCl). 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that strain Fw12E-Y(T) is related most closely to members of the genus Methylomonas, but at low levels of similarity (95.0-95.4%). Phylogenetic analysis of pmoA and mxaF genes indicated that the strain belongs to the genus Methylomonas (97 and 92 % deduced amino acid sequence identities to Methylomonas methanica S1(T), respectively). The DNA G+C content of strain Fw12E-Y(T) was 57.1 mol%. Chemotaxonomic data regarding the major quinone (MQ-8) and major fatty acids (C(16:1) and C(14:0)) also supported its affiliation to the genus Methylomonas. Based on phenotypic, genomic and phylogenetic data, strain Fw12E-Y(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Methylomonas, for which the name Methylomonas koyamae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is Fw12E-Y(T) (= JCM 16701(T) = NBRC 105905(T) = NCIMB 14606(T)).
21984727	The oxylipin pathway is of central importance for plant defensive responses. Yet, the first step of the pathway, the liberation of linolenic acid following induction, is poorly understood. Phospholipases D (PLDs) have been hypothesized to mediate this process, but data from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) regarding the role of PLDs in plant resistance have remained controversial. Here, we cloned two chloroplast-localized PLD genes from rice (Oryza sativa), OsPLDα4 and OsPLDα5, both of which were up-regulated in response to feeding by the rice striped stem borer (SSB) Chilo suppressalis, mechanical wounding, and treatment with jasmonic acid (JA). Antisense expression of OsPLDα4 and -α5 (as-pld), which resulted in a 50% reduction of the expression of the two genes, reduced elicited levels of linolenic acid, JA, green leaf volatiles, and ethylene and attenuated the SSB-induced expression of a mitogen-activated protein kinase (OsMPK3), a lipoxygenase (OsHI-LOX), a hydroperoxide lyase (OsHPL3), as well as a 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase (OsACS2). The impaired oxylipin and ethylene signaling in as-pld plants decreased the levels of herbivore-induced trypsin protease inhibitors and volatiles, improved the performance of SSB and the rice brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens, and reduced the attractiveness of plants to a larval parasitoid of SSB, Apanteles chilonis. The production of trypsin protease inhibitors in as-pld plants could be partially restored by JA, while the resistance to rice brown planthopper and SSB was restored by green leaf volatile application. Our results show that phospholipases function as important components of herbivore-induced direct and indirect defenses in rice.
21984784	KdgR has been reported to negatively regulate the genes involved in degradation and metabolization of pectic acid and other extracellular enzymes in soft-rotting Erwinia spp. through direct binding to their promoters. The possible involvement of a KdgR orthologue in virulence by affecting the expression of extracellular enzymes in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of rice blight disease, was examined by comparing virulence and regulation of extracellular enzymes between the wild type (WT) and a strain carrying a mutation in putative kdgR (ΔXoo0310 mutant). This putative kdgR mutant of X. oryzae pv. oryzae showed increased pathogenicity on rice without affecting the regulation of extracellular enzymes, such as amylase, cellulase, xylanase, and protease. However, the mutant carrying a mutation in an ortholog of xpsL, which encodes the functional secretion machinery for the extracellular enzymes, showed a dramatic decrease in pathogenicity on rice. Both mutants of kdgR and of xpsL orthologs showed higher expression of two major hrp regulatory genes, hrpG and hrpX, and the genes in the hrp operons when grown in hrp-inducing medium. Thus, both genes were shown to be involved in repression of hrp genes. The kdgR ortholog was thought to suppress virulence mainly by repressing the expression of hrp genes without affecting the expression of extracellular enzymes, unlike findings for the kdgR gene in soft-rotting Erwinia spp. On the other hand, xpsL was confirmed to be involved in virulence by promoting the secretion of extracellular enzymes in spite of repressing the expression of the hrp genes.
21984902	Phytocyanins (PCs) are plant-specific blue copper proteins involved in electron transport, and a large number of known PCs are considered to be chimeric arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs). To date there has not been a genome-wide overview of the OsPC gene family. Therefore, as the first step and a useful strategy to elucidate the functions of OsPCs, there is an urgent need for a thorough genome-wide analysis of this gene family. In this study, a total of 62 OsPC genes were identified through a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome. Based on phylogeny and motif constitution, the family of OsPCs was classified into three subclasses: uclacyanin-like proteins (OsUCLs), stellacyanin-like proteins (OsSCLs) and early nodulin-like proteins (OsENODLs). Structure and glycosylation prediction indicated that 46 OsPCs were glycosylphosphatigylinositol-anchored proteins and 38 OsPCs were chimeric AGPs. Gene duplication analysis revealed that chromosomal segment and tandem duplications contributed almost equally to the expansion of this gene family, and duplication events were mostly happened in the OsUCL subfamily. The expression profiles of OsPC genes were analyzed at different stages of vegetative and reproductive development and under abiotic stresses. It revealed that a large number of OsPC genes were abundantly expressed in the various stages of development. Moreover, 17 genes were regulated under the treatments of abiotic stresses. The genome-wide identification and expression analysis of OsPC genes should facilitate research in this gene family and give new insights toward elucidating their functions in higher plants.
21984925	Chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high throughput DNA Sequencing (ChIP-Seq) has emerged as a powerful tool for genome wide profiling of the binding sites of proteins associated with DNA such as histones and transcription factors. However, no peak calling program has gained consensus acceptance by the scientific community as the preferred tool for ChIP-Seq data analysis. Analyzing the large data sets generated by ChIP-Seq studies remains highly challenging for most molecular biology laboratories.Here we profile H3K27me3 enrichment sites in rice young endosperm using the ChIP-Seq approach and analyze the data using four peak calling algorithms (FindPeaks, PeakSeq, USeq, and MACS). Comparison of the four algorithms reveals that these programs produce very different peaks in terms of peak size, number, and position relative to genes. We verify the peak predictions using ChIP-PCR to evaluate the accuracy of peak prediction of the four algorithms. We discuss the approach of each algorithm and compare similarities and differences in the results. Despite their differences in the peaks identified, all of the programs reach similar conclusions about the effect of H3K27me3 on gene expression. Its presence either upstream or downstream of a gene is predominately associated with repression of the gene. Additionally, GO analysis finds that a substantially higher ratio of genes associated with H3K27me3 were involved in multicellular organism development, signal transduction, response to external and endogenous stimuli, and secondary metabolic pathways than the rest of the rice genome.
21985646	Human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (hG-CSF) is an important human cytokine which has been widely used in oncology and infection protection. To satisfy clinical needs, expression of recombinant hG-CSF has been studied in several organisms, including rice cell suspension culture and transient expression in tobacco leaves, but there was no published report on its expression in stably transformed plants which can serve as a more economical expression platform with potential industrial application. In this study, hG-CSF expression was investigated in transgenic tobacco leaves and seeds in which the accumulation of hG-CSF could be enhanced through fusion with ubiquitin by up to 7 fold in leaves and 2 fold in seeds, leading to an accumulation level of 2.5 mg/g total soluble protein (TSP) in leaves and 1.3 mg/g TSP in seeds, relative to hG-CSF expressed without a fusion partner. Immunoblot analysis showed that ubiquitin was processed from the final protein product, and ubiquitination was up-regulated in all transgenic plants analyzed. Driven by CaMV 35S promoter and phaseolin signal peptide, hG-CSF was observed to be secreted into apoplast in leaves but deposited in protein storage vacuole (PSV) in seeds, indicating that targeting of the hG-CSF was tissue-dependent in transgenic tobacco. Bioactivity assay showed that hG-CSF expressed in both seeds and leaves was bioactive to support the proliferation of NFS-60 cells. In this study, the expression of bioactive hG-CSF in transgenic plants was improved through ubiquitin fusion strategy, demonstrating that protein expression can be enhanced in both plant leaves and seeds through fusion with ubiquitin and providing a typical case of tissue-dependent expression of recombinant protein in transgenic plants.
21985968	Rice (Oryza sativa) contains a biosynthetic gene cluster associated with production of at least two groups of diterpenoid phytoalexins, the antifungal phytocassanes and antibacterial oryzalides. While cytochromes P450 (CYP) from this cluster are known to be involved in phytocassane production, such mono-oxygenase activity relevant to oryzalide biosynthesis was unknown. Here we report biochemical characterization demonstrating that CYP71Z6 from this cluster acts as an ent-isokaurene C2-hydroxylase that is presumably involved in the biosynthesis of oryzalides. Our results further suggest that the closely related and co-clustered CYP71Z7 likely acts as a C2-hydroxylase involved in a latter step of phytocassane biosynthesis. Thus, CYP71Z6 & 7 appear to have evolved distinct roles in rice diterpenoid metabolism, offering insight into plant biosynthetic gene cluster evolution.
21987151	A 32-year-old male patient presented for 8 months an asymptomatic therapy-resistant acneiform eruption on his back and buttocks. Skin examination showed several inflammatory papules, which evolved to hyperpigmentation. At the same distribution non inflammatory papules, which resembled rice grains, were also observed. Light microscopy showed small keratin-filled cysts, with an epithelial multilayered wall, without granular layer. Keratin and some vellus hairs were identified inside the cyst, confirming the diagnosis of vellus hair cysts. Diagnosis of vellus hair cysts should be suspected in cases of multiple papules or therapy-resistant cases of acneiform eruptions.
21987178	The dry deposition of atmospheric nitrogen (including NO(2) and NH(3)) into a typical agro-ecosystem in Southeast China during 2006-2007 was estimated. Results indicated that the dry deposition velocities of NO(2) and NH(3) ranged from 0.04-0.24 cm s(-1) and 0.09-0.47 cm s(-1), respectively. The higher values appeared in the non-crop growing period. Concentrations of atmospheric NO(2) and NH(3) ranged from 24.64-104.10 μgN m(-3) and 14.40-389.6 μgN m(-3), respectively. Variation of the NH(3) mixing ratio showed a clear double-peak. NO(2) and NH(3) deposition fluxes were 74.68-80.75 kgN ha(-1), which was equivalent to 162.4 and 175.5 kg ha(-1) of urea applied in 2006-2007. The N deposition fluxes were 13.91-40.38 and 5.33-22.73 kgN ha(-1) in peanut and rice growing periods, accounting for 8.18%-40.38% and 2.13%-23.06% of N fertilizer usages, respectively. NO(2) and NH(3) deposition were significant for the red soil farmland.
21987378	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola is the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak in rice and injects repertoires of T3S effectors (T3SEs), which are normally regulated by a global regulator HrpX, into plant cells to suppress plant innate immunity for disease development. To establish a visualization technique to identify HrpX regulon genes in this pathogen, we chose six known or unknown T3SE genes of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (strain RS105) as the targets in this report. The promoters of these candidates, whether or not containing a PIP-box, were fused with the gfp (green fluorescent protein) reporter gene, and the gfp reporters were introduced into the wild-type RS105 and the hrpX mutant RΔhrpX. GFP expression in the wild-type strain could be observed under fluorescence microscopy, but fluorescence was not observed in the hrpX mutant. Consequently, transcription and secretion detection demonstrated that these HrpX regulon members were repressed when hrpX was mutated and were not secreted into the hrp-inducing medium XOM3 because of a mutation in hrcV (T3SS deficient). These data suggest that the gfp reporter system is a feasible visualization tool for the identification of HrpX regulon genes and discovery of new T3SEs in the X. oryzae pv. oryzicola-rice pathosystem.
21987600	This paper pays a tribute to Dr. Frank I Tovey on his 90th birthday which happens on September 1, 2011, and briefly describes the major findings in his research career and contributions as follows. The geographical prevalence of duodenal ulceration is related to staple diets. Unrefined wheat and maize, soya, certain pulses and millets are associated with a low prevalence while refined wheat, maize and rice, yams, cassava and green banana with a high prevalence. Predominant foodstuffs from low prevalence areas are ulceroprotective in rat peptic ulcer models. The protective activity lies in the lipid fraction present in these foodstuffs. The lipid fraction also promotes ulcer healing, is active both orally and intramuscularly and is ulceroprotective against non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The phospholipids and phytosterols present in the lipid have been identified to be responsible for this protective activity. The combination of phospholipids and phytosterols may be of value in the prevention and treatment of duodenal ulceration and protection against the ulcerogenic effect of NSAIDs.
21988523	The expression of AlSAP, in rice cv. Nipponbare, enhances plant tolerance to cold, drought and salt stresses. AlSAP lines showed 100% survival rate and set seeds while control plants did not recover from the cold treatment. Under a severe drought stress treatment (fraction of transpirable soil water down to 0.1), AlSAP lines exhibited enhanced Transpiration Efficiency (TE) and maintained a high A (Assimilation rate) value (22 µmol·m(-2) s(-1)) while these values dramatically decreased (A = 4 µmol·m(-2) s(-1)) in control plants which were subsequently unable to recover from the stress. Of noteworthy is that AlSAP rice plants yielded a similar and a 60% seed set under control and stress conditions respectively, with regard to wild-type (WT) plants grown under control conditions. This indicates that AlSAP expression imposes no yield penalty and allows seed production even following a severe drought stress at the vegetative stage. Furthermore, AlSAP rice was shown to accumulate transcripts of a pilot set of eight stress-related genes at a significantly higher level than WT plants, both under control and stressed conditions. The results suggest that AlSAP expression generates stress tolerance in plants through maintenance of the photosynthetic apparatus integrity and by stimulating an endogenous adaptive potential which is not effectively accomplished in WT plants.
21991355	Plants within the Orobanchaceae are an agriculturally important group of parasites that attack economically important crops to obtain water and nutrients from their hosts. Despite their agricultural importance, molecular mechanisms of the parasitism are poorly understood. We developed transient and stable transformation systems for Phtheirospermum japonicum, a facultative parasitic plant in the Orobanchaceae. The transformation protocol was established by a combination of sonication and acetosyringone treatments using the hairy-root-inducing bacterium, Agrobacterium rhizogenes and young seedlings. Transgenic hairy roots of P. japonicum were obtained from cotyledons 2 to 3 weeks after A. rhizogenes inoculation. The presence and the expression of transgenes in P. japonicum were verified by genomic PCR, Southern blot and RT-PCR methods. Transgenic roots derived from A. rhizogenes-mediated transformation were able to develop haustoria on rice and maize roots. Transgenic roots also formed apparently competent haustoria in response to 2,6-dimethoxy-1,4-benzoquinone (DMBQ), a haustorium-inducing chemical. Using this system, we introduced a reporter gene with a Cyclin B1 promoter into P. japonicum, and visualized cell division during haustorium formation. We provide an easy and efficient method for hairy-root transformation of P. japonicum. Transgenic marker analysis revealed that cell divisions during haustorium development occur 24 h after DMBQ treatment. The protocols described here will allow functional analysis of genes involved in plant parasitism.
21993813	The unavailability of microsatellite markers and saturated genetic linkage map has restricted the genetic improvement of foxtail millet [Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.], despite the fact that in recent times it has been documented as a new model species for biofuel grasses. With the objective to generate a good number of microsatellite markers in foxtail millet cultivar 'Prasad', 690 clones were sequenced which generated 112.95 kb high quality sequences obtained from three genomic libraries each enriched with different microsatellite repeat motifs. Microsatellites were identified in 512 (74.2%) of the 690 positive clones and 172 primer pairs (pp) were successfully designed from 249 (48.6%) unique SSR-containing clones. The efficacies of the microsatellite containing genomic sequences were established by superior primer designing ability (69%), PCR amplification efficiency (85.5%) and polymorphic potential (52%) in the parents of F(2) mapping population. Out of 172 pp, functional 147 markers showed high level of cross-species amplification (~74%) in six grass species. Higher polymorphism rate and broad range of genetic diversity (0.30-0.69 averaging 0.58) obtained in constructed phylogenetic tree using 52 microsatellite markers, demonstrated the utility of markers in germplasm characterizations. In silico comparative mapping of 147 foxtail millet microsatellite containing sequences against the mapping data of sorghum (~18%), maize (~16%) and rice (~5%) indicated the presence of orthologous sequences of the foxtail millet in the respective species. The result thus demonstrates the applicability of microsatellite markers in various genotyping applications, determining phylogenetic relationships and comparative mapping in several important grass species.
21993911	Microbial activities involved in the dynamics of organic matter determine the potential for organic carbon (C) accumulation in soil. To understand this for paddy soil, an incubation experiment (25 °C, 45% water-holding capacity) was established using (14)C-labelled glucose and rice straw (500 µg C g(-1) soil) as substrates; an adjacent upland soil was used for comparison. The amount of microbial biomass in the paddy soil was approximately 6 times larger and its turnover rate was 1.5-3 times faster than in the upland soil. These proportions of (14)C-labelled glucose and rice straw mineralized in the paddy soil were about 3% smaller (P < 0.01) than those in the upland soil. Also, there was no significant priming effect of fresh substrate additions on the mineralization of native organic C in the paddy soil, while the priming effect was significant in the upland soil. Although the paddy soil contains a large amount of microbial biomass, which is also very active, the mineralization of fresh substrates is significantly restricted in this soil, along with a small priming effect. This favours the accumulation of organic C in paddy soils.
21994523	Takju is a Korean alcoholic beverage made from rice, and is brewed with the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of exercise training and moderate Takju consumption on learning ability in 6-week old Sprague-Dawley male rats. The rats were treated with exercise and alcohol for 4 weeks in six separate groups as follows: non-exercised control (CC), exercised control (EC), non-exercised consuming ethanol (CA), exercised consuming ethanol (EA), non-exercised consuming Takju (CT), and exercised consuming Takju (ET). An AIN-93M diet was provided ad libitum. Exercise training was performed at a speed of 10 m/min for 15 minutes per day. Ethanol and Takju were administered daily for 6-7 hours to achieve an intake of about 10 ml after 12 hours of deprivation, and, thereafter, the animals were allowed free access to deionized water. A Y-shaped water maze was used from the third week to understand the effects of exercise and alcohol consumption on learning and memory. After sacrifice, brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was analyzed. Total caloric intake and body weight changes during the experiment were not significantly different among the groups. AChE activity was not significantly different among the groups. The number of errors for position reversal training in the maze was significantly smaller in the EA group than that in the CA and ET groups, and latency times were shorter in the EA group than those in the CC, EC, CT, and ET groups. The latency difference from the first to the fifth day was shortest in the ET group. The exercised groups showed more errors and latency than those of the non-exercised groups on the first day, but the data became equivalent from the second day. The results indicate that moderate exercise can increase memory and learning and that the combination of exercise and Takju ingestion may enhance learning ability.
21994526	The Korea Food and Drug Administration (KFDA) revised the Health Functional Food Act in 2008 and extended the form of health functional foods to general food types. Therefore, this study was performed to investigate consumers' perceptions of the expanded form of health functional food and to predict consumption patterns. For this study, 1,006 male and female adults aged 19 years and older were selected nationwide by multi-stage stratified random sampling and were surveyed in 1:1 interviews. The questionnaire survey was conducted by Korea Gallup. The subjects consisted of 497 (49.4%) males and 509 (50.6%) females. About 57.9% of the subjects recognized the KFDA's permission procedures for health functional foods. Regarding the health functional foods that the subjects had consumed, red ginseng products were the highest (45.3%), followed by nutritional supplements (34.9%), ginseng products (27.9%), lactobacillus-containing products (21.0%), aloe products (20.3%), and Japanese apricot extract products (18.4%). Opinions on expanding the form of health functional foods to general food types scored 4.7 points on a 7-point scale, showing positive responses. In terms of the effects of medicine-type health functional foods versus generic health functional foods, the highest response was 'same effects if the same ingredients are contained' at a rate of 34.7%. For intake frequency by food type, the response of 'daily consistent intake' was 31.7% for capsules, tablets, and pills, and 21.7% for extracts. For general food types, 'daily consistent intake' was 44.5% for rice and 22.8% for beverages, which were higher rates than those for medicine types. From the above results, consumers had positive opinions of the expansion of health functional foods to generic forms but are not expected to maintain accurate intake frequencies or amounts. Thus, continuous promotion and education are needed for proper intake of generic health functional foods.
21994531	Selenium is an antioxidant trace element linked to cardiovascular disease and cancer. Although diet is a major source, relatively little else is known about independent determinants of selenium levels in free-living humans. In this study, we aimed to investigate the independent demographic, lifestyle, and dietary determinants of selenium levels in 1,997 men and 1,905 women in two large prospective U.S. cohorts. Toenail selenium levels were quantified using neutron activation analysis. Diet, geographic residence, demographic, and environmental factors were assessed by validated self-administered questionnaires. Multivariate generalized linear models were conducted to assess the independent relations of these factors with toenail selenium levels, correcting for measurement error in the diet. In multivariable-adjusted analyses, independent predictors of higher selenium were male gender (6.3% higher levels); living in West and Northern-Midwest U.S. regions (8.9% and 7.4% higher than Southern-Midwest regions, respectively); consumption of beef and bread products (between 0.7 - 2.5% higher per daily serving); and selenium supplement use (6.9% higher than non-users); whereas cigarette smoking (5-10% lower than never smokers) , older age (0.6% lower per 5 years), and consumption of eggs, white rice, dairy products, coffee, and alcohol (between 0.1 to 2.0% lower per daily serving) were associated with lower selenium. Multiple dietary and non-dietary factors independently predicted selenium levels, suggesting that both consumption and non-dietary processes (e.g., related to oxidant status) may affect levels. Significant geographic variation in selenium levels exists in the US.
21995342	Lactic acid bacteria play important roles in various fermented foods in Asia. Besides being the main component in kimchi and other fermented foods, they are used to preserve edible food materials through fermentation of other raw-materials such as rice wine/beer, rice cakes, and fish by producing organic acids to control putrefactive microorganisms and pathogens. These bacteria also provide a selective environment favoring fermentative microorganisms and produce desirable flavors in various fermented foods. This paper discusses the role of lactic acid bacteria in various non-dairy fermented food products in Asia and their nutritional and physiological functions in the Asian diet.
21995922	A method was developed for the simultaneous determination of 10 triazine herbicides (cyanazine, simazine, simetryn, metribuzin, atrazine, ametryn, terbuthylazine, prometryn, terbutryn, and dimethametryn) in rice samples by high resolution and high mass accuracy hybrid linear ion trap-Orbitrap mass spectrometer. After extraction with acetonitrile and evaporation, the herbicides were redissolved in n-hexane and purified on a Florisil solid-phase extraction column. All compounds were separated within 12 min, producing more than 11 data points for each herbicide and high mass accuracy quantified ions which the mass errors of absolute value were less than 1.9 ppm in pure solution and 2.1 ppm in the matrix-matched standards solution. The method was validated in terms of the limits of detection and the limits of quantification. The linearity was satisfactory, with a correlation coefficient of >0.9975. Precision and recovery studies were evaluated at three concentration levels for Japonica, Indica, and Glutinous rice matrix. The mean recoveries obtained for all analytes in spiked Xiushui 03, Liangyoupeijiu, and Taihunuo rice samples were 83.3-99.0%, 82.0-99.7%, and 84.2-99.4%, respectively, with relative standard deviation in range 1.7-10.6%, 1.2-10.7%, and 1.9-11.6% for spiked rice samples, respectively. The intra-day precision (n=5) for the 10 herbicides in rice samples spiked at an intermediate level was between 2.8% and 7.9%, and the inter-day precision over 10 days (n=10) was between 5.5% and 15.9%.
21996720	Four paddy herbicides and their transformation products (TPs) were monitored in the Sakura River, Japan, during the rice growing seasons of 2009 and 2010. Toxicity tests to an attached diatom, Mayamaea atomus, and a green alga, Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, were also conducted. Clomeprop propionic acid, which forms from the degrading herbicide, was detected in the river water at much higher concentrations than the parent compound (the maximum concentration of the TP and the parent compound; 0.829-0.925 μg/L and 0.039-0.073 μg/L, respectively). The toxicity of the TPs to the diatom and green alga was relatively low; the 72-h median effective concentration (EC(50)) value > 1,470 μg/L; for each compound, the maximum concentration in the river did not exceed the EC(50) value.
21997865	To see the efficacy and safety of 250 mg of Saccharomyces boulardii twice daily for 5 d in acute childhood diarrhea. Children aged between 3 mo and 59 mo with acute onset diarrhea (of less than 48 h) admitted in DTTU (diarrhea treatment and training unit) were included and those with clinical evidence of severe malnutrition, systemic infection, encephalopathy and/or convulsion, electrolyte imbalance, invasive diarrhea or previous use of any probiotics were excluded from the study. Those included randomly were given either a placebo or Saccharomyces boullardi (SB) in identical packets mixed with puffed rice powder. Mean post intervention duration of diarrhea was significantly (95% CI = -28.13 to -5.43) shorter in SB group (52.08 ± 24.57 h) as compared to placebo group (64.04 ± 30.43 h). The time of appearance of first semi formed stool in SB group (39.48 ± 23.09 h) was significantly (95% CI -25.4 to -3.87) shorter than the placebo group (54.13 ± 28.21 h). No statistically significant difference was found in rest of the parameters. There is initial evidence available that SB may have a therapeutic role in the management of acute childhood diarrhea.
21997963	The aim of this work is to prepare a controlled-release formulation of uniconazole using porous hollow silica nanoparticles (PHSNs) as carrier, and to investigate the biological effects on rice growth. PHSNs with a shell thickness of ~15 nm and a particle size of 80-100 nm were synthesised through a sol-gel route using nanosized calcium carbonate particles as templates. Simple immersing (SI) and supercritical fluid drug loading (SFDL) technologies were employed to load uniconazole into PHSNs with loading efficiencies of ~22 and ~26% respectively. The prepared uniconazole-loaded PHSNs (UCZ-PHSNs) by SI and SFDL both demonstrated sustained release properties, and the latter showed better controlled release ability with a slower release rate. Compared with free uniconazole, UCZ-PHSNs exhibited a weaker growth retardation effect in the early stage but more significant retardation ability in later stages for agar-cultured rice seedlings. For the rice that grew in clay, UCZ-PHSNs demonstrated a weaker plant height retardation effect than free uniconazole at the early jointing stage by foliar spraying, but exhibited a stronger retardation capacity than free uniconazole by being applied into soil before seedling transplantation. The results indicated that the prepared UCZ-PHSNs possessed good controlled-release properties and had improved retardation effects on rice growth. It is recommended that UCZ-PHSNs be applied into soil before seedling transplantation rather than administered by foliar spraying at the early jointing stage.
21997964	Starch is the most important carbohydrate in the human diet and contained in many staple foods such as rice, wheat, corn, potatoes and cassava, etc. Currently, microscopic imaging technology is one of the most effective ways to investigate and analyze the structure of starches. Segmentation of starch granules is a necessary step for starch granule structure analysis such as starch granules detection, shape recognition, and size computation. This article investigates a new method based on GVF (gradient vector flow) snake deformable model for starch granules segmentation. The proposed method focuses on full automatic segmentation on granules, especially on separation of adjacent and contacted starch granules, which occur widely in microscopic images. A novel energy function based on position and intensity is introduced into the directional gradient computation, thus the directional gradient is used to obtain the directional GVF snake, which drives the deforming contours to the real contours of multiple granules. To demonstrate the good ability of the proposed method, we segment 30 starch granule images and compare it with the level set method, experimental results show that the new method can separate multiple starch granules successfully; especially it works much better on overlapping objects segmentation than the level set method.
21998605	30-year-old male was admitted with general weakness and drowsy mental status. He had eaten only 3-4 spoons of brown rice and fresh vegetable without salt for 3 months to treat his tic disorder, and he had been in bed-ridden state. He has had weight loss of 14 kg in the last 3 months. We report a patient with orthorexia nervosa who developed hyponatremia, metabolic acidosis, subcutaneous emphysema, mediastinal emphysema, pneumothorax, and pancytopenia and we will review the literature. Also, we mention to prevent refeeding syndrome, and to start and maintain feeding in malnourished patients.
21999326	A survey was carried out to determine Fusarium species and fumonisin contamination in 55 durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) samples collected during two harvest seasons (2007 and 2008) using HPLC and further LC-MS/MS confirmation. All samples showed Fusarium contamination with infection levels ranging from 8 to 66%, F. proliferatum being the species most frequently isolated during 2007 and the second most frequently isolated one during the 2008 harvest season, respectively. Natural contamination with fumonisins was found in both harvest seasons. In 2007, 97% of the samples showed total fumonisin (FB(1) + FB(2)) levels ranging from 10.5 to 1245.7 ng/g, while very low levels of fumonisins were detected in samples collected during 2008. These results could be explained by differences in the amount of rainfall during both periods evaluated. A selected number (n = 48) of F. proliferatum isolates showed fumonisin production capability on autoclaved rice. This is the first report of the presence of natural fumonisins in durum wheat grains.
21999670	The extensive family of plant terpene synthases (TPSs) generally has a bi-domain structure, yet phylogenetic analyses consistently indicate that these synthases have evolved from larger diterpene synthases. In particular, that duplication of the diterpene synthase genes required for gibberellin phytohormone biosynthesis provided an early predecessor, whose loss of a approximately 220 amino acid 'internal sequence element' (now recognized as the γ domain) gave rise to the precursor of the modern mono- and sesqui-TPSs found in all higher plants. Intriguingly, TPSs are conserved by taxonomic relationships rather than function. This relationship demonstrates that such functional radiation has occurred both repeatedly and relatively recently, yet phylogenetic analyses assume that the 'internal/γ' domain loss represents a single evolutionary event. Here we provide evidence that such a loss was not a singular event, but rather has occurred multiple times. Specifically, we provide an example of a bi-domain diterpene synthase from Salvia miltiorrhiza, along with a sesquiterpene synthase from Triticum aestivum (wheat) that is not only closely related to diterpene synthases, but retains the ent-kaurene synthase activity relevant to the ancestral gibberellin metabolic function. Indeed, while the wheat sesquiterpene synthase clearly no longer contains the 'internal/γ' domain, it is closely related to rice diterpene synthase genes that retain the ancestral tri-domain structure. Thus, these findings provide examples of key evolutionary intermediates that underlie the bi-domain structure observed in the expansive plant TPS gene family, as well as indicating that 'internal/γ' domain loss has occurred independently multiple times, highlighting the complex evolutionary history of this important enzymatic family.
22000657	Insect-damaged rice plants emit a complex mixture of volatiles that are highly attractive to parasitic wasps. Indole is one constituent of insect-induced rice volatiles, and is produced in plants by the enzyme indole-3-glycerol phosphate lyase (IGL). The alpha-subunit of tryptophan synthase (TSA) is the IGL that catalyses the conversion of indole-3-glycerol phosphate to indole in the alpha-reaction of tryptophan synthesis; however, TSA is only active in the complex with the beta-subunit of tryptophan synthase and is not capable of producing free indole. In maize a TSA homolog, ZmIgl, is the structural gene responsible for volatile indole biosynthesis. Bioinformatic analysis based on the ZmIgl-sequence indicated that the rice genome contains five homologous genes. Three homologs Os03g58260, Os03g58300 and Os07g08430, have detectable transcript levels in seedling tissue and were expressed in both insect-damaged and control rice plants. Only Os03g58300, however, was up-regulated by insect feeding. Recombinant proteins of the three rice genes were tested for IGL activity. Os03g58300 had a low K(m) for indole-3-glycerol phosphate and a high k(cat), and hence can efficiently produce indole. Os07g08430 exhibited biochemical properties resembling characterized TSAs. In contrast, Os03g58260 was inactive as a monomer. Analysis of Os03g58300 expression and indole emission provides further support that Os03g58300 is the bona fide rice IGL for biosynthesis of indole, in analogy to maize, this gene is termed OsIgl. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the rice genes are localized in two distinct clades together with the maize genes ZmIgl and ZmBx1 (Os03g58300) and ZmTSA (Os03g58260 and Os07g08430). The genes in the two clades have distinct enzyme activities and gene structures in terms of intron/exon organization. These results suggest that OsIgl evolved after the split of monocot and dicot lineages and before the diversification of the Poaceae.
22000797	During the last two decades, several exciting reports have provided many advances in the role and biosynthesis of l-ascorbic acid (AsA) and tocochromanols, including tocopherols and tocotrienols, in higher plants. There are increasing bodies of experimental evidence that demonstrate that AsA and tocochromanols (especially tocopherols) play an important role as antioxidants and nutrients in mammals and photosynthetic organisms and are also involved in plant responses to stimuli. Although AsA and tocochromanol biosynthesis pathways have been well characterized using Arabidopsis, these pathways are still poorly understood in rice, which is an economically important monocot cereal crop. In this study using computational analysis of sequenced rice genome, we identified eight and seven potential non-redundant members involved in AsA and tocochromanol biosynthetic pathways, respectively. The results reveal that the common feature of these gene promoters is the combination of light-responsive, hormone-responsive, and stress-responsive elements. These findings, together with expression analysis in the MPSS database, indicate that AsA and tocochromanols might be co-related with the complex signaling pathways involved in plant responses.
22001611	During the last decade, microarrays became a routine tool for the analysis of transcripts in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and the crop plant species rice, poplar or barley. The overwhelming amount of data generated by gene expression studies is a valuable resource for every scientist. Here, we summarize the most important findings about the abiotic stress responses in plants. Interestingly, conserved patterns of gene expression responses have been found that are common between different abiotic stresses or that are conserved between different plant species. However, the individual histories of each plant affect the inter-comparability between experiments already before the onset of the actual stress treatment. This review outlines multiple aspects of microarray technology and highlights some of the benefits, limitations and also pitfalls of the technique. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Plant gene regulation in response to abiotic stress.
22002178	Flubendiamide insecticide is widely used in Indian subtropical condition to control lepidopteron pests mainly in rice and cotton. The present study reports leaching behaviour of flubendiamide, N(2)-[1,1-dimethyl-2-(methylsulfonyl)ethyl]-3-iodo-N(1)-[2-methyl-4-[1,2,2,2-tetrafluoro-1 (trifluoromethyl)ethyl] phenyl]-1,2-benzene dicarboxamide, in packed soil columns under different rainfall conditions. Flubendiamide did not leach out of the 25 cm long soil columns even after percolating water equivalent to 462.18 mm rainfall. After leaching with water equivalent to 462.18 mm rainfall, in analytical grade treatment, 68.06% of the recovered flubendiamide was the major amount present in 5-10 cm depth whereas in the formulation 67.22% of the recovered flubendiamide was confined to 0-5 cm depth. Results revealed that with percolating 160 mL of water residues of desiodo flubendiamide detected up to 20-25 cm layer along with 9.47% residues in this layer, indicating that metabolite is more mobile as compared to analytical grade flubendiamide and 39.35% SC formulation. Formulation slowed the downward mobility of flubendiamide in soil column. Flubendiamide is slightly mobile in sandy loam soil, but desiodo flubendiamide is relatively more mobile and may leach into ground water.
22002476	A salient feature of genomes of higher organisms is the birth and death of gene copies. An example is the alpha prolamin genes, which encode seed storage proteins in grasses (Poaceae) and represent a medium-size gene family. To better understand the mechanism, extent, and pace of gene amplification, we compared prolamin gene copies in the genomes of two different tribes in the Panicoideae, the Paniceae and the Andropogoneae. We identified alpha prolamin (setarin) gene copies in the diploid foxtail millet (Paniceae) genome (490 Mb) and compared them with orthologous regions in diploid sorghum (730 Mb) and ancient allotetraploid maize (2,300 Mb) (Andropogoneae). Because sequenced genomes of other subfamilies of Poaceae like rice (389 Mb) (Ehrhartoideae) and Brachypodium (272 Mb) (Pooideae) do not have alpha prolamin genes, their collinear regions can serve as "empty" reference sites. A pattern emerged, where genes were copied and inserted into other chromosomal locations followed by additional tandem duplications (clusters). We observed both recent (species-specific) insertion events and older ones that are shared by these tribes. Many older copies were deleted by unequal crossing over of flanking sequences or damaged by truncations. However, some remain intact with active and inactive alleles. These results indicate that genomes reflect only a snapshot of the gene content of a species and are far less static than conventional genetics has suggested. Nucleotide substitution rates for active alpha prolamins genes were twice as high as for low copy number beta, gamma, and delta prolamin genes, suggesting that gene amplification accelerates the pace of divergence.
22003838	Wheat is one of the most important cereal crops for human beings, with seeds being the tissue of highly economic value. Various morphogenetic and metabolic processes are exclusively associated with seed maturation. The goal of this study was to screen and identify genes specifically expressed in the developing seed of wheat with an integrative utilization of digital differential display (DDD) and available online microarray databases. A total of 201 unigenes were identified as the results of DDD screening and microarray database searching. The expressions of 6 of these were shown to be seed-specific by qRT-PCR analysis. Further GO enrichment analysis indicated that seed-specific genes were mainly associated with defense response, response to stress, multi-organism process, pathogenesis, extracellular region, nutrient reservoir activity, enzyme inhibitor activity, antioxidant activity and oxidoreductase activity. A comparison of this set of genes with the rice (Oryza sativa) genome was also performed and approximately three-fifths of them have rice counterparts. Between the counterparts, around 63% showed similar expression patterns according to the microarray data. In conclusion, the DDD screening combined with microarray data analysis is an effective strategy for the identification of seed-specific expressed genes in wheat. These seed-specific genes screened during this study will provide valuable information for further studies about the functions of these genes in wheat.
22003982	Meristem identity is crucial in determining the inflorescence architecture of grass species. We previously reported that SUPERNUMERARY BRACT (SNB) regulates the transition of spikelet meristems into floral meristems in rice (Oryza sativa). Here we demonstrated that SNB and Oryza sativa INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1 (OsIDS1) together play important roles in inflorescence architecture and the establishment of floral meristems. In snb osids1 double mutants, the numbers of branches and spikelets within a panicle are significantly decreased, and the transition to a floral meristem is further delayed compared with the snb single mutant. Expression analyses showed that SNB and OsIDS1 are required for spatio-temporal expression of B- and E-function floral organ identity genes in the lodicules. In addition, the AP2 family genes are important for determining the degree of ramification in branch meristems, regulating the spatio-temporal expression of spikelet meristem genes, such as FRIZZY PANICLE (FZP). Furthermore, overexpression of microRNA172 (miR172) causes reductions in SNB and OsIDS1 transcript levels, and phenotypes of the transgenic plants are more severe than for snb osids1. This indicates that additional gene(s) participate in the development of branch and floral meristems. Preferential expression of mature miR172s in the area around the spikelet meristems implies that depletion of the AP2 family genes in those meristems via miR172 is an important step in controlling inflorescence branching and the formation of floral organs.
22004041	Methanogenesis is an essential part of the global carbon cycle and a key bioprocess for sustainable energy. Methanogenesis from organic matter is accomplished by syntrophic interactions among different species of microbes, in which interspecies electron transfer (IET) via diffusive carriers (e.g. hydrogen and formate) is known to be the bottleneck step. We report herein that the supplementation of soil microbes with (semi)conductive iron-oxide minerals creates unique interspecies interactions and facilitates methanogenesis. Methanogenic microbes were enriched from rice paddy field soil with either acetate or ethanol as a substrate in the absence or presence of (semi)conductive iron oxides (haematite or magnetite). We found that the supplementation with either of these iron oxides resulted in the acceleration of methanogenesis in terms of lag time and production rate, while the supplementation with an insulative iron oxide (ferrihydrite) did not. Clone-library analyses of 16S rRNA gene fragments PCR-amplified from the enrichment cultures revealed that the iron-oxide supplementation stimulated the growth of Geobacter spp. Furthermore, the addition of a specific inhibitor for methanogenesis suppressed the growth of Geobacter spp. These results suggest that Geobacter grew under syntrophic association with methanogens, and IET could occur via electric currents through (semi)conductive iron-oxide minerals (termed 'electric syntrophy'). Given the ubiquity of conductive minerals in nature, such energetic interactions may occur widely in soil and sediments and can be used to develop efficient bioenergy processes.
22005427	The present study compared the intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) and the glucose postprandial response (GPPR) test for the evaluation of glucose metabolism in obese dogs. A total of ten owned obese dogs (body condition score (BCS) of 9; fat mass, 45.7 (sem 1.51) %) were used. These dogs had their weight reduced by 20 % (BCS, 8; fat mass, 33.5 (SEM 1.92) %; P < 0.001), designated as weight-reduced (WR) group. A control group of ten Beagle dogs was also included (BCS, 4.5; fat mass, 18.3 (SEM 1.38) %; P < 0.01). Glucose tolerance was measured by two methods: IVGTT (infusion of 0.5 g of glucose/kg body weight) and GPPR (consumption of cooked rice to achieve 6 g of starch/kg body weight). When using the IVGTT, the area under the curve (AUC) for glucose and maximum glycaemia were higher for obese dogs compared with controls (P < 0.05), with intermediate results for the WR group (P>0.05). Basal insulin, insulin response peak, insulinogenic index and the AUC for insulin increment from 0 to 15 min and from 60 to 120 min were higher for the obese group (P < 0.05), while the WR group and control dogs showed similar results (P>0.05). When using the GPPR test, the AUC for insulin increment from 0 to 120 min was higher for the obese group compared with the control group (P < 0.05) and intermediate for the WR group (P>0.05). However, the AUC for insulin increment from 120 to 360 min was similar between the obese and WR groups (P>0.05), while it was lower for the control group (P < 0.05). The IVGTT showed that the loss of 20 % body weight resulted in an improvement of glucose control with reduced insulin secretion, and these same WR dogs showed higher insulin secretion with values similar to those of obese dogs when the GPPR test was used.
22005737	The gdaA gene encoding S12 family glycine-D-alanine aminopeptidase (GdaA) was found in the industrial fungus Aspergillus oryzae. GdaA shares 43% amino acid sequence identity with the D-aminopeptidase of the Gram-negative bacterium Ochrobactrum anthropi. GdaA purified from an A. oryzae gdaA-overexpressing strain exhibited high D-stereospecificity and efficiently released N-terminal glycine and D-alanine of substrates in a highly specific manner. The optimum pH and temperature were 8 to 9 and 40°C, respectively. This enzyme was stable under alkaline conditions at pH 8 to 11 and relatively resistant to acidic conditions until pH 5.0. The chelating reagent EDTA, serine protease inhibitors such as AEBSF, benzamidine, TPCK, and TLCK, and the thiol enzyme inhibitor PCMB inhibited the enzyme. The aminopeptidase inhibitor bestatin did not affect the activity. GdaA was largely responsible for intracellular glycine and D-alanine aminopeptidase activities in A. oryzae during stationary-phase growth in liquid media. In addition, the activity increased in response to the depletion of nitrogen or carbon sources in the growth media, although the GdaA-independent glycine aminopeptidase activity highly increased simultaneously. Aminopeptidases of A. oryzae attract attention because the enzymatic release of a variety of amino acids and peptides is important for the enhancement of the palatability of fermented foods. GdaA activity was found in extracts of a solid-state rice culture of A. oryzae (rice koji), which is widely used as a starter culture for Japanese traditional fermented foods, and was largely responsible for the glycine and D-alanine aminopeptidase activity detected at a pH range of 6 to 9.
22007457	By installing a treatment of sulfur starvation, this paper studied the dynamic changes of rice seedling growth, cadmium (Cd) and non-protein thiol (NPT) contents, and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity under Cd stress. Cd stress inhibited the seedling growth obviously, induced the synthesis of sulfhydryl (-SH) compounds, including non-protein thiol, glutathione, and phytochelatins, and made the GST activity decreased after an initial increase. Sulfur starvation somewhat increased the Cd uptake and translocation, but less affected the impacts of Cd stress. The contents of -SH compounds decreased, and the GST activity in root increased. It was suggested that the roles of -SH compounds and GST in Cd-resistance of rice were complementary, being able to alleviate the Cd toxicity to some extent.
22008150	Drought is one of the most important abiotic stresses causing drastic reductions in yield in rainfed rice environments. The suitability of grain yield (GY) under drought as a selection criterion has been reported in the past few years. Most of the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for GY under drought in rice reported so far has been in the background of low-yielding susceptible varieties. Such QTLs have not shown a similar effect in multiple high- yielding drought-susceptible varieties, thus limiting their use in marker-assisted selection. Genetic control of GY under reproductive-stage drought stress (RS) in elite genetic backgrounds was studied in three F3:4 mapping populations derived from crosses of N22, a drought-tolerant aus cultivar, with Swarna, IR64, and MTU1010, three high-yielding popular mega-varieties, with the aim to identify QTLs for GY under RS that show a consistent effect in multiple elite genetic backgrounds. Three populations were phenotyped under RS in the dry seasons (DS) of 2009 and 2010 at IRRI. For genotyping, whole-genome scans for N22/MTU1010 and bulked segregant analysis for N22/Swarna and N22/IR64 were employed using SSR markers. A major QTL for GY under RS, qDTY₁.₁, was identified on rice chromosome 1 flanked by RM11943 and RM431 in all three populations. In combined analysis over two years, qDTY₁.₁ showed an additive effect of 29.3%, 24.3%, and 16.1% of mean yield in N22/Swarna, N22/IR64, and N22/MTU1010, respectively, under RS. qDTY₁.₁ also showed a positive effect on GY in non-stress (NS) situations in N22/Swarna, N22/IR64 over both years, and N22/MTU1010 in DS2009. This is the first reported QTL in rice with a major and consistent effect in multiple elite genetic backgrounds under both RS and NS situations. Consistency of the QTL effect across different genetic backgrounds makes it a suitable candidate for use in marker-assisted breeding.
22008187	Higher plants exhibit remarkable phenotypic plasticity allowing them to adapt to an extensive range of environmental conditions. Sorghum is a cereal crop that exhibits exceptional tolerance to adverse conditions, in particular, water-limiting environments. This study utilized next generation sequencing (NGS) technology to examine the transcriptome of sorghum plants challenged with osmotic stress and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) in order to elucidate genes and gene networks that contribute to sorghum's tolerance to water-limiting environments with a long-term aim of developing strategies to improve plant productivity under drought. RNA-Seq results revealed transcriptional activity of 28,335 unique genes from sorghum root and shoot tissues subjected to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced osmotic stress or exogenous ABA. Differential gene expression analyses in response to osmotic stress and ABA revealed a strong interplay among various metabolic pathways including abscisic acid and 13-lipoxygenase, salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, and plant defense pathways. Transcription factor analysis indicated that groups of genes may be co-regulated by similar regulatory sequences to which the expressed transcription factors bind. We successfully exploited the data presented here in conjunction with published transcriptome analyses for rice, maize, and Arabidopsis to discover more than 50 differentially expressed, drought-responsive gene orthologs for which no function had been previously ascribed. The present study provides an initial assemblage of sorghum genes and gene networks regulated by osmotic stress and hormonal treatment. We are providing an RNA-Seq data set and an initial collection of transcription factors, which offer a preliminary look into the cascade of global gene expression patterns that arise in a drought tolerant crop subjected to abiotic stress. These resources will allow scientists to query gene expression and functional annotation in response to drought.
22008507	Nitrogen is generally the most limiting nutrient for rice production. In rice paddy soils, various biochemical processes can occur regarding N cycling, including nitrification, denitrification, and nitrogen fixation. Since its discovery in the 1930s, the nitrification-denitrification process has been extensively studied in Japan. It may cause N loss from rice paddy soils, while it can also reduce environmental pollutions such as nitrate leaching and emission of nitrous oxide (N(2)O). In this review article, we first summarize the early and important findings regarding nitrification-denitrification in rice paddy soils, and then update recent findings regarding key players in denitrification and N(2)O reduction. In addition, we also discuss the potential occurrence of other newly found reactions in the N cycle, such as archaeal ammonia oxidization, fungal denitrification, anaerobic methane oxidation coupled with denitrification, and anaerobic ammonium oxidation.
22010107	Dominance, semidominance, and recessiveness are important modes of Mendelian inheritance. The phytohormone gibberellin (GA) regulates many plant growth and developmental processes. The previously cloned semidominant GA-insensitive (GAI) genes Reduced height1 (Rht1) and Rht2 in wheat (Triticum aestivum) were the basis of the Green Revolution. However, no completely dominant GAI gene has been cloned. Here, we report the molecular characterization of Rht-B1c, a dominant GAI allele in wheat that confers more extreme characteristics than its incompletely dominant alleles. Rht-B1c is caused by a terminal repeat retrotransposons in miniature insertion in the DELLA domain. Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that Rht-B1c protein fails to interact with GA-INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1), thereby blocking GA responses and resulting in extreme dwarfism and pleiotropic effects. By contrast, Rht-B1b protein only reduces interaction with GID1. Furthermore, we analyzed its functions using near-isogenic lines and examined its molecular mechanisms in transgenic rice. These results indicated that the affinity between GID1 and DELLA proteins is key to regulation of the stability of DELLA proteins, and differential interactions determine dominant and semidominant gene responses to GA.
22010108	Thioredoxins (Trxs) are a multigenic family of proteins in plants that play a critical role in redox balance regulation through thiol-disulfide exchange reactions. There are 10 members of the h-type Trxs in rice (Oryza sativa), and none of them has been clearly characterized. Here, we demonstrate that OsTRXh1, a subgroup I h-type Trx in rice, possesses reduction activity in vitro and complements the hydrogen peroxide sensitivity of Trx-deficient yeast mutants. OsTRXh1 is ubiquitously expressed in rice, and its expression is induced by salt and abscisic acid treatments. Intriguingly, OsTRXh1 is secreted into the extracellular space, and salt stress in the apoplast of rice induces its expression at the protein level. The knockdown of OsTRXh1 results in dwarf plants with fewer tillers, whereas the overexpression of OsTRXh1 leads to a salt-sensitive phenotype in rice. In addition, both the knockdown and overexpression of OsTRXh1 decrease abscisic acid sensitivity during seed germination and seedling growth. We also analyzed the levels of hydrogen peroxide produced in transgenic plants, and the results show that more hydrogen peroxide is produced in the extracellular space of OsTRXh1 knockdown plants than in wild-type plants, whereas the OsTRXh1 overexpression plants produce less hydrogen peroxide under salt stress. These results show that OsTRXh1 regulates the redox state of the apoplast and influences plant development and stress responses.
22010949	• Despite the great agricultural and ecological importance of efficient use of urea-containing nitrogen fertilizers by crops, molecular and physiological identities of urea transport in higher plants have been investigated only in Arabidopsis. • We performed short-time urea-influx assays which have identified a low-affinity and high-affinity (K(m) of 7.55 μM) transport system for urea-uptake by rice roots (Oryza sativa). • A high-affinity urea transporter OsDUR3 from rice was functionally characterized here for the first time among crops. OsDUR3 encodes an integral membrane-protein with 721 amino acid residues and 15 predicted transmembrane domains. Heterologous expression demonstrated that OsDUR3 restored yeast dur3-mutant growth on urea and facilitated urea import with a K(m) of c. 10 μM in Xenopus oocytes. • Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis revealed upregulation of OsDUR3 in rice roots under nitrogen-deficiency and urea-resupply after nitrogen-starvation. Importantly, overexpression of OsDUR3 complemented the Arabidopsis atdur3-1 mutant, improving growth on low urea and increasing root urea-uptake markedly. Together with its plasma membrane localization detected by green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagging and with findings that disruption of OsDUR3 by T-DNA reduces rice growth on urea and urea uptake, we suggest that OsDUR3 is an active urea transporter that plays a significant role in effective urea acquisition and utilisation in rice.
22012076	Agave tequilana is a monocarpic perennial species that flowers after 5-8 years of vegetative growth signaling the end of the plant's life cycle. When fertilization is unsuccessful, vegetative bulbils are induced on the umbels of the inflorescence near the bracteoles from newly formed meristems. Although the regulation of inflorescence and flower development has been described in detail for monocarpic annuals and polycarpic species, little is known at the molecular level for these processes in monocarpic perennials, and few studies have been carried out on bulbils. Histological samples revealed the early induction of umbel meristems soon after the initiation of the vegetative to inflorescence transition in A. tequilana. To identify candidate genes involved in the regulation of floral induction, a search for MADS-box transcription factor ESTs was conducted using an A. tequilana transcriptome database. Seven different MIKC MADS genes classified into 6 different types were identified based on previously characterized A. thaliana and O. sativa MADS genes and sequences from non-grass monocotyledons. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis of the seven candidate MADS genes in vegetative, inflorescence, bulbil and floral tissues uncovered novel patterns of expression for some of the genes in comparison with orthologous genes characterized in other species. In situ hybridization studies using two different genes showed expression in specific tissues of vegetative meristems and floral buds. Distinct MADS gene regulatory patterns in A. tequilana may be related to the specific reproductive strategies employed by this species.
22012692	Zeranol (Z) is a semi-synthetic mycotoxin that is used in some countries as a growth-promoting agent in livestock. In view of the known oestrogenic actions by Z and certain Z analogues, significant concerns exist with regard to the presence of Z residues in human foods and the potential for untoward effects, including carcinogenicity within the reproductive system. In order to confirm that foods are free from harmful Z residues, regulators need a quick and reliable analytical method that can be used for routine confirmation of Z-positive samples identified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) screening. In this study the authors have developed and validated a simple and rapid high-performance liquid chromatography method incorporating ultraviolet (UV) absorbance (wavelength 274 nm) and electrochemical (EC) dual-mode detection for simultaneous determination of Z-related mycotoxins produced from mouldy grain matrices, including rice, soybean and corn flakes. Recoveries for all analytes were around 80% and the limits of detection ranged from 10 to 25 ng mL(-1) for UV and from 50 to 90 ng mL(-1) for EC detection with good accuracy and reproducibility. Differential profiles and occurrence rates of Z, β-zearalenol, β-zearalanol and α-zearalenol in naturally moulded grain matrices were observed, indicating different metabolite patterns and possibly grain-specific effects of mycotoxin exposure for humans and animals. The strength of this dual detection method lies in its selectivity characterised by a carbon screen-printed electrode such that aflatoxin interference is precluded. The combined dual detection technique affords quick and reliable semi-confirmative and quantitative information on multiple types of Z analogues in mouldy grains without the necessity of using expensive mass spectrometry. The method is considered a superior supplement to ELISA, which only screens total Z immunoreactivity.
22013911	Trichothecenes are a group of toxic secondary metabolites produced mainly by Fusarium graminearum (teleomorph: Gibberella zeae) during the infection of crop plants, including wheat, maize, barley, oats, rye and rice. Some fungal genes involved in trichothecene biosynthesis have been shown to encode regulatory proteins. However, the global regulation of toxin biosynthesis is still enigmatic. In addition to the production of secondary metabolites belonging to the trichothecene family, F. graminearum produces the red pigment aurofusarin. The gene regulation underlying the production of aurofusarin is not well understood. The velvet gene (veA) is conserved in various genera of filamentous fungi. Recently, the veA gene from Aspergillus nidulans has been shown to be the key component of the velvet complex regulating development and secondary metabolism. Using blast analyses, we identified the velvet gene from F. graminearum, FgVe1. Disruption of FgVe1 causes several phenotypic effects. However, the complementation of this mutant with the FgVe1 gene restores the wild-type phenotypes. The in vitro phenotypes include hyperbranching of the mycelium, suppression of aerial hyphae formation, reduced hydrophobicity of the mycelium and highly reduced sporulation. Our data also show that FgVe1 modulates the production of the aurofusarin pigment and is essential for the expression of Tri genes and the production of trichothecenes. Pathogenicity studies performed on flowering wheat plants indicate that FgVe1 is a positive regulator of virulence in F. graminearum.
22013957	To evaluate the effect of galacto-fructo-oligosaccharide (G-FOS) fortification of non-dairy snack on relative calcium absorption, 61 girls (15-18 years) were randomly allocated to three equal groups; (i) Group-P, fermented-malted finger-millet pancake with soy coconut dip (snack; 534 mg calcium/serving); (ii) Group-G, snack fortified with G-FOS (8 g); (iii) Group-C: low calcium rice-flakes snack with calcium carbonate (540 mg). Group-G snack had lower pH (5.9) and higher total fatty acid content than group-P. After a 12-h fast, serum ionized calcium (iCa), intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) were measured at 0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 h after the ingestion of snack. Increment in area under the curve over baseline (ΔAUC) in iCa was higher in group-G(9.1%), as compared to group-P(1.4%) (p < 0.05) and group-C(3.1%). PTH ΔAUC was 39.7% higher for group-G as compared to group-P (p>0.1) but lower than group-C. In conclusion, calcium absorption is enhanced by G-FOS fortification and fermentation, which may be mediated through increased fatty acid content of the snack.
22014170	miRNAs are known to play important regulatory roles throughout plant development. Until recently, nearly all the miRNAs in maize were identified by comparative analysis to miRNAs sequences of other plant species, such as rice and Arabidopsis. To find new miRNA in this important crop, small RNAs from mixed tissues were sequenced, resulting in over 15 million unique sequences. Our sequencing effort validated 23 of the 28 known maize miRNA families, including 49 unique miRNAs. Using a newly established criterion, based on the precision of miRNA processing from precursors, we identified 66 novel miRNAs in maize. These miRNAs can be grouped into 58 families, 54 of which have not been identified in any other species. Five new miRNAs were validated by northern blot. Moreover, we found targets for 23 of the 66 new miRNAs. The targets of two of these newly identified miRNAs were confirmed by 5'RACE. We have implemented a novel method of identifying miRNA by measuring the precision of miRNA processing from precursors. Using this method, 66 novel miRNAs and 50 potential miRNAs have been identified in maize.
22014207	Root outer cell layers of Oryza sativa (rice), which comprise the epidermis, exodermis and sclerenchyma, play an important role in protecting the roots from various stresses in soil, but the molecular mechanisms for the specification of these cell layers are poorly understood. In this work, we report on defective in outer cell layer specification 1 (Docs1), which is involved in the specification of outer cell layers in rice roots. Docs1 was isolated by map-based cloning using a mutant (c68) defective in the outer cell layers of primary roots. It encodes a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase (LRR RLK). Docs1 mRNA was expressed in all tissues including roots, leaf blades and sheaths, and flowers. Immunostaining with an anti-Docs1 antibody showed that Docs1 was localized at the epidermis and exodermis, depending on the root region. Furthermore, Docs1 showed polar localization at the distal side. Subcellular examination showed that Docs1 was localized to the plasma membrane. Comparison of genome-wide transcriptional profiles between the wild-type and the knock-out mutant roots using microarray analysis showed that 61 and 41 genes were up- and downregulated in the mutant, including genes encoding putative transcription factors and genes potentially involved in cell wall metabolism. These results suggest that Docs1 might directly or indirectly regulate multiple genes involved in the proper development of root outer cell layers in rice.
22014626	Pattern analysis of adolescent diets may provide an important basis for nutritional health promotion. The aims of the present study were to examine and compare dietary patterns in adolescents using cluster analysis and principal component analysis (PCA) and to examine the impact of the format of the dietary variables on the solutions. Analysis was based on the Irish National Teens Food Survey, in which food intake data were collected using a semi-quantitative 7 d food diary. Thirty-two food groups were created and were expressed as either g/d or percentage contribution to total energy. Dietary patterns were identified using cluster analysis (k-means) and PCA. Republic of Ireland, 2005-2006. A representative sample of 441 adolescents aged 13-17 years. Five clusters based on percentage contribution to total energy were identified, 'Healthy', 'Unhealthy', 'Rice/Pasta dishes', 'Sandwich' and 'Breakfast cereal & Main meal-type foods'. Four principal components based on g/d were identified which explained 28 % of total variance: 'Healthy foods', 'Traditional foods', 'Sandwich foods' and 'Unhealthy foods'. A 'Sandwich' and an 'Unhealthy' pattern are the main dietary patterns in this sample. Patterns derived from either cluster analysis or PCA were comparable, although it appears that cluster analysis also identifies dietary patterns not identified through PCA, such as a 'Breakfast cereal & Main meal-type foods' pattern. Consideration of the format of the dietary variable is important as it can directly impact on the patterns obtained for both cluster analysis and PCA.
22015996	Although embryo development is a major subject in plant growth and development research, a number of aspects of the mechanism of this development process remain unknown. Rice (Oryza sativa) is an excellent monocot plant model for studying embryogenesis with a known genome sequence. Here, we conducted proteomic analysis of embryo development in rice (O. sativa L. ssp. indica cv. 9311). The aim was to investigate and characterize the changes in the protein expression profile during embryo development. For this purpose, the proteome of developing embryos was characterized by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and nano liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry. Proteomic analyses identified 275 differentially expressed proteins throughout the 5 sequential developmental stages from 5 to 30 days after pollination. Most of these proteins were classified into eight functional categories: metabolism, protein synthesis/destination, disease and defense, transporter, transcription, signal transduction, cell growth/division, and storage proteins, which were involved in different cellular and metabolic processes. Hierarchical clustering analyses of protein expression profiles showed that highly expressed proteins in early stages were involved in metabolism, protein synthesis/destination, and most of the other cellular functions, whereas the proteins highly expressed in later stages functioned in the desiccation and dormancy of the embryo.
22016342	GH3 proteins control auxin homeostasis by inactivating excess auxin as conjugates of amino acids and sugars and thereby controlling cellular bioactive auxin. Since auxin regulates many aspects of plant growth and development, regulated expression of these genes offers a mechanism to control various developmental processes. OsMGH3/OsGH3-8 is expressed abundantly in rice florets and is regulated by two related and redundant transcription factors, OsMADS1 and OsMADS6, but its contribution to flower development is not known. We functionally characterize OsMGH3 by overexpression and knock-down analysis and show a partial overlap in these phenotypes with that of mutants in OsMADS1 and OsMADS6. The overexpression of OsMGH3 during the vegetative phase affects the overall plant architecture, whereas its inflorescence-specific overexpression creates short panicles with reduced branching, resembling in part the effects of OsMADS1 overexpression. In contrast, the down-regulation of endogenous OsMGH3 caused phenotypes consistent with auxin overproduction or activated signaling, such as ectopic rooting from aerial nodes. Florets in OsMGH3 knock-down plants were affected in carpel development and pollen viability, both of which reduced fertility. Some of these floret phenotypes are similar to osmads6 mutants. Taken together, we provide evidence for the functional significance of auxin homeostasis and its transcriptional regulation during rice panicle branching and floret organ development.
22016420	The presence of melatonin in plants is universal. Evidence has confirmed that a major portion of the melatonin is synthesized by plants themselves even though a homologue of the classic arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT) has not been identified as yet in plants. Thus, the serotonin N-acetylating enzyme in plants may differ greatly from the animal AANAT with regard to sequence and structure. This would imply multiple evolutionary origins of enzymes with these catalytic properties. A primary function of melatonin in plants is to serve as the first line of defence against internal and environmental oxidative stressors. The much higher melatonin levels in plants compared with those found in animals are thought to be a compensatory response by plants which lack means of mobility, unlike animals, as a means of coping with harsh environments. Importantly, remarkably high melatonin concentrations have been measured in popular beverages (coffee, tea, wine, and beer) and crops (corn, rice, wheat, barley, and oats). Billions of people worldwide consume these products daily. The beneficial effects of melatonin on human health derived from the consumption of these products must be considered. Evidence also indicates that melatonin has an ability to increase the production of crops. The mechanisms may involve the roles of melatonin in preservation of chlorophyll, promotion of photosynthesis, and stimulation of root development. Transgenic plants with enhanced melatonin content could probably lead to breakthroughs to increase crop production in agriculture and to improve the general health of humans.
22016423	HvCO9 was characterized to elucidate the barley flowering control mechanisms and to investigate the functional diversification of the barley CONSTANS-like (CO-like) genes in flowering. HvCO9 was located on the same chromosome, 1HL, as Ppd-H2 (HvFT3), which is a positive regulator of short-day (SD) flowering. A phylogenetic analysis showed that HvCO9 was located on the same branch of the CO-like gene tree as rice Ghd7 and the barley and wheat VRN2 genes, which are all negative regulators of flowering. High level HvCO9 expressions were observed under SD conditions, whereas its expression levels were quite low under long-day (LD) conditions. HvCO9 expression correlated with HvFT1 and HvFT2 expression under SD conditions, although no clear effect of HvCO9 on HvFT3 expression, or vice versa, under SD conditions was observed. The over-expression of HvCO9 in rice plants produced a remarkable delay in flowering. In transgenic rice, the expression levels of the flowering-related Ehd1 gene, which is a target gene of Ghd7, and its downstream genes were suppressed, causing a delay in flowering. These results suggest that HvCO9 may act as a negative regulator of flowering under non-inductive SD conditions in barley; this activity is similar to that of rice Ghd7 under non-inductive LD conditions, but the functional targets of these genes may be different. Our results indicate that barley has developed its own pathways to control flowering by using homologous genes with modifications for the timing of expression. Further, it is hypothesized that each pathway may target different genes after gene duplication or species diversification.
22016425	A detailed and comprehensive understanding of seed reserve accumulation is of great importance for agriculture and crop improvement strategies. This work is part of a research programme aimed at using Brachypodium distachyon as a model plant for cereal grain development and filling. The focus was on the Bd21-3 accession, gathering morphological, cytological, and biochemical data, including protein, lipid, sugars, starch, and cell-wall analyses during grain development. This study highlighted the existence of three main developmental phases in Brachypodium caryopsis and provided an extensive description of Brachypodium grain development. In the first phase, namely morphogenesis, the embryo developed rapidly reaching its final morphology about 18 d after fertilization (DAF). Over the same period the endosperm enlarged, finally to occupy 80% of the grain volume. During the maturation phase, carbohydrates were continuously stored, mainly in the endosperm, switching from sucrose to starch accumulation. Large quantities of β-glucans accumulated in the endosperm with local variations in the deposition pattern. Interestingly, new β-glucans were found in Brachypodium compared with other cereals. Proteins (i.e. globulins and prolamins) were found in large quantities from 15 DAF onwards. These proteins were stored in two different sub-cellular structures which are also found in rice, but are unusual for the Pooideae. During the late stage of development, the grain desiccated while the dry matter remained fairly constant. Brachypodium exhibits some significant differences with domesticated cereals. Beta-glucan accumulates during grain development and this cell wall polysaccharide is the main storage carbohydrate at the expense of starch.
22016430	14-3-3 proteins are found in all eukaryotes where they act as regulators of diverse signalling pathways associated with a wide range of biological processes. In this study the functional characterization of the ZmGF14-6 gene encoding a maize 14-3-3 protein is reported. Gene expression analyses indicated that ZmGF14-6 is up-regulated by fungal infection and salt treatment in maize plants, whereas its expression is down-regulated by drought stress. It is reported that rice plants constitutively expressing ZmGF14-6 displayed enhanced tolerance to drought stress which was accompanied by a stronger induction of drought-associated rice genes. However, rice plants expressing ZmGF14-6 either in a constitutive or under a pathogen-inducible regime showed a higher susceptibility to infection by the fungal pathogens Fusarium verticillioides and Magnaporthe oryzae. Under infection conditions, a lower intensity in the expression of defence-related genes occurred in ZmGF14-6 rice plants. These findings support that ZmGF14-6 positively regulates drought tolerance in transgenic rice while negatively modulating the plant defence response to pathogen infection. Transient expression assays of fluorescently labelled ZmGF14-6 protein in onion epidermal cells revealed a widespread distribution of ZmGF14-6 in the cytoplasm and nucleus. Additionally, colocalization experiments of fluorescently labelled ZmGF14-6 with organelle markers, in combination with cell labelling with the endocytic tracer FM4-64, revealed a subcellular localization of ZmGF14-6 in the early endosomes. Taken together, these results improve our understanding of the role of ZmGF14-6 in stress signalling pathways, while indicating that ZmGF14-6 inversely regulates the plant response to biotic and abiotic stresses.
22016607	The synthesis of II-VI semiconductor nanoparticles obtained by the thermolysis of certain group 12 metal complexes as precursors is reported. Thermogravimetric analysis of the single source precursors showed sharp decomposition leading to their respective metal sulfides. The structural and optical properties of the prepared nanoparticles were characterized by means of X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) UV-Vis and photoluminescence spectroscopy. The X-ray diffraction pattern showed that the prepared ZnS nanoparticles have a cubic sphalerite structure; the CdS indicates a hexagonal phase and the HgS show the presence of metacinnabar phase. The TEM image demonstrates that the ZnS nanoparticles are dot-shaped, the CdS and the HgS clearly showed a rice and spherical morphology respectively. The UV-Vis spectra exhibited a blue-shift with respect to that of the bulk samples which is attributed to the quantum size effect. The band gap of the samples have been calculated from absorption spectra and werefound to be about 4.33 eV (286 nm), 2.91 eV (426 nm) and 4.27 eV (290 nm) for the ZnS, CdS and HgS samples respectively.
22016714	A geostatistical method was developed to examine the correlation, or lack of it, between the levels of cadmium (Cd) detected in farm soils and those detected in the human specimens collected from residents around the contaminated areas in Changhua County where cadmium contamination of staple rice has been documented. We used the Taiwan EPA environment data in 2002 and human data which were generated by the National Health Research Institutes during 2003-2005. Kriging interpolation methods were used to determine soil Cd concentrations. A Zonal statistical function was performed to assess the individual exposure. Soil Cd levels and tissue Cd levels in residents were analyzed for contamination hotspots and other areas to determine correlation between the two variables. Three Cd contamination hotspots were identified, in which no correlation was found between soil Cd levels and tissue Cd levels in residents. Our results demonstrate how GIS spatial modeling technique can be used to estimate distribution of pollutants in an area using a limited number of data points. Results indicated no association between the soil contamination and the exposure of residents to Cd, suggesting that both the soils and the residents are receptors of Cd as a pollutant from as yet unidentified sources.
22016862	The availability of genomic sequences provided new opportunities to decipher how plant genomes evolve. One recent discovery about plant genomes is the abundance of Pack-MULEs, a special group of transposable elements that duplicate, amplify and recombine gene fragments in many species at a very large scale. Despite the widespread occurrence of Pack-MULEs, their function remains an enigma. Our analysis using maize, rice and Arabidopsis genomic sequences indicates that the acquisition of genic sequences by Pack-MULEs is not random. Pack-MULEs in grasses specifically acquire and amplify GC-rich gene fragments. The resulting GC-rich elements have the ability to form independent transcripts with negative GC gradient, which refers to the decline of GC content along the orientation of transcription of genes. In other cases, Pack-MULEs insert near the 5' region of "normal" genes, and consequently form additional 5' exons or replace the original 5' exon of genes. In this manner, Pack-MULEs raise the GC content of the 5' termini of genes, modify the gene structure and contribute to the increased number of genes with negative GC gradient in grasses. The possible consequence of such activity is discussed.
22017194	Although the genetic mechanism of submergence survival for rice varieties containing the SUB1A gene has been elucidated, the downstream metabolic effects have not yet been evaluated. In this study, the metabolomes of Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv. M202 and cv. M202(Sub1) were profiled using (1)H NMR spectroscopy to compare the metabolic effect of submergence stress and recovery on rice in the presence or absence of SUB1A. Significant changes were observed in the NMR resonances of compounds in pathways important for carbohydrate metabolism. The presence of SUB1A in M202(Sub1) was correlated with suppression of carbohydrate metabolism in shoot tissue, consistent with the role of SUB1A in limiting starch catabolism to fuel elongation growth. The absence of SUB1A in M202 was correlated with greater consumption of sucrose stores and accumulation of amino acids that are synthesized from glycolysis intermediates and pyruvate. Under submergence conditions, alanine, a product of pyruvate metabolism, showed the largest difference between the two varieties, but elevated levels of glutamine, glutamate, leucine, isoleucine, threonine, and valine were also higher in M202 compared with the M202(Sub1) variety. The identification and characterization of alanylglycine (AlaGly) in rice is also reported. After 3 days of submergence stress, AlaGly levels decreased significantly in both genotypes but did not recover within 1 day of desubmergence with the other metabolites evaluated. The influence of SUB1A on dynamic changes in the metabolome during complete submergence provides new insights into the functional roles of a single gene in invoking a quiescence strategy that helps stabilize crop production in submergence-prone fields.
22017658	Inoculant plant-growth-promoting bacteria are emerging as an important component of sustainable agriculture. There is a need to develop inexpensive methods for enumerating these organisms after their application in the field, to better understand their survival and impacts on yields. Immunoblotting is one potential method to measure viable cells, but the high cost of the conventionally used nylon membranes makes this method prohibitive. In this study, less expensive alternative materials such as filter papers, glossy photo papers, and transparencies for the purpose of colony immunoblotting were evaluated and the best substance was chosen for further studies. Whatman filter paper No. 541 combined with a 0.01 mol·L(-1) H(2)SO(4) rinsing step gave similar results to nylon membranes but <20% of the overall cost of the original colony immunoblotting assay. The application of the modified immunoblot method was tested on nonsterile clay soil samples that were spiked with high numbers (>10(7) CFU·g(-1)) of the plant-growth-promoting bacteria Pseudomonas fluorescens , Azospirillum brasilense , or Rhizobium leguminosarum . The modified protocol allowed the identification and recovery of over 50% of the inoculated cells of all three strains, amidst a background of the native soil microflora. Subsequently, the survival of P. fluorescens was successfully monitored for several months after application to field-grown rice at Jerilderie, New South Wales, Australia, thus validating the procedure.
22017748	Spot blotch of wheat caused by Bipolaris sorokiniana is an important disease of wheat, especially in slightly warm (25 ± 1 °C) and humid weather conditions. A quick and reliable PCR-based diagnostic assay has been developed to detect B. sorokiniana using a pathogen-specific marker derived from genomic DNA. A PCR-amplified band of 650 bp obtained in B. sorokiniana isolates using universal rice primer (URP 1F) was cloned in pGEMT easy vector and sequenced. Based on sequences, six primers were designed, out of which a primer pair RABSF1 (GGTCCGAGACAACCAACAA) and RABSR2 (AAAGAAAGCGGTCGACGTAA) amplified a sequence of 600 bp in B. sorokiniana isolates. The specificity of the marker when tested against 40 isolates of B. sorokiniana, seven isolates of other species of Bipolaris, and 27 isolates of other pathogens infecting wheat and other crops showed a specific band of 600 bp only in B. sorokiniana. The detection limit was 50 pg of genomic DNA. The marker could detect the pathogen in soil and wheat leaves at presymptomatic stage. This sequence characterized amplified region (SCAR) marker designated as SCRABS(600) could clearly distinguish B. sorokiniana from other fungal plant pathogens, including Bipolaris spp. The utilization of this diagnostic PCR assay in analysis of field soil and wheat leaves will play a key role in effective management of the disease.
22017863	To investigate the food intake of Slovenian adolescents and to compare it with food-based dietary guidelines developed for children and adolescents, named the Optimized Mixed Diet (OMD). The OMD is a useful tool for the evaluation of food intake of adolescents. All adolescents completed an FFQ at a regional health centre; a subgroup also completed a 3 d weighed dietary protocol at home. This study is a part of the first national representative study on the dietary habits of Slovenian adolescents. This cross-sectional study included a representative sample of 2813 Slovenian adolescents entering high school, aged 14-17 years, from all ten geographical regions of Slovenia. The greatest deviations from the recommended intakes of the main food groups in the OMD were significantly lower intakes of (P < 0·001, mean): vegetables (179 and 163 g/d in boys and girls, respectively), bread/cereals (271 and 226 g/d), potatoes/rice/pasta (212 and 163 g/d); in boys also a significantly lower intake of fruits (mean: 321 g/d, P < 0·001) and a significantly higher intake of meat/meat products (mean: 126 g/d, P < 0·001). Additionally, the results show too high intake of sugar-sweetened beverages and too low intakes of fish and plant oils in both genders. The food intake pattern of Slovenian adolescents deviates markedly from a healthy eating pattern. Nutrition education and interventions are needed for Slovenian adolescents.
22019571	Green rice leafhoppers (Nephotettix cincticeps) secrete watery and coagulable saliva in the feeding process. In our study, the watery salivary secretion was concentrated by ultrafiltration from "fed diet" and subjected to SDS-PAGE. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of the most predominant band at 84 kDa (designated NcSP84) was analyzed by Edman degradation. This sequence was completely consistent with the most abundant protein in the salivary gland extracts, which was separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Based on the N-terminal amino acid sequence, the complete cDNA of this protein was cloned by 5'- and 3'-RACE using degenerate primers. The deduced NcSP84 contained an open reading frame of 2061 bp encoding a putative 687 amino acids with a putative signal sequence composed of 19 amino acids. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of NcSP84 did not share statistically significant homology with any sequences in public databases. Motif search predicted that this protein had EF-hands, the most common motif found in Ca(2+) -binding proteins. As predicted, NcSP84 exhibited Ca(2+)-binding activity. The SDS-PAGE mobility of purified NcSP84 bound to Ca(2+) tended to decline discretely, depending on the concentration of CaCl(2) with which it was mixed for 1h before adding SDS buffer. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed that the NcSP84 gene and gene product were expressed and stored in type III cells, which are the largest lobes in the primary salivary glands. The NcSP84 protein was detected in the phloem sap of rice exposed to leafhoppers, verifying that the NcSP84 protein was injected into the sieve tubes. These results suggest that NcSP84 could be secreted into the sieve tubes during feeding, which might bind Ca(2+) ions that flow into sieve tubes in response to stylet puncturing. This might suppress sieve-element clogging and facilitate continuous ingestion from sieve tubes.
22019635	The plant cuticle, a cutin matrix embedded with and covered by wax, seals the aerial organ's surface to protect the plant against uncontrolled water loss. The cutin matrix is essential for the cuticle to function as a barrier to water loss. Recently, we identified from wild barley a drought supersensitive mutant, eibi1, which is caused by a defective cutin matrix as the result of the loss of function of HvABCG31, an ABCG full transporter. Here, we report that eibi1 epidermal cells contain lipid-like droplets, which are supposed to consist of cutin monomers that have not been transported out of the cells. The eibi1 cuticle is fragile due to a defective cutin matrix. The rice ortholog of the EIBI1 gene has a similar pattern of expression, young shoot but not flag leaf blade, as the barley gene. The model of the function of Eibi1 is discussed. The HvABCG31 full transporter functions in the export of cutin components and contributed to land plant colonization, hence also to terrestrial life evolution.
22019783	Increasing crop yield is one of the most important goals of plant science research. Grain size is a major determinant of grain yield in cereals and is a target trait for both domestication and artificial breeding(1). We showed that the quantitative trait locus (QTL) GS5 in rice controls grain size by regulating grain width, filling and weight. GS5 encodes a putative serine carboxypeptidase and functions as a positive regulator of grain size, such that higher expression of GS5 is correlated with larger grain size. Sequencing of the promoter region in 51 rice accessions from a wide geographic range identified three haplotypes that seem to be associated with grain width. The results suggest that natural variation in GS5 contributes to grain size diversity in rice and may be useful in improving yield in rice and, potentially, other crops(2).
22019974	The aim of this study was to determine whether the risk and severity of penetration-aspiration with mixed consistency (MIX), which consists of cooked rice and thin liquid barium (LIQUID), are different from the risks and severities with each single consistency (cooked rice or LIQUID) in dysphagic patients. Dysphagic patients (N = 29) performed a videofluoroscopic swallowing study with the following foods: cooked rice, LIQUID, and MIX. Several components were analyzed using recorded videotapes. The Penetration-Aspiration Scale score for MIX was significantly lower than that for LIQUID (P < 0.016). The location of the leading edge at the onset of a pharyngeal swallow between MIX and LIQUID was not different (P = 0.705). The pharyngeal delay time of LIQUID was delayed significantly compared with that of MIX (0.142 ± 0.267 and -0.149 ± 0.096 sec, respectively, P < 0.016). The severity of pharyngeal residue among the foods was different according to the location. Swallowing of MIX is not dangerous, and it is safer for not inducing penetration-aspiration as compared with the swallowing of LIQUID. The risk of penetration-aspiration may be judged depending on not only a food's consistency but also on various factors that affect airway protection, including the texture of food.
22020099	GDP dissociation inhibitor (GDI) plays an essential role in regulating the state of bound nucleotides and subcellular localizations of Rab proteins. In our previous study, we showed that OsGDI3 facilitates the recycling of OsRab11 with a help of OsGAP1. In this study, we show that OsGDI3 complement the yeast sec19-1 mutant, a temperature-sensitive allele of the yeast GDI gene, suggesting that OsGDI3 is a functional ortholog of yeast GDI. To obtain further knowledge on the function of OsGDI3, candidate OsGDI3-interacting proteins were identified by yeast two-hybrid screens. OsMAPK2 is one of OsGDI3 interacting proteins from yeast two-hybrid screens and subject to further analysis. A kinase assay showed that the autophosphorylation activity of OsMAPK2 is inhibited by OsGDI3 in vitro. In addition, ectopic expressions of OsGDI3-in Arabidopsis cause reductions at the level of phosphorylated AtMPK in phosphorylation activity. Taken together, OsGDI3 functions as a negative regulator of OsMAPK2 through modulating its kinase activity.
22020279	Plants and animals are obligate aerobes, requiring oxygen for mitochondrial respiration and energy production. In plants, an unanticipated decline in oxygen availability (hypoxia), as caused by roots becoming waterlogged or foliage submergence, triggers changes in gene transcription and messenger RNA translation that promote anaerobic metabolism and thus sustain substrate-level ATP production. In contrast to animals, oxygen sensing has not been ascribed to a mechanism of gene regulation in response to oxygen deprivation in plants. Here we show that the N-end rule pathway of targeted proteolysis acts as a homeostatic sensor of severe low oxygen levels in Arabidopsis, through its regulation of key hypoxia-response transcription factors. We found that plants lacking components of the N-end rule pathway constitutively express core hypoxia-response genes and are more tolerant of hypoxic stress. We identify the hypoxia-associated ethylene response factor group VII transcription factors of Arabidopsis as substrates of this pathway. Regulation of these proteins by the N-end rule pathway occurs through a characteristic conserved motif at the amino terminus initiating with Met-Cys. Enhanced stability of one of these proteins, HRE2, under low oxygen conditions improves hypoxia survival and reveals a molecular mechanism for oxygen sensing in plants via the evolutionarily conserved N-end rule pathway. SUB1A-1, a major determinant of submergence tolerance in rice, was shown not to be a substrate for the N-end rule pathway despite containing the N-terminal motif, indicating that it is uncoupled from N-end rule pathway regulation, and that enhanced stability may relate to the superior tolerance of Sub1 rice varieties to multiple abiotic stresses.
22021418	The Mediator (Med) complex relays regulatory information from DNA-bound transcription factors to the RNA polymerase II in eukaryotes. This macromolecular unit is composed of three core subcomplexes in addition to a separable kinase module. In this study, conservation of Meds has been investigated in 16 plant species representing seven diverse groups across the plant kingdom. Using Hidden Markov Model-based conserved motif searches, we have identified all the known yeast/metazoan Med components in one or more plant groups, including the Med26 subunits, which have not been reported so far for any plant species. We also detected orthologs for the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Med32, -33, -34, -35, -36, and -37 in all the plant groups, and in silico analysis identified the Med32 and Med33 subunits as apparent orthologs of yeast/metazoan Med2/29 and Med5/24, respectively. Consequently, the plant Med complex appears to be composed of one or more members of 34 subunits, as opposed to 25 and 30 members in yeast and metazoans, respectively. Despite low similarity in primary Med sequences between the plants and their fungal/metazoan partners, secondary structure modeling of these proteins revealed a remarkable similarity between them, supporting the conservation of Med organization across kingdoms. Phylogenetic analysis between plant, human, and yeast revealed single clade relatedness for 29 Med genes families in plants, plant Meds being closer to human than to yeast counterparts. Expression profiling of rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis Med genes reveals that Meds not only act as a basal regulator of gene expression but may also have specific roles in plant development and under abiotic stress conditions.
22021420	A controlled flow of porphyrin metabolites is critical for organisms, but little is known about the control of porphyrin biosynthesis under environmental stress. We monitored transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants expressing Myxococcus xanthus protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPO) for their response to drought stress. Transgenic plants showed significantly improved drought tolerance, as indicated by a higher shoot water potential, less oxidative damage, and a more favorable redox balance compared with wild-type plants. Both transgenic and wild-type plants responded to the onset of drought stress, even prior to changes in shoot water potential and oxidative metabolism, by drastically scavenging porphyrin intermediates in leaves, which was crucial for alleviating reactive oxygen species-induced stress. Protoporphyrin IX, protochlorophyllide, magnesium-protoporphyrin IX, and its methyl ester were absent or hardly detected with the intensification of water stress (-3.1 MPa) in the wild type, whereas transgenic plants retained these intermediates to some extent. Additionally, the expression and activity of most enzymes involved in porphyrin biosynthesis, particularly in the chlorophyll branch, were primarily down-regulated under dehydrating conditions, with stronger repression in the wild type than in transgenic plants. There was up-regulation of Glutamate 1-Semialdehyde Aminotransferase, PPO1, and Fe Chelatase2 transcripts in drought-stressed transgenic plants, enabling the transgenic plants to make larger pools of 5-aminolevulinic acid and protoporphyrin IX available for subsequent steps in the heme branch. Overexpression of PPO ultimately protected the transgenic plants from drought-induced cytotoxicity, demonstrating clearly that manipulation of porphyrin biosynthesis can produce drought-tolerant plants. Our results support a possible role for tetrapyrroles in signaling their metabolic state and in plant protection under drought stress conditions.
22022668	In response to a large number of cases of gastroenteritis reporting to Sulyyel hospital, an outbreak investigation was conducted to identify its source, to assess its extent and to make recommendations on the prevention of such outbreaks in the future. A CASE WAS DEFINED AS ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO DEVELOPED DIARRHEA WITH ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS: Abdominal pain, fever or vomiting within three days of eating at the wedding ceremony. A retrospective cohort study was conducted to identify food items and circumstances responsible for this outbreak. A total of 283 individuals were interviewed, 88 of whom developed gastroenteritis, most commonly manifested by diarrhea (100%), abdominal pain (94.3%) and fever (86.4%). The majority of persons interviewed were Saudis (89.1%) and 21.6% were males. The median incubation period was 20.6 ± 2.77 hours and the epidemic curve suggested a common point source outbreak. Out of 9 food items and drinks served at the wedding ceremony, 3 food items were significantly associated with illness: meat ranked first (RR=16.7, 95% CI=2.37-115.8), followed by rice (RR=13.6 95% CI=1.95-93.61), and restaurant made sweets (RR=1.9, 95% CI=1.35-2.58). Out of 62 stool samples collected from cases, 40 (64.5 %) grew Salmonella group C non-typhoid. Salmonella was considered the causative agent of this food-borne outbreak. Meat and rice served at the wedding party were the food items incriminated. Time, temperature misuse, inadequate heat treatment, and unhygienic handling were the most important factors causing this outbreak.
2202279	Sixty rice rats (Oryzomys palustris) were divided by littermate into 3 groups of 20 each. The 3 groups received either SnF2 (1000 parts/10(6) F), NaF (1000 parts/10(6] or double-distilled water (control). Test solutions were topically applied to molar teeth, twice daily, for 7 days. All rats were also provided with double-distilled drinking water and diet 2000 ad libitum. Experiments ended after 9 weeks. Alveolar bone loss, root and coronal caries were recorded and scored. SnF2 significantly reduced bone loss (p less than 0.05), but NaF did not. Root caries was significantly different in all 3 groups (p less than 0.05). SnF2 and NaF both reduced coronal caries significantly (p less than 0.05) in comparison to the control. However, the fluoride groups were not significantly different from each other. SnF2 may influence root caries via remineralization and an antimicrobial effect of the stannous ion.
22023205	The colon and rectum are the parts of digestive system of human beings. Cancer affecting either of these organs may be called colorectal cancers. Conventional cancer chemotherapy is not very effective for treatment of colorectal cancer, as the drug molecule does not reach the target site at therapeutic concentration, on the other side they produces sever systemic toxic effect. Aim of this study was to develop a novel colon targeted Assam Bora rice starch compression coated tablet for site specific delivery of 5-FU to the colon without the drug being released in stomach or small intestine. Core tablet of 5-FU was prepared using microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) and spray dried lactose by direct compression method. The in vitro drug release study in different physiological environment confirmed insignificant release of 5-FU in physiological condition of stomach and small intestine further fast and major drug release in caecal content. In vivo drug absorption of optimized formulation was performed in order to establish its targeting potential in colon. It is concluded from the present study that Assam Bora rice starch can be used as a drug carrier for an effective colon targeted delivery system for drugs effective against the large intestine resident disease condition.
22023563	The purpose of this study was to explore the eating patterns of older Taiwanese adults. The number of older adults in Taiwan is increasing and they have been shown to have poor nutritional status. However, little attention has been directed at uncovering eating patterns among this population as part of their aging process. To explore older Taiwanese adults' eating patterns, a qualitative research design was chosen. Eating patterns of older Taiwanese adults were explored in narrative interviews conducted from April-June 2007. Of the 156 participants who participated in a larger correlational, cross-sectional study, 58 agreed to answer one open-ended question about their eating patterns. All interviews were tape-recorded, transcribed verbatim and analysed using qualitative content analysis. Analysis of interview data identified three major categories: 'eating and old age', 'eating and faith' and 'eating and family harmony'. Subcategories in each major category included 'achieving good health', 'upholding old customs'; 'depending on God/fate', 'enjoying later life'; and 'following the family eating rules', 'self-sacrificing for the family', respectively. Older Taiwanese people adopt eating patterns not only for health reasons, but also in keeping with their faith and the need to preserve family harmony. This research supports and contributes to understanding the eating patterns of older adults in Taiwan. Disseminating these findings may increase nurses' awareness of nutrition issues in older adults. Older Taiwanese adults' eating patterns centred on family values. Nursing intervention programmes, therefore, should address key family members involved in food preparation. Our findings also suggest that older adults followed old customs in their eating practices. Nurses are suggested to acknowledge and respect these customs as special food needs of older adults.
22023738	Targeted delivery drugs by nanoparticles and aptamers is a hot issue; however, the application to ameliorate toxicity of toxicants is unknown, and the information about nanoparticle-aptamer toxicology and pharmacology is limited. In this work, nanoparticle-aptamer was synthesized and then its toxicological and pharmacological information was studied. Mercury was selected as a model toxicant and the antidote was entrapped by nanoparticle-aptamer. The nanoparticle-aptamer with a suitable size of 120 nm avoided aptamer biodegradation and achieved an effective release of antidote. Rats were orally administered mercury-contaminated rice and then nanoparticle-aptamer was intravenously injected. The nanoparticle-aptamer markedly reduced the quantity of mercury in both the brain and kidney, and enhanced the excretion of urinary mercury. Water Maze and Open Field tests showed that nanoparticle-aptamer ameliorated the neurotoxicity and improved the learning and memory of rats. The pharmacology of nanoparticle-aptamer involved slow antidote release, antidote-toxicant antagonism, enhancement of crucial enzymes activity and decreased lipid peroxidation. Toxicology of nanoparticle-aptamer was also studied by hematologic tests (creatinine, urea, red and white blood cell), and exhibited little toxicity. Nanoparticle-aptamer can diminish the toxicity of mercury in vivo with few adverse effects, and is a potential tool in reducing the hazards of toxicants to human health.
22024493	Studies suggested the intake of Cd from diet can be approximately equivalent to that from smoking. Moreover, a mutual metabolic influence between Cd and nutrients has been reported. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between blood cadmium concentration (BCdC) and food consumption, nutrients intake (Ca, Fe, Zn, vitamin C, and vitamin D), tobacco smoking, and some other variables (age, body mass index, and residence) in 243 adults living in the Italian island of Sardinia (Sassari Province). Specifically, we hypothesized that offal consumption contributes to Cd intakes and blood levels. The BCdC was quantified by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry, and information on personal data was collected through questionnaires. Smoke significantly contributed to the BCdC (P < .001). Nonsmoker subjects who eat offal showed significantly higher BCdC (P = .04). Moreover, slightly higher BCdCs were also observed in nonsmoker subjects who eat rice, fish, and bread. The BCdC positively correlated with age of subjects (r = 0.144; P = .025) and offal daily intake in nonsmokers (r = 0.393; P < .001). The intake of Ca was negatively correlated (r = -0.281; P = .001) with the BCdC in females. The multiple linear regression analysis showed smoking > consumption of offal > body mass index ≈ age as the most important risk factors for the BCdC in the selected population.
22024734	Monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR), an important enzyme of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle, is involved in salt tolerance of plants through scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, a cDNA encoding MDHAR from the mangrove plant Acanthus ebracteatus was introduced into rice to examine its role in salt tolerance. Three stable transgenic lines (MT22, MT24 and MT25) overexpressing AeMDHAR were selected in vitro using hygromycin and confirmed by PCR, quantitative reverse-transcription (qRT) PCR and enzyme assay. The transgenic line MT24 was predicted to possess a single copy of the transgene while the other two transgenic lines were predicted to have multiple transgene integrations. The AeMDHAR transcripts were detected only in transgenic rice lines but not in untransformed rice. The abundance of AeMDHAR transcripts in transgenic lines MT22 and MT25 was approximately 2.75 times the amount found in MT24. The transgenic rice lines overexpressing AeMDHAR showed a significant increase in MDHAR enzyme activity compared to untransformed plants under both NaCl and control conditions. All transgenic lines showed better yield attributes such as a higher tiller number and increased 1000-grain weight compared to non-transgenics. They also showed tolerance to salt at germination and seedling stages. The transgenic line MT24, which harbors a single copy of AeMDHAR, displayed a lower rate of sterility, a higher number of tillers and longer panicle compared to untransformed plants when subjected to salt stress.
22024957	Bioassay-guided fractionation of the diethyl ether fraction of a water extract of Picea schrenkiana needles led to the isolation of the phenolic compound 3,4-dihydroxy- acetophenone (DHAP). The allelopathic effects of DHAP were evaluated under laboratory conditions on P. schrenkiana, rice (Oryza sativa L.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), radish (Raphanus sativus L.), lettuce (Latuca sativa L.), cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) and mung bean (Phaseolus radiatus L.). DHAP significantly inhibited seed germination and seedling growth of P. schrenkiana at concentrations of 2.5 mM and 0.5 mM (p < 0.05). Soil analysis revealed that P. schrenkiana forest soils contained exceptionally high DHAP concentrations (mean = 0.51 ± 0.03 mg/g dry soil), sufﬁcient to inhibit natural P. schrenkiana recruitment. DHAP also exhibited strong allelopathic potential. It significantly inhibited wheat and lettuce seed germination at concentrations of 1 mM and 0.5 mM (p < 0.05). The active compound also completely inhibited root growth of the six test species at high concentrations. Our results suggest a dual role of DHAP, both as an allelochemical and as an autotoxicant. The potential for a single plant needle-leached compound to inﬂuence both inter- and intra-speciﬁc interactions emphasized the complex effects that plant secondary metabolites might have on plant population and community structure.
22025450	Next generation Sequencing (NGS) provides a powerful tool for discovery of domestication genes in crop plants and their wild relatives. The accelerated domestication of new plant species as crops may be facilitated by this knowledge. Re-sequencing of domesticated genotypes can identify regions of low diversity associated with domestication. Species-specific data can be obtained from related wild species by whole-genome shot-gun sequencing. This sequence data can be used to design species specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers. Sequencing of the products of PCR amplification of target genes can be used to explore genetic variation in large numbers of genes and gene families. Novel allelic variation in close or distant relatives can be characterized by NGS. Examples of recent applications of NGS to capture of genetic diversity for crop improvement include rice, sugarcane and Eucalypts. Populations of large numbers of individuals can be screened rapidly. NGS supports the rapid domestication of new plant species and the efficient identification and capture of novel genetic variation from related species.
22026389	We investigated in total 80 wine samples of different types and seven grape juice and 23 beer samples purchased from markets in Central Europe in order to understand the arsenic (As) speciation and help assess the potential As toxicity via intake of alcoholic beverages. Generally, total As concentrations in most samples investigated were below the drinking water limit 10 µg l(-1) published by the World Health Organization (WHO); ranging from 0.46 to 21.0 µg l(-1) As in red and white wines and from 0.75 to 13.4 µg l(-1) As in beers. In addition, concentrations of total As in rice wine and in rice beer were 0.63-6.07 and 3.69-8.23 µg l(-1) As, respectively. The total As concentrations in ice wine ranged from 7.94 to 18.8 µg l(-1) As, significantly higher than in white and red wine. Arsenite predominated as the As species in most of the wine samples, whereas arsenate was the dominant species in rice wine, beer and rice beer. Methyl As components were usually minor components in all wine and beer samples. Monomethylarsonic acid, dimethylarsinic acid and two additional unknown As species were frequently found in grape juice, late harvest and ice wine with higher sweetness. After air exposure, arsenite, arsenate, monomethylarsonic acid and dimethylarsinic acid were stable at 4°C for months, probably due to the acidic conditions of wine and beer samples. The presence of sulfite had little influence on As speciation in wine. Despite the predominance of more toxic arsenite and arsenate in wine and beer, the estimated weekly exposure to As (via consumption of beer, wine and rice wine) is low. The As intake per capita is 6.81 µg from beer, <1.93 µg from wine and 0.88 µg from rice wine, estimated using the median of total As concentration multiplied by the average consumption per capita of the corresponding beverage.
22026500	Organism-dependent biogenic quartz formation in the steady-state environment is a phenomenon that can address the global environmental issues such as diagenetic evolution, biogeochemical cycling, and reservoir formation, but detailed studies have not been performed so far. Here, steady-state quartz formation is studied for amorphous silica of different biogenic origin on the basis of the recently established mechanistic model [Sato et al., J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 18131]. Amorphous silica originated from rice husks possesses angstrom-scale pores larger by 1.3 Å than those originated from diatom algae. The slight difference of pore size dramatically reduces activation energies of water diffusion by 78% and reactions of water molecules at pore surfaces by 47%, resulting in the reduction of activation energy of biogenic quartz formation by 64%. The present findings evidence that angstrom-scale pores intrinsically residing in the amorphous matrix are the organism-dependent origin of steady-state biogenic quartz formation.
22027003	The AT-hook motif is a small DNA-binding protein motif that has been found in the high mobility group of non-histone chromosomal proteins. The Arabidopsis genome contains 29 genes encoding the AT-hook motif DNA-binding protein (AHL). Recent studies of Arabidopsis genes (AtAHLs) have revealed that they might play diverse functional roles during plant growth and development. In this report, we mined 20 AHL genes (OsAHLs) from the rice genome database using AtAHL genes as queries and characterized their molecular features. A phylogenetic tree revealed that OsAHL proteins can be classified into 2 evolutionary clades. Tissue expression pattern analysis revealed that all of the OsAHL genes might be functionally expressed genes with 3 distinct expression patterns. Nuclear localization analysis using transgenic Arabidopsis showed that several OsAHL proteins are exclusively localized in the nucleus, indicating that they may act as architectural transcription factors to regulate expression of their target genes during plant growth and development.
22027495	Long-term exposure to cadmium (Cd) causes renal dysfunction, but the change in renal function with exposure is unknown. We assessed the evolution of Cd-induced renal effects after a reduction in dietary exposure to Cd in rice. Four hundred twelve residents in previously Cd-polluted and nonpolluted areas were examined twice, in 1998 and in 2006. Changes in blood Cd, urinary Cd, and kidney function [N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase (NAG), β2-microglobulin, and albumin in urine] were measured. In the most polluted area, mean blood Cd was 8.9 μg/L and 3.3 μg/L in 1998 and in 2006, respectively, and urinary Cd was 11.6 and 9.0 μg/g creatinine. Urinary albumin in 1998 increased with urinary Cd, but no such exposure-response relation appeared for 2006 albumin versus urinary Cd 1998, indicating recovery. Other biomarkers of kidney function were also elevated in 1998. Partial recovery was observed for NAG among women and was suggested for β2-microglobulin among young individuals. The probability of having β2-microglobulin levels above the 95th percentile in 2006 was high in those with elevated β2-microglobulin in 1998 [odds ratio (OR) = 24.8; 95% confidence interval (CI): 11.2, 55.3] compared with albumin (OR = 3.0; 95% CI: 1.2, 7.5) and NAG (OR = 2.6; 95% CI: 1.6, 4.4). Results suggest that a Cd-mediated increase in urinary albumin excretion is reversible upon substantial reduction of exposure. For markers of tubular effects, we observed a tendency toward improvement but not complete recovery. Data from repeated observations suggest that β2-microglobulin may be more informative than NAG as an indicator for an individual's future tubular function.
22028702	Meiosis is a specialised type of cell division in sexually reproducing organisms that generates genetic diversity and prevents chromosome doubling in successive generations. The last decade has seen forward and reverse genetic approaches identifying many genes in the plant kingdom which highlight similarities and differences in the mechanics of meiosis between taxonomic kingdoms. We present here a high throughput in silico analysis, using bread wheat and rice, which has generated a list of 129 transcripts containing genes with meiotic roles and some which are currently unknown.
22028874	Wheat is one of the world's most important crops and is characterized by a large polyploid genome. One way to reduce genome complexity is to isolate single chromosomes using flow cytometry. Low coverage DNA sequencing can provide a snapshot of individual chromosomes, allowing a fast characterization of their main features and comparison with other genomes. We used massively parallel 454 pyrosequencing to obtain a 2x coverage of wheat chromosome 5A. The resulting sequence assembly was used to identify TEs, genes and miRNAs, as well as to infer a virtual gene order based on the synteny with other grass genomes. Repetitive elements account for more than 75% of the genome. Gene content was estimated considering non-redundant reads showing at least one match to ESTs or proteins. The results indicate that the coding fraction represents 1.08% and 1.3% of the short and long arm respectively, projecting the number of genes of the whole chromosome to approximately 5,000. 195 candidate miRNA precursors belonging to 16 miRNA families were identified. The 5A genes were used to search for syntenic relationships between grass genomes. The short arm is closely related to Brachypodium chromosome 4, sorghum chromosome 8 and rice chromosome 12; the long arm to regions of Brachypodium chromosomes 4 and 1, sorghum chromosomes 1 and 2 and rice chromosomes 9 and 3. From these similarities it was possible to infer the virtual gene order of 392 (5AS) and 1,480 (5AL) genes of chromosome 5A, which was compared to, and found to be largely congruent with the available physical map of this chromosome.
22031046	To evaluate the influence of maternal smoking on antioxidative capacity and intensity of oxidative damage in breast milk. The study group (n=30) was comprised of postpartum women who declared smoking more than five cigarettes per day during pregnancy and lactation (confirmed by the urinalysis of cotinine concentration), and their newborns. Control group included 29 non-smoking postpartum women and their newborns. Colostrum samples were collected on the 3rd day after delivery and breast milk samples between the 30th and the 32nd day after delivery. Morning maternal and neonatal urine samples were obtained on the day of the mature milk sampling. Isoprostane concentrations in colostrum/mature milk and urine were determined immunoenzymatically. Total Antioxidant Status (TAS) of colostrum/breast milk was determined by Rice-Evans and Miller method. Colostrum TAS in smokers was significantly lower than in non-smokers (P=0.006). In both groups, the TAS of mature milk was higher compared with colostrum, but significant differences were observed amongst smokers only (P=0.001). In smokers the isoprostane concentration of mature milk was significantly higher than the colostrum concentration (P=0.001). Significant inverse correlation between maternal urinary isoprostane concentration and the TAS of mature breast milk was observed in smokers (R=-0.525, P=0.023), but not in non-smokers (R=0.161, P=0.422). This study revealed that maternal smoking triggers harmful effects on an infant by impairing pro-oxidant-antioxidant balance of breast milk.
22031067	A novel synthesis of triazolo[1,2-a]indazole-1,3,8-trione derivatives by reaction of urazole, dimedone and aromatic aldehydes under conventional heating and microwave irradiation and solvent-free conditions using silica nanoparticles prepared from rice husk ash as catalyst is described. The new method features high yields, multicomponent reactions and environmental friendliness.
22031551	Heavy metal (copper [Cu], zinc [Zn], and cadmium [Cd]) pollution of soils from pig manures in soil-rice (L.) systems under intensive farming was investigated, taking Nanhu, China, as the case study area. Two hundred pig manures and 154 rice straws, brown rice samples, and corresponding surface soil (0-15 cm) samples were collected in paddy fields from 150 farms in 16 major villages within the study area. The mean Cu and Zn concentrations in pig manures consistently exceeded the related standard. About 44 and 60% of soil samples exceed the Chinese Soil Cu and Cd Environmental Quality Standards, respectively. The concentration of Cu, Zn, and Cd in brown rice did not exceed the Chinese Food Hygiene Standard. There was a significant positive correlation between total Cu and Zn contents in soil and application rate of pig manures. Strong correlation was observed between the extractable Cu, Zn, and Cd in soil and the Cu, Zn, and Cd contents in the brown rice. The spatial distribution maps of Cu and Zn concentrations in brown rice, straw, and extractable soil Cu and Zn concentration also showed similar geographical trends. Further analyses on heavy metals loading flux and accumulation rates from pig manure applied suggested that Cu and Cd contents in soil currently have already exceeded the maximum permissible limit, and Zn, if still at current manure application rates, will reach the ceiling concentration limits in 9 yr. This study assists in understanding the risk of heavy metals accumulating from pig manure applications to agricultural soils.
22031554	Phytoremediation is an emerging technology for the detoxification and remediation of organic pollutants such as pentachlorophenol (PCP). To investigate the dissipation behavior of PCP in the aerobic-anaerobic interfaces established by the rhizosphere of rice (L.) root, a glasshouse experiment was conducted using a specially designed rhizobox. The possible biogeochemical mechanisms were also studied through illustration of the dynamic behavior of important electron acceptors and donors that are potentially involved in the reductive dechlorination and aerobic catabolism processes of PCP. The soil was spiked with 20 ± 0.25 and 45 ± 0.25 mg of PCP kg soil. Soil in the rhizobox was divided into five different compartments at various distances from the root surface. Maximum dissipation of PCP in planted soil was observed at 3-mm distance from the root zone as well as rapid changes in concentrations of sulfate, chloride, nitrate, and ammonium at the same distance from the root. In contrast, in the unplanted soil, no difference was observed in the PCP concentration with increasing distance. After 45 d, a significantly higher concentration of PCP was degraded in planted soil compared with unplanted soil. In the unplanted microcosms, about 45% of the initial PCP was lost at both low and high added rates, respectively. This was, proportionately, a significantly smaller percentage compared with the planted rhizosphere (an average of 66 and 64.5%, respectively). Moreover, the correlations of PCP dissipation with SO, NO, and Fe were significantly negative, while the correlations of PCP dissipation with NH, Fe, and Cl were significantly positive. This suggested the oxidization of soil constituents can inhibit aerobic catabolism of PCP by consuming O, and the reduction of soil constituents can inhibit anaerobic reductive dechlorination of PCP. Therefore, the significance of the rhizosphere in phytoremediation of chlorinated compounds such as PCP differs significantly between wetland and rainfed systems.
22031558	Soil organic matter (SOM) is essential for sustaining food production and maintaining ecosystem services and is a vital resource base for storing C and N. The impact of long-term use of synthetic fertilizer N on SOM, however, has been questioned recently. Here we tested the hypothesis that long-term application of N results in a decrease in SOM. We used data from 135 studies of 114 long-term experiments located at 100 sites throughout the world over time scales of decades under a range of land-management and climate regimes to quantify changes in soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil organic nitrogen (SON). Published data of a total of 917 and 580 observations for SOC and SON, respectively, from control (unfertilized or zero N) and N-fertilized treatments (synthetic, organic, and combination) were analyzed using the SAS mixed model and by meta-analysis. Results demonstrate declines of 7 to 16% in SOC and 7 to 11% in SON with no N amendments. In soils receiving synthetic fertilizer N, the rate of SOM loss decreased. The time-fertilizer response ratio, which is based on changes in the paired comparisons, showed average increases of 8 and 12% for SOC and SON, respectively, following the application of synthetic fertilizer N. Addition of organic matter (i.e., manure) increased SOM, on average, by 37%. When cropping systems fluctuated between flooding and drying, SOM decreased more than in continuous dryland or flooded systems. Flooded rice (L.) soils show net accumulations of SOC and SON. This work shows a general decline in SOM for all long-term sites, with and without synthetic fertilizer N. However, our analysis also demonstrates that in addition to its role in improving crop productivity, synthetic fertilizer N significantly reduces the rate at which SOM is declining in agricultural soils, worldwide.
22032083	This study has been conducted to determine the extent of genetic association between yield of Rice (Oryza sativa L.) and its components. The present experiment was carried out with 40 Rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes which were evaluated in a randomized block design with 3 replications during wet season of 2007 and 2008. Results showed that sufficient amount of variability was found in the entire gene pool for all traits studied. Higher magnitude of genotypic and phenotypic coefficients of variation was recorded for seed yield, harvest index, biological yield, number of spikelets per panicle, flag leaf length, plant height and number of tillers indicates that these characters are least influence by environment. High heritability coupled with high genetic advance as percent of mean was registered for seed yield, harvest index, number of spikelets per panicle, biological yield and flag leaf length, suggesting preponderance of additive gene action in the expression of these characters. Grain yield was significantly and positively associated with harvest index, number of tillers per hill, number of panicle per plant, panicle length, number of spikelet's per panicle and test weight at both genotypic and phenotypic levels. Path coefficient analysis revealed that harvest index, biological yield, number of tillers per hill, panicle length, number of spikelets per panicle, plant height and test weight had direct positive effect on seed yield, indicating these are the main contributors to yield. From this study it may be concluded that harvest index, number of tillers per hill, panicle length and number of spikelet per panicle and test weight are the most important characters that contributed directly to yield. Thus, these characters may serve selection criteria for improving genetic potential of rice.
22033653	A modified method for the analysis of monosultap residue in rice plant and environment was developed and validated. Monosultap residue dynamics and final residues in supervised field trials at GAP conditions were studied. At fortification levels of 0.05, 0.5 and 1 mg kg(-1), it was shown that recoveries ranged from 75.0% to 109.2% with RSDs of 1.2-5.1% (n = 5). The dissipation experiments showed the half-lives (T(1/2)) of monosultap in water, soil and rice plants were 1.1-1.9, 1.4-2.1 and 1.3-2.1 days, respectively. At pre-harvest intervals (PHI) of 21 and 30 days, monosultap residue were 0.01-0.06 mg kg(-1) in soil, 0.01-0.19 mg kg(-1) in rice plants, and 0.01-0.09 mg kg(-1) in husked rice.
22033728	Temporal variations of the ambient mixing ratio of greenhouse gas (CH(4) and N(2)O) in a riparian rice-based agro-ecosystem of tropical region were studied during 2005-2006 in coastal Odisha. The endeavour was made with the hypothesis that the ambient mixing ratio of CH(4) and N(2)O depends on the changes in the flux of CH(4) and N(2)O from the rice fields in the riparian rice ecosystems. A higher ambient mixing ratio of CH(4) was recorded during the tillering to grain filling stages of the rice crop, during both dry and wet seasons. The higher ambient mixing ratio of CH(4) during the wet season may attribute to the higher CH(4) emission from the rice field. The average mixing ratio of CH(4) was recorded as 1.84 ± 0.05 ppmv and 1.85 ± 0.06 ppmv during 2005 and 2006, respectively. The ambient CH(4) mixing ratio was recorded negatively correlated with the average ambient temperature. The N(2)O mixing ratio ranged from 261.57 to 399.44 ppbv with an average of 330.57 ppbv during 2005. However, the average mixing ratio of N(2)O was recorded as 318.83 ± 20.00 ppbv during 2006. The N(2)O mixing ratio was recorded to be negatively correlated with rainfall and average ambient temperature. Significant negative correlation (r = -0.209) of N(2)O with sunshine hours may attribute to the photochemical break down of N(2)O. The temporal variation of N(2)O flux from the rice field does not affect the ambient mixing ratio of N(2)O in the same way as in the case of the ambient mixing ratio of CH(4). However, the higher mixing ratio of N(2)O during the fallow period of the post monsoon period may attribute to the N(2)O flux from soil. Results indicate that intensively cultivated coastal ecosystems can be a major source of ambient greenhouse gas.
22033774	Apomixis results in the production of genetically uniform progeny, derived from the fertilization independent development (parthenogenesis) of an unreduced egg cell (apomeiosis). To identify genes involved in the apomeiosis, a comparative transcriptome analysis of differentially expressed genes during embryo sac (ES) development in a sexual Pennisetum glaucum (genotype 81A1) and its apomeiotic (aposporic) non-parthenogenetic interspecific hybrid (BC1GO) was investigated. BC1GO exhibited the partitioned apomeiosis component, whereby the second apomixis component viz., parthenogenesis was completely lacking. A total of 96 non-redundant transcripts were recovered using suppression subtractive hybridization and classified into 11 different categories according to their putative functions. Amongst the identified transcripts, many of them belonged to unknown function (40%) followed by those involved in protein metabolism, stress response, pollen/ovule/embryo development, and translation/protein modification process. A data search of transcriptional profiling in other apomictic species revealed that 75% of the differentially expressed transcripts have not been reported in previous studies. By macroarray analysis, we identified differential expression pattern of 96 transcripts, 45 (47%) of which showed ≥2-fold induction in apomeiotic BC1GO. Further, the obtained results were validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction to have a comparative expression profiling of eight selected up-regulated transcripts (≥2.5-fold) between BC1GO and 81A1 at different phases of ovule development. In silico mapping demonstrated that 13 transcripts were located onto rice chromosome 2, region syntenic with the apospory locus as reported in Brachiaria brizantha and Paspalum notatum. The expression patterns of these transcripts showed a significant difference at differentiating megaspore mother cell and gametogenesis stages thereby suggesting their involvement in floral development during apomeiotic (Panicum-type aposporous) ES development.
22033916	Red fruit (Pandanus conoideus Lam) is endemic plant of Papua, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. The price of its oil (red fruit oil, RFO) is 10-15 times higher than that of common vegetable oils; consequently, RFO is subjected to adulteration with lower price oils. Among common vegetable oils, canola oil (CaO) and rice bran oil (RBO) have similar fatty acid profiles to RFO as indicated by the score plot of principal component analysis; therefore, CaO and RBO are potential adulterants in RFO. To develop FTIR spectroscopy in combination with chemometrics of partial least square regression (PLSR) and discriminant analysis (DA) for authentication of RFO from CaO and RBO. The presence of CaO in RFO was better determined at frequency regions of 1200-1050 cm⁻¹; meanwhile, the combined frequency ranges of 1207-1078 and 1747-1600 cm⁻¹ were exploited for quantitative analysis of RBO with acceptable values of coefficient of determination (R²) and errors in calibration, prediction and during cross validation. DA based on Mahalanobis distance was able to discriminate between RFO and RFO adulterated with CaO and RBO. FTIR spectroscopy combined with PLSR and DA can be successfully used for quantification and classification of oil adulterants in RFO. The developed method is rapid and environmentally friendly and sample preparation is easy.
22034626	To improve our understanding of the organization and regulation of the wheat (Triticum aestivum) gene space, we established a transcription map of a wheat chromosome (3B) by hybridizing a newly developed wheat expression microarray with bacterial artificial chromosome pools from a new version of the 3B physical map as well as with cDNA probes derived from 15 RNA samples. Mapping data for almost 3,000 genes showed that the gene space spans the whole chromosome 3B with a 2-fold increase of gene density toward the telomeres due to an increase in the number of genes in islands. Comparative analyses with rice (Oryza sativa) and Brachypodium distachyon revealed that these gene islands are composed mainly of genes likely originating from interchromosomal gene duplications. Gene Ontology and expression profile analyses for the 3,000 genes located along the chromosome revealed that the gene islands are enriched significantly in genes sharing the same function or expression profile, thereby suggesting that genes in islands acquired shared regulation during evolution. Only a small fraction of these clusters of cofunctional and coexpressed genes was conserved with rice and B. distachyon, indicating a recent origin. Finally, genes with the same expression profiles in remote islands (coregulation islands) were identified suggesting long-distance regulation of gene expression along the chromosomes in wheat.
22034874	Increasing awareness of limitations to natural resources has set high expectations for plant science to deliver efficient crops with increased yields, improved stress tolerance, and tailored composition. Collections of representative varieties are a valuable resource for compiling broad breeding germplasms that can satisfy these diverse needs. Here we show that the untargeted high-coverage metabolomic characterization of such core collections is a powerful approach for studying the molecular backgrounds of quality traits and for constructing predictive metabolome-trait models. We profiled the metabolic composition of kernels from field-grown plants of the rice diversity research set using 4 complementary analytical platforms. We found that the metabolite profiles were correlated with both the overall population structure and fine-grained genetic diversity. Multivariate regression analysis showed that 10 of the 17 studied quality traits could be predicted from the metabolic composition independently of the population structure. Furthermore, the model of amylose ratio could be validated using external varieties grown in an independent experiment. Our results demonstrate the utility of metabolomics for linking traits with quantitative molecular data. This opens up new opportunities for trait prediction and construction of tailored germplasms to support modern plant breeding.
22035218	Toxic aluminum enters the root cells rapidly, therefore internal detoxification is required. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process are poorly understood. Here we functionally characterized a rice gene, Os03g0755100 (OsALS1), that is regulated by ART1, a C2H2-type zinc finger transcription factor. OsALS1 encodes a half-size ABC transporter that is a member of the TAP (transporter associated with antigen processing) sub-group. Expression of OsALS1 was rapidly and specifically induced by Al in the roots, but not by other metals or low pH. OsALS1 was localized at all cells of the roots. Furthermore, OsALS1 is localized to the tonoplast. These expression patterns and cell specificity of localization are different from those of the homologous gene AtALS1 in Arabidopsis. Knockout of OsALS1 in three independent lines resulted in significant increased sensitivity to Al, but did not affect the sensitivity to other metals and low pH. Comparison of Al accumulation patterns between wild-type and osals1 mutants showed that there was no difference in Al levels in the cell sap of root tips between wild-type and the mutants, but the mutants accumulated more Al in the cytosol and nucleus than the wild-type. Expression of OsALS1 in yeast resulted in increased Al sensitivity due to mis-localization. These results indicate that OsALS1 localized at the tonoplast is responsible for sequestration of Al into the vacuoles, which is required for internal detoxification of Al in rice.
22036264	Irrigation with eutrophic water containing microcystins-LR (MC-LR) poses a potential risk to crops. However, the accumulation of MC-LR in rice grains and the mechanism of MC-LR-induced inhibition in rice roots are not understood. In this study, we detected the accumulation of MC-LR in rice grains collected from Taihu Lake region. MC-LR could accumulate in rice grains, but the risk evaluation suggested that MC-LR levels in rice grains from Taihu Lake region may not pose a threat to human health currently. In addition, MC-LR with low concentrations did not affect the growth of rice roots. However, MC-LR with high concentrations impeded the rice root morphogenesis by inhibiting root elongation, crown root formation, and lateral root development from primordia. Treatment with high concentrations of MC-LR stimulated the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and inhibited the production of nitric oxide (NO) in rice roots. Exogenous NO treatment reversed the inhibition of rice root growth under MC-LR stress. These results indicated that ROS and NO played important roles in the development of rice roots in responding to MC-LR stress.
22037248	An immunoaffinity column (IAC) was prepared with a new deoxynivalenol (DON) monoclonal antibody and used as a clean-up tool before ultra-high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) analysis of DON in cereals. The developed IAC clean-up method showed high recoveries for DON. They ranged from 61% to 103% in wheat, rice, and millet with intra-day and inter-day variations below 19% and 17%, respectively. The column capacity was 2.86μg DON per mL of gel, and it maintained above 0.68μg/mL of gel after 10 cycles of usage at 2 days intervals. The limit of detection (LOD) and limit of quantification (LOQ) were 0.3 and 0.8μg/kg, respectively. Twenty-one out of 40 analyzed commercial cereal samples were positive at DON concentrations from 7 to 534μg/kg.
22037288	Abiotic stresses such as drought and high salinity adversely affect the growth and productivity of plants, including crops. The development of stress-tolerant crops will be greatly advantageous for modern agriculture in areas that are prone to such stresses. In recent years, several advances have been made towards identifying potential stress related genes which are capable of increasing the tolerance of plants to abiotic stress. NAC proteins are plant-specific transcription factors and more than 100 NAC genes have been identified in Arabidopsis and rice to date. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that the six major groups were already established at least in an ancient moss lineage. NAC transcription factors have a variety of important functions not only in plant development but also in abiotic stress responses. Stress-inducible NAC genes have been shown to be involved in abiotic stress tolerance. Transgenic Arabidopsis and rice plants overexpressing stress-responsive NAC (SNAC) genes have exhibited improved drought tolerance. These studies indicate that SNAC factors have important roles for the control of abiotic stress tolerance and that their overexpression can improve stress tolerance via biotechnological approaches. Although these transcription factors can bind to the same core NAC recognition sequence, recent studies have demonstrated that the effects of NAC factors for growth are different. Moreover, the NAC proteins are capable of functioning as homo- or hetero-dimer forms. Thus, SNAC factors can be useful for improving stress tolerance in transgenic plants, although the mechanism for mediating the stress tolerance of these homologous factors is complex in plants. Recent studies also suggest that crosstalk may exist between stress responses and plant growth. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Plant gene regulation in response to abiotic stress.
22038091	Drought and salt stresses are major limiting factors for crop production. To identify critical genes for stress resistance in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we screened T-DNA mutants and identified a drought- and salt-hypersensitive mutant dsm3. The mutant phenotype was caused by a T-DNA insertion in a gene encoding a putative inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate 5/6-kinase previously named OsITPK2 with unknown function. Under drought stress conditions, the mutant had significantly less accumulation of osmolytes such as proline and soluble sugar and showed significantly reduced root volume, spikelet fertility, biomass, and grain yield; however, malondialdehyde level was increased in the mutant. Interestingly, overexpression of DSM3 (OsITPK2) in rice resulted in drought- and salt-hypersensitive phenotypes and physiological changes similar to those in the mutant. Inositol trisphosphate (IP3) level was decreased in the overexpressors under normal condition and drought stress. A few genes related to osmotic adjustment and reactive oxygen species scavenging were down-regulated in the mutant and overexpression lines. The expression level of DSM3 promoter-driven β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in rice was induced by drought, salt and abscisic acid. Protoplast transient expression assay indicated that DSM3 is an endoplasmic reticulum protein. Sequence analysis revealed six putative ITPKs in rice. Transcript level analysis of OsITPK genes revealed that they had different tempo-spatial expression patterns, and the responses of DSM3 to abiotic stresses, including drought, salinity, cold, and high temperature, were distinct from the other five members in rice. These results together suggest that DSM3/OsITPK2 is an important member of the OsITPK family for stress responses, and an optimal expression level is essential for drought and salt tolerance in rice.
22038093	Mini-chromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins form heterohexameric complex (MCM2-7) to serve as licensing factor for DNA replication to make sure that genomic DNA is replicated completely and accurately once during S phase in a single cell cycle. MCMs were initially identified in yeast for their role in plasmid replication or cell cycle progression. Each of six MCM contains highly conserved sequence called "MCM box", which contains two ATPase consensus Walker A and Walker B motifs. Studies on MCM proteins showed that (a) the replication origins are licensed by stable binding of MCM2-7 to form pre-RC (pre-replicative complex) during G1 phase of the cell cycle, (b) the activation of MCM proteins by CDKs (cyclin-dependent kinases) and DDKs (Dbf4-dependent kinases) and their helicase activity are important for pre-RC to initiate the DNA replication, and (c) the release of MCMs from chromatin renders the origins "unlicensed". DNA replication licensing in plant is, in general, less characterized. The MCMs have been reported from Arabidopsis, maize, tobacco, pea and rice, where they are found to be highly expressed in dividing tissues such as shoot apex and root tips, localized in nucleus and cytosol and play important role in DNA replication, megagametophyte and embryo development. The identification of six MCM coding genes from pea and Arabidopsis suggest six distinct classes of MCM protein in higher plant, and the conserved function right across the eukaryotes. This overview of MCMs contains an emphasis on MCMs from plants and the novel role of MCM6 in abiotic stress tolerance.
22038138	Development of specialized epidermal cells and structures plays a key role in plant tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. In the paddy field, the bright green leaf (bgl) mutants of rice (Oryza sativa) exhibit a luminous green color that is clearly distinguishable from the normal green of wild-type plants. Transmission and scanning electron microscopy revealed that small cuticular papillae (or small papillae; SP), nipple-like structures, are absent on the adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces of bgl mutants, leading to more direct reflection and less diffusion of green light. Map-based cloning revealed that the bgl locus encodes OsRopGEF10, one of eleven OsRopGEFs in rice. RopGEFs (guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rop) activate Rop/Rac GTPases, acting as molecular switches in eukaryotic signal transduction by replacing the bound GDP (inactive form) with GTP (active form) in response to external or internal cues. In agreement with the timing of SP initiation on the leaf epidermis, OsRopGEF10 is most strongly expressed in newly developing leaves before emergence from the leaf sheath. In yeast two-hybrid assays, OsRopGEF10 interacts with OsRac1, one of seven OsRac proteins; consistent with this, both proteins are localized in the plasma membrane. These results suggest that OsRopGEF10 activates OsRac1 to turn on the molecular signaling pathway for SP development. Together, our findings provide new insights into the molecular genetic mechanism of SP formation during early leaf morphogenesis.
22038433	The brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål; BPH) has become a severe constraint on rice production. Identification and pyramiding BPH-resistance genes is an economical and effective solution to increase the resistance level of rice varieties. All the BPH-resistance genes identified to date have been from indica rice or wild species. The BPH12 gene in the indica rice accession B14 is derived from the wild species Oryza latifolia. Using an F(2) population from a cross between the indica cultivar 93-11 and B14, we mapped the BPH12 gene to a 1.9-cM region on chromosome 4, flanked by the markers RM16459 and RM1305. In this population, BPH12 appeared to be partially dominant and explained 73.8% of the phenotypic variance in BPH resistance. A near-isogenic line (NIL) containing the BPH12 locus in the background of the susceptible japonica variety Nipponbare was developed and crossed with a NIL carrying BPH6 to generate a pyramid line (PYL) with both genes. BPH insects showed significant differences in non-preference in comparisons between the lines harboring resistance genes (NILs and PYL) and Nipponbare. BPH growth and development were inhibited and survival rates were lower on the NIL-BPH12 and NIL-BPH6 plants compared to the recurrent parent Nipponbare. PYL-BPH6 + BPH12 exhibited 46.4, 26.8 and 72.1% reductions in population growth rates (PGR) compared to NIL-BPH12, NIL-BPH6 and Nipponbare, respectively. Furthermore, insect survival rates were the lowest on the PYL-BPH6 + BPH12 plants. These results demonstrated that pyramiding different BPH-resistance genes resulted in stronger antixenotic and antibiotic effects on the BPH insects. This gene pyramiding strategy should be of great benefit for the breeding of BPH-resistant japonica rice varieties.
22038450	Both drought and high salinity stresses are major abiotic factors that limit the yield of agricultural crops. Transgenic techniques have been regarded as effective ways to improve crops in their tolerance to these abiotic stresses. Functional characterization of genes is the prerequisite to identify candidates for such improvement. Here, we have investigated the biological functions of an Oryza sativa Ribosome-inactivating protein gene 18 (OSRIP18) by ectopically expressing this gene under the control of CaMV 35S promoter in the rice genome. We have generated 11 independent transgenic rice plants and all of them showed significantly increased tolerance to drought and high salinity stresses. Global gene expression changes by Microarray analysis showed that more than 100 probe sets were detected with up-regulated expression abundance while signals from only three probe sets were down-regulated after over-expression of OSRIP18. Most of them were not regulated by drought or high salinity stresses. Our data suggested that the increased tolerance to these abiotic stresses in transgenic plants might be due to up-regulation of some stress-dependent/independent genes and OSRIP18 may be potentially useful in further improving plant tolerance to various abiotic stresses by over-expression.
22039121	Rice seed proteins are known to be a causative antigen in some patients with food allergy, especially cereal allergy, with clinical symptoms such as eczema and dermatitis. The α-amylase/trypsin inhibitors (14-16 kDa), α-globulin (26 kDa) and β-glyoxalase I (33 kDa) are regarded as major potential allergens of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed based on specific recognition by serum IgE from allergy patients. In order to suppress the production of these major allergens in rice grains, a mutant in the 'Koshihikari' background lacking the 26 kDa allergen (GbN-1) was used as a host for RNA silencing. A binary vector harboring two RNA interference (RNAi) gene cassettes for suppression of 14-16 kDa and 33 kDa allergens driven by the 13 kDa and 10 kDa prolamin endosperm-specific promoters, respectively, was introduced into the GbN-1 genome by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. In the most promising transgenic line, the content of the three potential allergens was remarkably reduced to a very faint level without a change in seed phenotype. IgE binding of 15 patients' sera to the transgenic rice seed mostly deficient in the three major allergens was on average only about 10% that of the control wild-type rice, suggesting that these three accounted for the great majority of rice seed causative allergens recognized by patients' IgE and that the sequential allergen deletion/reduction strategy works in the development of hypo-allergenic rice lines.
22039214	Legume GRAS (GAI, RGA, SCR)-type transcription factors NODULATION SIGNALING PATHWAY1 (NSP1) and NSP2 are essential for rhizobium Nod factor-induced nodulation. Both proteins are considered to be Nod factor response factors regulating gene expression after symbiotic signaling. However, legume NSP1 and NSP2 can be functionally replaced by nonlegume orthologs, including rice (Oryza sativa) NSP1 and NSP2, indicating that both proteins are functionally conserved in higher plants. Here, we show that NSP1 and NSP2 are indispensable for strigolactone (SL) biosynthesis in the legume Medicago truncatula and in rice. Mutant nsp1 plants do not produce SLs, whereas in M. truncatula, NSP2 is essential for conversion of orobanchol into didehydro-orobanchol, which is the main SL produced by this species. The disturbed SL biosynthesis in nsp1 nsp2 mutant backgrounds correlates with reduced expression of DWARF27, a gene essential for SL biosynthesis. Rice and M. truncatula represent distinct phylogenetic lineages that split approximately 150 million years ago. Therefore, we conclude that regulation of SL biosynthesis by NSP1 and NSP2 is an ancestral function conserved in higher plants. NSP1 and NSP2 are single-copy genes in legumes, which implies that both proteins fulfill dual regulatory functions to control downstream targets after rhizobium-induced signaling as well as SL biosynthesis in nonsymbiotic conditions.
22039485	The emergence of NextGen sequencing technology has generated much interest in the exploration of transcriptomes. Currently, Illumina Inc. (San Diego, CA) provides one of the most widely utilized sequencing platforms for gene expression analysis. While Illumina reagents and protocols perform adequately in RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), alternative reagents and protocols promise a higher throughput at a much lower cost. We have developed a low-cost and robust protocol to produce Illumina-compatible (GAIIx and HiSeq2000 platforms) RNA-seq libraries by combining several recent improvements. First, we designed balanced adapter sequences for multiplexing of samples; second, dUTP incorporation in 2(nd) strand synthesis was used to enforce strand-specificity; third, we simplified RNA purification, fragmentation and library size-selection steps thus drastically reducing the time and increasing throughput of library construction; fourth, we included an RNA spike-in control for validation and normalization purposes. To streamline informatics analysis for the community, we established a pipeline within the iPlant Collaborative. These scripts are easily customized to meet specific research needs and improve on existing informatics and statistical treatments of RNA-seq data. In particular, we apply significance tests for determining differential gene expression and intron retention events. To demonstrate the potential of both the library-construction protocol and data-analysis pipeline, we characterized the transcriptome of the rice leaf. Our data supports novel gene models and can be used to improve current rice genome annotation. Additionally, using the rice transcriptome data, we compared different methods of calculating gene expression and discuss the advantages of a strand-specific approach to detect bona-fide anti-sense transcripts and to detect intron retention events. Our results demonstrate the potential of this low cost and robust method for RNA-seq library construction and data analysis.
22039634
22040609	In the normal process of bioethanol production, biomass is transported to integrated large factories for degradation to sugar, fermentation, and recovery of ethanol by distillation. Biomass nutrient loss occurs during preservation and degradation. Our aim was to develop a decentralized ethanol production system appropriate for farm or co-operative level production that uses a solid-state fermentation method for producing bio-ethanol from whole crops, provides cattle feed, and produces no wastes. The idea is to incorporate traditional silage methods with simultaneous saccharification and fermentation. Harvested, fresh biomass is ensiled with biomass-degrading enzymes and yeast. Multiple parallel reactions for biomass degradation and ethanol and lactic acid production are induced in solid culture in hermetically sealed containers at a ranch. After fermentation, ethanol is collected on site from the vapor from heated fermented products. The parallel reactions of simultaneous saccharification and fermentation were induced efficiently in the model fermentation system. In a laboratory-scale feasibility study of the process, 250 g of freshly harvested forage rice with 62% moisture was treated with 0.86 filter paper units/g dry matter (DM) of cellulase and 0.32 U/g DM of glucoamylase. After 20 days of incubation at 28°C, 6.4 wt.% of ethanol in fresh matter (equivalent to 169 g/kg DM) was produced. When the 46 wt.% moisture was gathered as vapor from the fermented product, 74% of the produced ethanol was collected. Organic cellular contents (such as the amylase and pronase degradable fractions) were decreased by 63% and organic cell wall (fiber) content by 7% compared to silage prepared from the same material. We confirmed that efficient ethanol production is induced in nonsterilized whole rice plants in a laboratory-scale solid-state fermentation system. For practical use of the method, further study is needed to scale-up the fermentation volume, develop an efficient ethanol recovery method, and evaluate the fermentation residue as an actual cattle feed.
22042334	Gene duplication occurs by either DNA- or RNA-based processes; the latter duplicates single genes via retroposition of messenger RNA. The expression of a retroposed gene copy (retrocopy) is expected to be uncorrelated with its source gene because upstream promoter regions are usually not part of the retroposition process. In contrast, DNA-based duplication often encompasses both the coding and the intergenic (promoter) regions; hence, expression is often correlated, at least initially, between DNA-based duplicates. In this study, we identified 150 retrocopies in rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp japonica), most of which represent ancient retroposition events. We measured their expression from high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNAseq) data generated from seven tissues. At least 66% of the retrocopies were expressed but at lower levels than their source genes. However, the tissue specificity of retrogenes was similar to their source genes, and expression between retrocopies and source genes was correlated across tissues. The level of correlation was similar between RNA- and DNA-based duplicates, and they decreased over time at statistically indistinguishable rates. We extended these observations to previously identified retrocopies in Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting they may be general features of the process of retention of plant retrogenes.
22042856	Human serum albumin (HSA) is widely used in clinical and cell culture applications. Conventional production of HSA from human blood is limited by the availability of blood donation and the high risk of viral transmission from donors. Here, we report the production of Oryza sativa recombinant HSA (OsrHSA) from transgenic rice seeds. The level of OsrHSA reached 10.58% of the total soluble protein of the rice grain. Large-scale production of OsrHSA generated protein with a purity >99% and a productivity rate of 2.75 g/kg brown rice. Physical and biochemical characterization of OsrHSA revealed it to be equivalent to plasma-derived HSA (pHSA). The efficiency of OsrHSA in promoting cell growth and treating liver cirrhosis in rats was similar to that of pHSA. Furthermore, OsrHSA displays similar in vitro and in vivo immunogenicity as pHSA. Our results suggest that a rice seed bioreactor produces cost-effective recombinant HSA that is safe and can help to satisfy an increasing worldwide demand for human serum albumin.
22042862	Rice is a staple food for one-half the world's population and a model for other monocotyledonous species. Thus, efficient approaches for identifying key genes controlling simple or complex traits in rice have important biological, agricultural, and economic consequences. Here, we report on the construction of RiceNet, an experimentally tested genome-scale gene network for a monocotyledonous species. Many different datasets, derived from five different organisms including plants, animals, yeast, and humans, were evaluated, and 24 of the most useful were integrated into a statistical framework that allowed for the prediction of functional linkages between pairs of genes. Genes could be linked to traits by using guilt-by-association, predicting gene attributes on the basis of network neighbors. We applied RiceNet to an important agronomic trait, the biotic stress response. Using network guilt-by-association followed by focused protein-protein interaction assays, we identified and validated, in planta, two positive regulators, LOC_Os01g70580 (now Regulator of XA21; ROX1) and LOC_Os02g21510 (ROX2), and one negative regulator, LOC_Os06g12530 (ROX3). These proteins control resistance mediated by rice XA21, a pattern recognition receptor. We also showed that RiceNet can accurately predict gene function in another major monocotyledonous crop species, maize. RiceNet thus enables the identification of genes regulating important crop traits, facilitating engineering of pathways critical to crop productivity.
22043789	To investigate functions of flgDxoc and flgExoc genes regulated by diffusible signal factor (DSF) in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola(Xoc)Rs105. TheflgDxoc and flgExoc genes were amplified by PCR. We constructed deltaflgDxoc and deltaflgExoc, the deletion mutants from Rs105 by using double crossover method, and determined cell morphology, motility, pathogenicity in host rice and hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco. We tested the differential expression of flgDxoc and flgExoc gene by reverse transcriptional polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) between the wide type and deltarpfFxoc (the deletion mutant of rpfFxoc gene, which could not produce DSF). We cloned flgDxoc and flgExoc from genomic DNA of Rs105. PCR and Southern blot analysis demonstrated that the flgDxoc and flgExoc genes were knocked out successfully. Both mutants were non-flagellated and significantly attenuated motility on the 0.3% semi-solid medium. The pathogenicity on rice were obviously attenuated in deltaflgDxoc and deltaflgExoc compared to the wild type. All the changes in mutant could be restored through the complementation. However, there was no significant difference in bacterial growth in MMX medium and induction of HR between mutant (deltaflgDxoc or deltaflgExoc) and the wild type. In addition, the results of RT-PCR demonstrated that the transcription level of flgDxoc and flgExoc were downregulated in deltarpfFxoc. This study showed that expressions of flgDxoc and flgExoc were positively regulated by DSF, and necessary for flagellar hook assembly and flagellar structure in Xoc. Meanwhile, FlgD and FlgE contributed to pathogen's virulence, motility and chemotaxis, but no differences at growth rate in MMX medium and HR in nonhost. In addition, our results provided molecular evidences that the contribution of DSF-type quorum sensing to pathogen's virulence might be, at least partially, dependent on bacterial flagellar in Xoc.
22044963	Plant fungal pathogens change their cell wall components during the infection process to avoid degradation by host lytic enzymes, and conversion of the cell wall chitin to chitosan is likely to be one infection strategy of pathogens. Thus, introduction of chitosan-degradation activity into plants is expected to improve fungal disease resistance. Chitosanase has been found in bacteria and fungi, but not in higher plants. Here, we demonstrate that chitosanase, Cho1, from Bacillus circulans MH-K1 has antifungal activity against the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Introduction of the cho1 gene conferred chitosanase activity to rice cells. Transgenic rice plants expressing Cho1 designed to be localized in the apoplast showed increased resistance to M. oryzae accompanied by increased generation of hydrogen peroxide in the infected epidermal cells. These results strongly suggest that chitosan exists in the enzyme-accessible surface of M. oryzae during the infection process and that the enhancement of disease resistance is attributable to the antifungal activity of the secreted Cho1 and to increased elicitation of the host defense response.
22046146	Impaired cognition increases mortality in the aged. It is unclear how dietary quality might affect this relationship. To examine how dietary diversity and cognition might interact to determine survival. In a Nutrition and Health Survey in Taiwan (NAHSIT 1999-2000), 1,839 representative elderly were followed for mortality up to 10 years. The dietary quality measure was a dietary diversity score (DDS, range: 0-6) to present six food groups (dairy, meat, rice and grains, fruit, vegetable,fat and oil) derived from a 24-h dietary recall. Cognitive function was evaluated by the validated Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire (SPMSQ). Those with cognitive impairment (SPMSQ≥3 errors) had 2.56 (95% confidence intervals (CI), 1.99-3.28) times the all-cause-mortality risk of those with intact cognition. After control for potential confounders, the adjusted hazard ratio (HR) remained significant (1.46, 95% CI: 1.06-2.02). Significant interactions for DDS and cognition were found (p<0.001). Jointly, compared to normal-SPMSQ-highest DDS, the greatest HR is where impaired cognition is combined with the lowest DDS (HR 2.24, 95% CI: 1.19-4.24). Increased DDS was associated with improvement in survival that is especially evident in those with 1-2 errors where the greatest HR reduction was found, and for fruit. Attributability for mortality amounted to 18% for impaired cognition and 33% for least diverse diet. Dietary diversity may improve survival in relation to impaired cognitive function.
22046259	Co-expression networks systematically constructed from large-scale transcriptome data reflect the interactions and functions of genes with similar expression patterns and are a powerful tool for the comprehensive understanding of biological events and mining of novel genes. In Arabidopsis (a model dicot plant), high-resolution co-expression networks have been constructed from very large microarray datasets and these are publicly available as online information resources. However, the available transcriptome data of rice (a model monocot plant) have been limited so far, making it difficult for rice researchers to achieve reliable co-expression analysis. In this study, we performed co-expression network analysis by using combined 44 K agilent microarray datasets of rice, which consisted of 33 laser microdissection (LM)-microarray datasets of anthers, and 143 spatiotemporal transcriptome datasets deposited in RicexPro. The entire data of the rice co-expression network, which was generated from the 176 microarray datasets by the Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) method with the mutual rank (MR)-based cut-off, contained 24,258 genes and 60,441 genes pairs. Using these datasets, we constructed high-resolution co-expression subnetworks of two specific biological events in the anther, "meiosis" and "pollen wall synthesis". The meiosis network contained many known or putative meiotic genes, including genes related to meiosis initiation and recombination. In the pollen wall synthesis network, several candidate genes involved in the sporopollenin biosynthesis pathway were efficiently identified. Hence, these two subnetworks are important demonstrations of the efficiency of co-expression network analysis in rice. Our co-expression analysis included the separated transcriptomes of pollen and tapetum cells in the anther, which are able to provide precise information on transcriptional regulation during male gametophyte development in rice. The co-expression network data presented here is a useful resource for rice researchers to elucidate important and complex biological events.
22047206	Rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. IR64) was grown in split-root systems to analyze long-distance drought signaling within root systems. This in turn underpins how root systems in heterogeneous soils adapt to drought. The approach was to compare four root tissues: (1) fully watered; (2) fully droughted and split-root systems where (3) one-half was watered and (4) the other half was droughted. This was specifically aimed at identifying how droughted root tissues altered the proteome of adjacent wet roots by hormone signals and how wet roots reciprocally affected dry roots hydraulically. Quantitative label-free shotgun proteomic analysis of four different root tissues resulted in identification of 1487 nonredundant proteins, with nearly 900 proteins present in triplicate in each treatment. Drought caused surprising changes in expression, most notably in partially droughted roots where 38% of proteins were altered in level compared to adjacent watered roots. Specific functional groups changed consistently in drought. Pathogenesis-related proteins were generally up-regulated in response to drought and heat-shock proteins were totally absent in roots of fully watered plants. Proteins involved in transport and oxidation-reduction reactions were also highly dependent upon drought signals, with the former largely absent in roots receiving a drought signal while oxidation-reduction proteins were strongly present during drought. Finally, two functionally contrasting protein families were compared to validate our approach, showing that nine tubulins were strongly reduced in droughted roots while six chitinases were up-regulated, even when the signal arrived remotely from adjacent droughted roots.
22048639	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Stål), is one of the most serious and destructive pests of rice, and can be found throughout the rice-growing areas of Asia. To date, more than 24 major BPH-resistance genes have been reported in several Oryza sativa ssp. indica cultivars and wild relatives. Here, we report the genetic basis of the high level of BPH resistance derived from an Indian rice cultivar, ADR52, which was previously identified as resistant to the whitebacked planthopper (Sogatella furcifera [Horváth]). An F(2) population derived from a cross between ADR52 and a susceptible cultivar, Taichung 65 (T65), was used for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. Antibiosis testing showed that multiple loci controlled the high level of BPH resistance in this F(2) population. Further linkage analysis using backcross populations resulted in the identification of BPH-resistance (antibiosis) gene loci from ADR52. BPH25 co-segregated with marker S00310 on the distal end of the short arm of chromosome 6, and BPH26 co-segregated with marker RM5479 on the long arm of chromosome 12. To characterize the virulence of the most recently migrated BPH strain in Japan, preliminary near-isogenic lines (pre-NILs) and a preliminary pyramided line (pre-PYL) carrying BPH25 and BPH26 were evaluated. Although both pre-NILs were susceptible to the virulent BPH strain, the pre-PYL exhibited a high level of resistance. The pyramiding of resistance genes is therefore likely to be effective for increasing the durability of resistance against the new virulent BPH strain in Japan.
22049767	Agricultural fields have been frequently identified as major contributors of nitrate leaching into surface and ground waters. Tile drains can act as direct pathways, transferring leached nitrate to surface water. Bioreactor filters are useful for the removal of nitrate from drainage waters; however, these filters require an external carbon supply to sustain denitrification. In this study, four organic carbon sources including wood, barley straw, rice husks, and date palm leaf, were used to enhance denitrification and the effects of water velocity and influent nitrate concentration on the nitrate removal were evaluated. Cumulative nitrate removal was highest for the date palm leaf treatments and was lowest for the wood treatments. The effects were in decreasing order for date palm leaf, barley straw, rice husks, and wood, respectively. The performance of the biofilters improved with increasing influent nitrate concentration and decreasing water velocity, allowing for high nitrate removal rates to be achieved. The results showed that all of the treatments had reduced the effluent nitrate concentrations below the USEPA maximum contaminant level for drinking water of 45 mg L(-1) nitrate at the end of the study.
22050533	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress sensor IRE1 transduces signals by inducing the unconventional splicing of mRNAs encoding key transcription factors: HAC1 in yeast and XBP1 in animals. However, no HAC1 or XBP1 homologues have been found in plants, and until recently the substrate for plant IRE1 has remained unknown. This study demonstrates that the Oryza sativa (rice) OsbZIP50 transcription factor, an orthologue of Arabidopsis AtbZIP60, is regulated by IRE1-mediated splicing of its RNA. Despite the presence of a transcriptional activation domain, OsbZIP50 protein is not translocated into the nucleus efficiently in the absence of OsbZIP50 mRNA splicing. Unconventional splicing of OsbZIP50 mRNA causes a frame shift, which results in the appearance of a nuclear localization signal in the newly translated OsbZIP50. OsbZIP50 mRNA is spliced in a similar manner to HAC1 and XBP1 mRNAs; however, this splicing has very different effects on the translation products, a finding that shows the diversity of IRE1-related transcription factors in eukaryotes. In addition, the expression of OsbZIP50 is affected by ER stress sensor proteins OsIRE1, OsbZIP39 and OsbZIP60. ER stress-related genes differ with respect to their dependency on OsbZIP50 for their expression. The findings of this study improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the plant ER stress response.
22050783	The fungal pathogen Setosphaeria turcica causes turcicum or northern leaf blight disease on maize, sorghum and related grasses. A prevalent foliar disease found worldwide where the two host crops, maize and sorghum are grown. The aim of the present study was to find genes controlling the host defense response to this devastating plant pathogen. A cDNA-AFLP approach was taken to identify candidate sequences, which functions were further validated via virus induced gene silencing (VIGS), and real-time PCR analysis. Phylogenetic analysis was performed to address evolutionary events. cDNA-AFLP analysis was run on susceptible and resistant sorghum and maize genotypes to identify resistance-related sequences. One CC-NB-LRR encoding gene GRMZM2G005347 was found among the up-regulated maize transcripts after fungal challenge. The new plant resistance gene was designated as St referring to S. turcica. Genome sequence comparison revealed that the CC-NB-LRR encoding St genes are located on chromosome 2 in maize, and on chromosome 5 in sorghum. The six St sorghum genes reside in three pairs in one locus. When the sorghum St genes were silenced via VIGS, the resistance was clearly compromised, an observation that was supported by real-time PCR. Database searches and phylogenetic analysis suggest that the St genes have a common ancestor present before the grass subfamily split 50-70 million years ago. Today, 6 genes are present in sorghum, 9 in rice and foxtail millet, respectively, 3 in maize and 4 in Brachypodium distachyon. The St gene homologs have all highly conserved sequences, and commonly reside as gene pairs in the grass genomes. Resistance genes to S. turcica, with a CC-NB-LRR protein domain architecture, have been found in maize and sorghum. VIGS analysis revealed their importance in the surveillance to S. turcica in sorghum. The St genes are highly conserved in sorghum, rice, foxtail millet, maize and Brachypodium, suggesting an essential evolutionary function.
22051578	In the present study, sufu, a soft cheese-like oriental fermented food, was prepared by ripening the salted-tofu cubes in Aspergillus oryzae-fermented soybean-rice koji at 37°C for 16 days (16-day sufu). Sufu was further held at room temperature for another 30 days (46-day sufu). The volatile components of the non-fermented tofu cubes and the sufu products were identified and quantified by GC and GC-MS. A total of 70 volatile compounds including 20 aldehydes, 18 alcohols, 16 esters, 5 ketones, 5 acids and 6 other compounds were identified. Sufu products contained more volatile compounds than non-fermented tofu cubes qualitatively and quantitatively. After 16-days of ripening, fatty acid, aldehyde and ester were noted to be the dominant volatile fractions. In contrast, the 46-day sufu contained ester, and alcohol as the major volatile fractions. They comprise approximately 63.9% of the total volatile components.
22053756	Mitochondrial oxidative stress (MOS) is a major factor in the underlying pathology of many neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of a unique class of nutraceutical antioxidants, anthocyanins, against MOS-induced death of cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Callistephin and kuromanin are anthocyanins derived from strawberries and black rice, respectively, whose neuroprotective properties have yet to be examined in detail. Glutathione (GSH)-sensitive MOS and intrinsic apoptosis were induced in CGNs by incubation with the Bcl-2 inhibitor, HA14-1. The effects of anthocyanin co-incubation on CGN survival were assessed. The anthocyanins demonstrated significant protection from MOS-induced apoptosis which was equivalent to that provided by the green tea polyphenol, epigallocatechin 3-gallate; however, neither anthocyanin was as effective as GSH at rescuing CGNs. Inhibition of Bcl-2 caused a significant reduction of mitochondrial GSH which was prevented by the anthocyanins. Furthermore, the anthocyanins inhibited iron-induced lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenates and prevented cardiolipin oxidation induced by MOS in CGNs. MOS-induced mitochondrial fragmentation and proteolytic cleavage of the optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) fusion GTPase were also attenuated by the anthocyanins. Finally, the anthocyanins significantly enhanced GSH peroxidase activity in a cell-free assay. These data show that anthocyanins suppress MOS-induced apoptosis by preserving mitochondrial GSH and inhibiting cardiolipin oxidation and mitochondrial fragmentation. These nutraceutical antioxidants warrant further study as potential therapeutic agents for neurodegenerative diseases caused by MOS.
22053951	The development and starch accumulation of cereal endosperms rely on the sugar supply of leaves, which is subject to diurnal cycles, and the endosperm itself also experiences a light/dark switch. However, revealing how the cereal endosperm responds to diurnal input remains a major challenge. We used comparative proteomic approaches to probe diurnally affected processes in rice endosperm (Oryza sativa) 10 days after flowering under 12-h light/12-h dark. Starch granules in rice endosperm showed a growth ring structure under a normal light/dark cycle but not under constant light. Sucrose showed a high level in light and low level in dark. Two-dimensional (2-D) differential in-gel electrophoresis-based proteomic analysis revealed 101 protein spots diurnally changed and 91 identities, which were involved in diverse processes with preferred distribution in stress response, protein synthesis/destination and metabolism. Proteins involved in cell division showed high expression in light and those in cell enlargement and cell wall synthesis high in dark, while starch synthesis proteins were light-downregulated and dark-upregulated. Redox homeostasis-associated proteins showed in-phase peaks under light and dark. These data demonstrate diurnal input-regulated diverse cellular and metabolic processes in rice endosperm, and coordination among these processes is essential for development and starch accumulation with diurnal input.
22054590	The calcination/carbonation cycle using calcium-based sorbents appears to be a viable method for carbon dioxide (CO₂) capture from combustion gases. Recent attempts to improve the CO₂/SO₂ uptake of a calcium-based sorbent modified by using rice husk ash (RHA) in the hydration process have succeeded in enhancing its effectiveness. The optimal mole ratio of RHA to calcined limestone (M(Si/Ca)) was adjusted to 0.2. The cyclic CO₂ capture characteristics and the SO₂ uptake activity of the modified sorbent were evaluated in a calcination/pressurized carbonation reactor system. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images and X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectrum of the sorbent were also taken to supplement the study. The results showed that the carbonation conversion was greatly increased for the sorbent with M(Si/Ca) ratio of 0.2. For this sorbent formulation the optimal operating conditions were 700-750 °C and 0.5-0.7 MPa. CO₂ absorption was not proportional to CO₂ concentration in the carbonation atmosphere, but was directly related to reaction time. The CO₂ uptake decreased in the presence of SO₂. SO₂ uptake increased, and the total calcium utilization was maintained over multiple cycles. Analysis has shown that the silicate component is evenly or well distributed, and this serves as a framework to prevent sintering, thus preserving the available microstructure for reaction. The sorbent also displayed high activity to SO₂ absorption and could be used to capture CO₂ and SO₂ simultaneously.
22055452	Knowledge of the spatial correlation of soil arsenic (As) concentrations with environmental variables is needed to assess the nature and extent of the risk of As contamination from irrigation water in Bangladesh. We analyzed 263 paired groundwater and paddy soil samples covering highland (HL) and medium highland-1 (MHL-1) land types for geostatistical mapping of soil As and delineation of As contaminated areas in Tala Upazilla, Satkhira district. We also collected 74 non-rice soil samples to assess the baseline concentration of soil As for this area. The mean soil As concentrations (mg/kg) for different land types under rice and non-rice crops were: rice-MHL-1 (21.2)>rice-HL (14.1)>non-rice-MHL-1 (11.9)>non-rice-HL (7.2). Multiple regression analyses showed that irrigation water As, Fe, land elevation and years of tubewell operation are the important factors affecting the concentrations of As in HL paddy soils. Only years of tubewell operation affected As concentration in the MHL-1 paddy soils. Quantitatively similar increases in soil As above the estimated baseline-As concentration were observed for rice soils on HL and MHL-1 after 6-8 years of groundwater irrigation, implying strong retention of As added in irrigation water in both land types. Application of single geostatistical methods with secondary variables such as regression kriging (RK) and ordinary co-kriging (OCK) gave little improvement in prediction of soil As over ordinary kriging (OK). Comparing single prediction methods, kriging within strata (KWS), the combination of RK for HL and OCK for MHL-1, gave more accurate soil As predictions and showed the lowest misclassification of declaring a location "contaminated" with respect to 14.8 mg As/kg, the highest value obtained for the baseline soil As concentration. Prediction of soil As buildup over time indicated that 75% or the soils cropped to rice would contain at least 30 mg/L As by the year 2020.
22055814	Seven different starches from potato, rice, maize, waxymaize, amylomaize-VII, shoti, and tapioca, and potato amylose and potato amylopectin have been reacted with benzaldehyde, catalyzed by ZnCl(2), to give new water-soluble starches and water soluble-amylose and soluble-amylopectin. In contrast to the native starches, aqueous solutions of the modified starches could not be precipitated with 2-, 3-, or 4-volumes of ethanol. β-Amylase gave no reaction with the modified starches, in contrast to the native starches, indicating that the modification occurred exclusively at the nonreducing-ends, giving 4,6-benzylidene-D-glucopyranose at the nonreducing-ends. Reactions of α-amylase with native and modified potato and rice starches gave a decrease in the triiodide blue color and an increase in the reducing-value that were similar for the native- and modified-starches, indicating the modified starches had not been significantly altered by the modification. The benzaldehyde-modified starches and benzaldehyde-modified potato amylose and potato amylopectin components, therefore, have a starch structure very much like their native counterparts, in contrast to the Lintner, Small, and the alcohol/acid-hydrolyzed soluble-starches that have undergone acid hydrolysis. The benzaldehyde-modified starches and starch components have significantly higher water solubility than their native counterparts even though the structures of the modified starches had only been slightly altered from the structures of their native counterparts. They all gave crystal-clear solutions that did not retrograde.
22055918	In order to create a safe tolerogenic antigen with reduced IgE reactivity, we developed transgenic rice that accumulates in the seed endosperm a sufficient amount of Cry j 2, the cedar pollen allergen, in a restructured form of tail-to-head, providing a feasible mucosal allergy vaccine against cedar pollinosis.
22056144	Members of the Bacillus cereus group were isolated from rice products by centrifugation-plating and conventional spread-plating methods. Random amplified polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction (RAPD-PCR) results showed broad diversity among the strains and revealed some associations among isolates from raw and cooked rice samples, at the genotypic level. A comparatively greater diversity among strains was observed in isolates from raw rice than those from cooked rice and, generally, the RAPD profiles of isolates from raw and cooked rice were different, with only a few of them common to both types of rice. The toxigenic potential of the isolates was also determined by molecular and immunoassay analyses. The results revealed that most isolates from the B. cereus group were potentially or actually toxigenic, and some isolates could produce both diarrhoeal and emetic toxins. Generally, isolates belonging to the B. cereus group with the same RAPD pattern were shown to have a similar profile of enterotoxigenicity.
22057332	Polar auxin transport (PAT) plays a critical role in the regulation of plant growth and development. Auxin influx carrier AUX1 is predominantly localized to the upper side of specific root cells in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of OsAGAP, an ARF-GTPase activating protein in rice, could induce the accumulation of AUX1. But the mechanism is poorly known. Here we reported that over-expression of ARF-GAP could reduce the thickness and bundling of microfilament (MF) which possibly could greatly interfere with the endocytosis of AUX1 early endosome; but not the exocytosis of AUX1 recycling endosome. Therefore, AFR-GAP over-expression suppressed-MF bundling is likely involved in regulating endocytosis of Auxin influx carrier AUX1 and in mediating auxin dependent plant development.
22057680	Individuals with favorable levels of readily measured cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors (low risk, LR) experience low long-term rates of CVD mortality and greater longevity. The purpose of the current study was to compare nutrient/food intakes of LR participants with participants not LR in the INTERMAP study. Men and women (40-59 years) from 17 population samples in four countries (China, Japan, UK, US) provided four 24-h dietary recalls and two timed 24-h urine collections. LR was defined as meeting all of the following CVD risk criteria: systolic/diastolic blood pressure (BP) ≤ 120/ ≤ 80 mmHg; no drug treatment for high BP, hyperlipidemia, or CVD; non-smoking; BMI <25.0 kg/m(2) (US, UK) or <23.0 kg/m(2) (China, Japan); alcohol consumption <26.0 g/day (men)/<13.0 g/day (women); and no history of diabetes or CVD. Multivariate logistic regression was used to examine associations of nutrient/food intakes with LR. LR individuals reported higher intake of vegetable protein, fiber, magnesium, non-heme iron, potassium; lower energy intake; lower intake of cholesterol, saturated fatty acids, animal protein; and lower 24-h urinary sodium compared with individuals not LR. With regard to foods, LR individuals reported higher intake of fruits, vegetables, grains, pasta/rice, fish; lower intakes of meats, processed meats, high-fat dairy, and sugar-sweetened beverages than individuals not LR. Lower energy intake and differential intake of multiple specific nutrients and foods are characteristic of individuals at low risk for developing CVD. Identification of dietary habits associated with LR is important for further development of public health efforts aimed at reduction/prevention of CVD.
22057934	The voltage-dependent anion-selective channel (VDAC) is the most abundant protein in the mitochondrial outer membrane and forms the major conduit for metabolite transport across this membrane. VDACs from different sources show varied primary sequence but conserved functional properties. Here, we report on the characterization of a rice channel, OsVDAC4, which complements a VDAC1 deficiency in yeast. We present a consensus secondary structure prediction of an N-terminal α-helix and 19 β-strands. Bacterially expressed OsVDAC4 was purified from inclusion bodies into detergent-containing solution, where it is largely helical. Detergent-solubilized OsVDAC4 inserts spontaneously into artificial membranes of two topologies-spherical liposomes and planar bilayers. Insertion into liposomes results in an increase in β-structure. Transport of polyethylene glycols was used to estimate a pore diameter of ~2.6 nm in liposomes. Channels formed in planar bilayers exhibit large conductance (4.6 ± 0.3 nS in 1 M KCl), strong voltage dependence and weak anion selectivity. The open state of the channel is shown to be permeable to ATP. These data are consistent with a large β-barrel pore formed by OsVDAC4 on inserting into membranes. This study forms a platform to carry out studies of the interaction of OsVDAC4 with putative modulators.
22057936	OsLEA4, a late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein gene from rice (Oryza sativa L.), contains a 312-bp open reading frame encoding a putative polypeptide of 103 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 11.19 kDa and a theoretical pI of 10.04. OsLEA4 polypeptide is rich in Ala (22%), Lys (15%), Glu (9%), His (8%), Thr (8%), and Arg (7%) and lacking in Trp, Cys, Asn, and Phe residues. OsLEA4 protein contains a Pfam:LEA_1 domain architecture at positions 1-73 with three α-helical domains and without β-sheet domain. In silico predictions showed that OsLEA4 protein was strongly hydrophilic with the grand average of hydropathy value of -0.816 and instability index of 27.31. The hydrophilic regions were found in the conserved motif of OsLEA4. OsLEA4 gene was introduced into Escherichia coli, and a fusion protein (∼29.4 kDa) was expressed after isopropylthio-β-D: -galactoside inducting by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis. OsLEA4 protein enhanced the tolerance of E. coli recombinant to high salinity, heat, freezing, and UV radiation, which suggested that OsLEA4 protein may play a protective role under stressed conditions. This is the first successful use of E. coli as a prokaryotic system for LEA production from rice.
22057949	Urea in alcoholic beverages is a precursor of ethyl carbamate, which is carcinogenic. Acid urease (EC 3.5.1.5) is regarded as a good approach to scavenge the urea. The acid urease of Enterobacter sp. R-SYB082, with lower optimum pH than the widely used commercial acid urease, exhibited a urea removal rate of 66.5% in Chinese rice wine, which was higher than that of the commercial acid urease (58.9%). The production of the acid urease was optimized from 1,100 to 2,504 U L(-1) by an approach which includes the optimization of initial glucose concentration, the elevation of anaerobic level of the reactor by charging CO(2) and in vitro natural activation of the target enzyme by simple cold storage (4°C). These would open up the possibility for developing industrial application of this acid urease for producing high-quality Chinese rice wine.
22057958	Plant lipoxygenase (LOX) is involved in growth and developmental control processes, through the biosynthesis of regulatory molecules and defense responses to pathogens, wounding and stress. To date, few LOX proteins and little tissue expression profiling have been reported in detail for cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.). Recent completion of the cucumber genome sequence now permits genome-wide analysis of the LOX gene family in cucumber as well as comparison with LOX in Arabidopsis and rice. We identified 23 candidate LOX genes in the cucumber genome; phylogenetic analysis indicated that these LOX members cluster into two groups, designated types 1 and 2, as expected from previous studies. Sequence analysis showed that five binding sites of iron, including two consensus histidines in the LOX domain, are highly conserved in the cucumber LOX proteins. Analysis of chromosomal localization and genome distribution suggested that tandem duplication and/or polyploidal duplication contributed to the expansion of the cucumber LOX gene family. Based on intron/exon structure analysis, only a few of the extant intron patterns existed in the ancestor of monocots and eudicots. Expression data showed widespread distribution of the cucumber LOX gene family within plant tissues, suggesting that they perform different functions in different tissues.
22057998	Pollen sterility is one of the main hindrances against the utilization of strong intersubspecific (indica-japonica) heterosis in rice. We looked for neutral alleles at known pollen sterility loci Sd and Se that could overcome this pollen sterility characteristic. Taichung 65, a typical japonica cultivar, and its near isogenic lines E7 and E8 for pollen sterility loci Sd and Se were employed as tester lines for crossing with 13 accessions of wild rice (O. rufipogon). Pollen fertility and genotypic segregations of the molecular markers tightly linked with Sd and Se loci were analyzed in the paired F(1)s and F(2) populations. One accession of wild rice (GZW054) had high pollen fertility in the paired F(1)s between Taichung 65 and E7 or E8. Genotypic segregations of the molecular markers tightly linked with Sd and Se loci fit the expected Mendelian ratio (1:2:1), and non-significances were shown among the mean pollen fertilities with the maternal, parental, and heterozygous genotypes of each molecular markers tightly linked with Sd and Se loci. Evidentially, it indicated that the alleles of Sd and Se loci for GZW054 did not interact with those of Taichung 65 and its near isogenic lines, and, thus were identified as neutral alleles Sd(n) and Se(n). These neutral genes could become important germplasm resources for overcoming pollen sterility in indica-japonica hybrids, making utilization of strong heterosis in such hybrids viable.
22058019	Since the identification of BRI1-Associated receptor Kinase 1 (BAK1), a member of the Somatic Embryogenesis Receptor Kinase (SERK) family, the dual functions of BAK1 in BR signaling and innate immunity in Arabidopsis have attracted considerable attention as clues for understanding developmental processes that must be balanced between growth and defense over the life of plants. Here, we extended our research to study cellular functions of OsSERKs in rice. As it was difficult to identify an authentic ortholog of AtBAK1 in rice, we generated transgenic rice in which the expression of multiple OsSERK genes, including OsBAK1, was reduced by OsBAK1 RNA interference. Resulting transgenic rice showed reduced levels of Os-BAK1 and decreased sensitivity to BL, leading to semidwarfism in overall growth. Moreover, they resulted in abnormal growth patterns, especially in leaf development. Most of the OsBAK1RNAi transgenic rice plants were defective in the development of bulliform cells in the leaf epidermal layer. They also showed increased expression level of pathogenesis-related gene and enhanced susceptibility to a rice blast-causing fungal pathogen, Magnaporthe oryzae. These results indicate that OsSERK genes, such as OsBAK1, play versatile roles in rice growth and development.
22058403	The Pi54 gene (Pi-k(h)) confers a high degree of resistance to diverse strains of the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. In order to understand the genome-wide co-expression of genes in the transgenic rice plant Taipei 309 (TP) containing the Pi54 gene, microarray analysis was performed at 72 h post-inoculation of the M. oryzae strain PLP-1. A total of 1154 differentially expressing genes were identified in TP-Pi54 plants. Of these, 587 were up-regulated, whereas 567 genes were found to be down-regulated. 107 genes were found that were exclusively up-regulated and 58 genes that were down- regulated in the case of TP-Pi54. Various defence response genes, such as callose, laccase, PAL, and peroxidase, and genes related to transcription factors like NAC6, Dof zinc finger, MAD box, bZIP, and WRKY were found to be up-regulated in the transgenic line. The enzymatic activities of six plant defence response enzymes, such as peroxidase, polyphenol oxidase, phenylalanine ammonia lyase, β-glucosidase, β-1,3-glucanase, and chitinase, were found to be significantly high in TP-Pi54 at different stages of inoculation by M. oryzae. The total phenol content also increased significantly in resistant transgenic plants after pathogen inoculation. This study suggests the activation of defence response and transcription factor-related genes and a higher expression of key enzymes involved in the defence response pathway in the rice line TP-Pi54, thus leading to incompatible host-pathogen interaction.
22059442	High-amylose cereal starch has a great benefit on human health through its resistant starch (RS) content. Enzyme hydrolysis of native starch is very helpful in understanding the structure of starch granules and utilizing them. In this paper, native starch granules were isolated from a transgenic rice line (TRS) enriched with amylose and RS and hydrolyzed by α-amylase. Structural properties of hydrolyzed TRS starches were studied by X-ray powder diffraction, Fourier transform infrared, and differential scanning calorimetry. The A-type polymorph of TRS C-type starch was hydrolyzed faster than the B-type polymorph, but the crystallinity did not significantly change during enzyme hydrolysis. The degree of order in the external region of starch granule increased with increasing enzyme hydrolysis time. The amylose content decreased at first and then went back up during enzyme hydrolysis. The hydrolyzed starches exhibited increased onset and peak gelatinization temperatures and decreased gelatinization enthalpy on hydrolysis. These results suggested that the B-type polymorph and high amylose that formed the double helices and amylose-lipid complex increased the resistance to BAA hydrolysis. Furthermore, the spectrum results of RS from TRS native starch digested by pancreatic α-amylase and amyloglucosidase also supported the above conclusion.
22060290	Inflammation is associated with atherosclerosis. Cholestin (Monascus purpureus-fermented rice) contains a naturally occurring statin, which has lipid-modulating, anti-inflammatory and antioxidative effects. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Cholestin extract on the expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 by tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-treated human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs). Zymography, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunoblot analyses were used for analysis of MMP expression of TNF-α-stimulated HASMCs. Gel shift assay was used for analysis of transcription factor nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation was also analysed. The supplement of HASMCs with Cholestin extract significantly suppresses enzymatic activities of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in TNF-α-stimulated HASMCs. RT-PCR and immunoblot analyses show that Cholestin extract significantly attenuates TNF-α-induced mRNA and protein expressions of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Gel shift assays show that Cholestin treatment reduces TNF-α-activated NF-κB. Furthermore, Cholestin also attenuates intracellular ROS generation in TNF-α-treated HASMCs. The supplement with an ROS scavenger N-acetyl-cysteine (glutathione precursor) gives similar results to Cholestin. Cholestin reduces TNF-α-stimulated MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression as well as downregulating NF-κB activation and intracellular ROS formation in HASMCs, supporting the notion that the natural compound Cholestin may have potential application in clinical atherosclerosis disease.
2206098	To investigate the effects of meal size reduction on postprandial variables, adult male volunteers consumed at noon hot lunches composed of cooked white rice, fried chicken fillet, raisins, bigarreaus and curry sauce with carbohydrate/fat ratios of either 0.77 or 2.04 (37-57 en% carbohydrate, respectively). Prior to the actual experiment, the individual meal sizes were determined by allowing the volunteers to eat a self-preferred amount of the high carbohydrate meal. The test meals were adjusted to either 70 or 100% of the energy content of this individually chosen meal size. A higher degree of satiety was detected up to 4 h after the 100%-size carbohydrate-rich meal as compared to that after the fat-rich meals and the 70%-size carbohydrate-rich meal. The reduction in meal size had only small effects on the postprandial curves of glucose, insulin, free fatty acid and total glycerol in the blood relative to those induced by the variation in carbohydrate/fat ratio in the meals. No significant effects of meal size were detected on the postprandial curve of free glycerol. Thus limited restriction in the size of a meal relative to the ad libitum intake of an individual may be expected to lead to only minor effects on the various postprandial curves in meal-eating studies.
22061635	The colour of meat and rice flour pastes containing known amounts of myoglobin and the colour of intact beef and pork samples were analyzed with tissue spectrophotometer TS-200. The differences in the spectra of myoglobin among three types of derivatives were successfully distinguished with this instrument. In addition, there is a close relationship between I(HB) value, a parameter for estimating the content of pigments in animal tissues, and myoglobin content in model systems (rice flour paste and meat paste). Especially, the I(HB) value is proportional to myoglobin content in intact beef and pork meat whose myoglobin is mostly in the state of oxymyoglobin and/or deoxymyoglobin: y = 208·26 x + 6·72, where y is the I(HB) value, x is the myoglobin content (%) and r = 0·94.
22062158	Commercially available reference materials are integral components of many experimental protocols, as it is critical to compare one's results to those derived from well-characterized standards. Most reference materials are well defined, with all their components being cataloged. However, certain reference materials, such as commercially prepared starch samples, can have undefined components, potentially limiting their usefulness as standards. The proteome of commercially prepared starch has not been documented, and to that end, we initiated a mass spectrometry-based survey of the proteins associated with starch granules in commercially prepared rice and maize starch samples. We performed direct trypsin treatments of starch samples and sequenced both the water-soluble peptides liberated into the aqueous supernatant and the peptides released from the starch granule surface by isopropanol solvent washing. We discovered that the majority of proteins, in both rice and maize samples, were involved in either carbohydrate metabolism or storage. We also documented proteins that are markers for seed maturity and for starch mobilization.
22062364	Blends of corn starch (81.72-84.86%) and ground meat (goat meat, lamb, mutton, spent hen meat, beef 15.14-18.28%) were prepared for a target moisture level of 26.5% (with no added water) and cooked-puffed using a single-screw extruder. All extrudates were well expanded and low in fat (< 1.5%), a(w) (< 0.12), bulk density, and shear-force. Trained panel sensory scores indicated all products were bland, with no differences found in flavor attributes among products. The dominant flavor notes were "rice" and "dried grassy" (mean scores of 2.23-2.29 and 1.81-2.15, respectively, on a 0-15 scale). Most panelists did not perceive "meat" note or species-related meat flavor. Total polyunsaturated fatty acid percentage was similar for extrudates with beef, lamb and mutton and highest for those with chicken. When extrudates were stored aerobically at 37°C for up to 120 days, lipid oxidation (as measured in meq. peroxides/kg fat) was lower for products containing goat meat, lamb, or mutton than for those with beef or chicken. The degree of polyunsaturation or unsaturation of their fat only partly accounted for the lipid oxidation differences. ©
22063118	Various blends of spent hen meat and grains (potato starch, corn starch, and rice flour) were popped using a popping machine. Lowest bulk density was observed in the snack with 1:2 ratio of meat and potato starch. Except for the popped snack with meat and rice flour, as the starch content increased, bulk density decreased gradually. Popped snacks with grains only were higher in L* value than those with meat and grains. The a* and b* values increased with increasing meat content. All popped snacks were significantly different (P<0.001) in bulk density, color, and breaking force. As the grain content of snacks increased, the size of the air cells also increased. Results of scanning electron microscopic and optical microscopic observations revealed the popping degree of snack with starch and spent hen meat was affected by the presence of meat. The optimum ratios of meat to grain for high expansion ratio were determined to be 1:2 and 1:3 of meat to corn starch and potato starch.
22063185	Effects of anka rice, nitrite, and phosphate used in surface curing of roast beef on chemical analysis, lipid oxidation, sensory evaluation, physical measurements, and microbial growth after refrigerated storage were studied. TBA values indicated that nitrite retarded lipid oxidation and inhibited development of warmed-over flavor; however, anka rice had a flavor masking effect on oxidation; and phosphate did not improve physical measurements due to surface curing but slightly inhibited oxidation. There was a synergistic effect among anka rice, nitrite, and phosphate in some measurements.
2206372	We have compared the acute toxicity, sub-acute toxicity and in vitro and in vivo anti-tumor action of the rude drug, stir-fried with rice, and alkali-processed drugs of Mylabris phalerata before and after removing the head, feet and wings. The results indicate that the toxicity of the processed drugs is lower than that of the rude ones; the toxicity becomes higher without head, feet, and wings; and the alkali-processing method is better than stir-frying with rice recorded in the pharmacopeia.
22063887	Four kinds of bran, which are milled from important rice cultivators in Taiwan, have high contents of dietary fiber, fat and protein. The use of rice bran in Kung-wan, an emulsified pork meatball, was investigated. It was found that protein and fat contents, and white index of meatballs decreased as the amount of bran increased. A texture profile analysis (TPA) also indicated the hardness, gumminess and chewiness of the Kung-wan decreased. The sensory scores of taste, texture and overall acceptability of meatballs with less than 10% added bran showed no significant difference from those for meatballs without bran. However, the added amount of 15% enriched meatballs resulted in inferior sensory scores. The bran's particle size profoundly affected the sensory and physico-chemical properties of the meat products. Meatballs enriched with smaller bran particles possessed higher TPA indices and sensory scores than those added with larger ones. No significant differences in proximate composition, cooking yield, color and sensory quality were found among emulsified meatballs enriched with four different kinds of bran. Conclusively, the suitable amount of rice bran that should be added to emulsified pork meatballs was less than 10% and a smaller particle size would result in better quality.
22065257	Juglone (5-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone) is known allelochemical, but its molecular mode of action is not well understood. We found that juglone induced reactive oxygen species production and calcium accumulation. To gain more insight into these cellular responses, we performed large-scale analysis of the rice transcriptome during juglone stress. Exposure to juglone triggered changes in transcript levels of genes related to cell growth, cell wall formation, chemical detoxification, abiotic stress response and epigenesis. The most predominant transcription-factor families were AP2/ERF, HSF, NAC, C2H2, WRKY, MYB and GRAS. Gene expression profiling of juglone-treated rice roots revealed upregulated signaling and biosynthesis of abscisic acid and jasmonic acid and inactivation of gibberellic acid. In addition, juglone upregulated the expression of two calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs), 6 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) genes and 1 MAPK gene and markedly increased the activities of a CDPK-like kinase and MAPKs. Further characterization of these juglone-responsive genes may be helpful for better understanding the mechanisms of allelochemical tolerance in plants.
22066201	Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is an important pest of several crops in the western hemisphere. This insect has genetically differentiated into two host-associated populations: the corn (Zea mays L.) and the rice (Oryza sativa L.) strains. The corn strain also is found in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) and sorghum and the rice strain in Bermuda grass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers.] and millet. In the United States and Brazil, lines from corn, rice, Bermuda grass, and millet were used to evaluate the resistance of both strains to various insecticides, and found that the corn strain is more resistant than the rice strain. However, in these studies the larvae were not genotyped. In Colombia, genotyping of fall armyworm is necessary because the rice strain also can be found in corn fields. In this work, collected larvae from corn and rice fields from Tolima (central Colombia) were genotyped and evaluated for the resistance to methomyl and lambda-cyhalothrin. We found that the rice strain does not significantly differ in resistance to methomyl compared with the corn strain but it develops tolerance more rapidly to lambda-cyhalothrin. The eggs viability of treated females also was significantly affected by methomyl on each generation. The realized heritability of resistance was higher for lambda-cyhalothrin (0.23-0.42) than for methomyl (0.04-0.14). The number of generations needed for 10-fold increase in resistance is approximately 11.5 generations for methomyl and 6.5 for lambda-cyhalothrin. Finally, the genetic basis of resistance to both insecticides involves few recessive autosomal genes. The results obtained here suggest that methomyl is a better option than lambda-cyalothin to control fall armyworm.
22066204	The transgenic Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) rice, Oryza sativa L., lines T(2A)-1 and T1c-19 expressing Cry2A* and Cry1C* from 'Minhui 63' (MH63) were evaluated for resistance to newly hatched and third-instar larvae of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), by using detached leaf laboratory bioassays. Both T(2A)-1 and T1c-19 rice showed high C. medinalis resistance; however, the lethal time (LT)50 of larvae fed with T(2A)-1 rice was significantly longer than that of larvae fed with T1c-19 rice, implying T1c-19 rice was more toxic to C. medinalis larvae. Larval mortality after 4 d on nitrogen-free MH63 was 25.5% compared with 2.4% mortality on high nitrogen fertilizer (250 kg N/ha) plants. Larval mortality on high nitrogen T(2A)-1 plants declined by 20% compared with nitrogen-free plants. However, resistance in T1c-19 plants was unaffected by nitrogen fertilizer. C. medinalis moths preferred MH63 at both the seedling and grain milk stages for oviposition but not the T1c-19 and T(2A)-1 Bt rice lines.
22066213	Dissolved organic matter (DOM) plays an important role in the process of mercury release from water body. In this study, the influence of DOM from different sources (DOM(R), DOM(S) and DOM(H), extracted from rice straw, compost and humic soil respectively) on mercury reduction was investigated. The molecular weight distribution and chemical composition of DOM from each source were determined using ultrafiltration membrane technique and elemental analysis respectively. The result showed that mercury release from DOM-added samples was much lower than the control; the lowest mercury release flux was observed in the treatment of DOM(H), 25.02% of the control, followed by DOM(S) and DOM(R), 62.46% and 64.95% of the control, respectively. The higher saturation degree and lower molecular weight of DOM(H) was responsible for the highest inhibition degree on the mercury release. The link between DOM(H), concentration and mercury flux was also estimated and the result showed that mercury flux was increased with DOM(H) at lower concentration, while decreased with DOM(H) at higher concentration. Different mechanism dominated the influence of DOM on mercury release with variation of DOM concentration.
22067109	The heavy metal cadmium (Cd) is toxic to humans, and its accumulation in rice grains is a major agricultural problem. Rice has seven putative metal transporter NRAMP genes, but microarray analysis showed that only OsNRAMP1 is highly up-regulated by iron (Fe) deficiency. OsNRAMP1 localized to the plasma membrane and transported Cd as well as Fe. OsNRAMP1 expression was observed mainly in roots and was higher in the roots of a high-Cd-accumulating cultivar (Habataki) than in those of a low-Cd-accumulating cultivar (Sasanishiki). The amino acid sequence of OsNRAMP1 in the Sasanishiki and Habataki cultivars was found to be 100% identical. These results suggest that OsNRAMP1 participates in cellular Cd uptake and that the differences observed in Cd accumulation among cultivars are because of differences in OsNRAMP1 expression levels in roots.
22067437	In this paper, cellulose from brown-rot fungus Fomitopsis sp. RCK2010, thermostable and alkalostable xylanase from Bacillus pumilus MK001 and laccase from Ganoderma sp. rckk-02 were evaluated for (i) saccharification of alkali pretreated rice straw and wheat straw, (ii) upgradation of chick feed and (iii) decolorization of dyes, respectively. The cellulose from brown-rot fungus resulted in a sugar release of 151.48 and 214.11 mg/g, respectively, from rice straw and wheat straw, which was comparatively higher than the earlier reports. While xylan, one of the main anti-nutritional factors (ANFs) present in the chick feed was removed to an extent of 11.6 mg/g xylose sugars at 50°C using the thermostable xylanase. Besides, the treatment with thermostable xylanase also brought about a release of 0.85 (mg/g) of soluble phosphorous. Moreover, the laccase when used for the decolorization of Remazol Brilliant Blue R (RBBR) and xylidine ponceau cause almost complete decolorization in 2 and 4h, respectively, depicting high rate of decolorization.
22067578	Wild food plants are a critical component in the subsistence system of rice farmers in Northeast Thailand. One of the important characteristics of wild plant foods among farming households is that the main collection locations are increasingly from anthropogenic ecosystems such as agricultural areas rather than pristine ecosystems. This paper provides selected results from a study of wild food conducted in several villages in Northeast Thailand. A complete botanical inventory of wild food plants from these communities and surrounding areas is provided including their diversity of growth forms, the different anthropogenic locations were these species grow and the multiplicity of uses they have. Data was collected using focus groups and key informant interviews with women locally recognized as knowledgeable about contemporarily gathered plants. Plant species were identified by local taxonomists. A total of 87 wild food plants, belonging to 47 families were reported, mainly trees, herbs (terrestrial and aquatic) and climbers. Rice fields constitute the most important growth location where 70% of the plants are found, followed by secondary woody areas and home gardens. The majority of species (80%) can be found in multiple growth locations, which is partly explained by villagers moving selected species from one place to another and engaging in different degrees of management. Wild food plants have multiple edible parts varying from reproductive structures to vegetative organs. More than two thirds of species are reported as having diverse additional uses and more than half of them are also regarded as medicine. This study shows the remarkable importance of anthropogenic areas in providing wild food plants. This is reflected in the great diversity of species found, contributing to the food and nutritional security of rice farmers in Northeast Thailand.
22067990	Ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation has been well demonstrated as a key regulatory mechanism in response to drought stress in Arabidopsis. However, the biological function of most E3 ligase genes in drought response is still unknown in rice. We recently showed that OsDIS1 (Oryza sativa drought-induced SINA protein 1), a SINA type E3 ligase, is involved in the drought-stress signal transduction in rice. OsDIS1 plays a negative role in drought stress tolerance through the transcriptional regulation of diverse stress-related genes and also possibly through the posttranslational regulation of its interacting protein OsNek6 in rice. Here we also show that OsDIS1 interacts with OsSKIPa, a drought and salt stress positive regulator in rice. Based on these results, we propose a working model for the function of OsDIS1 in regulating the stress signaling pathway in rice.
22068263	A study was conducted to investigate the contribution of β-cyanoalanine synthase (CAS) to the botanical metabolism of free cyanide and iron cyanides. Seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. XZX 45) were grown hydroponically and then amended with free cyanide (KCN) or ferri-cyanide [K(3)Fe(CN)(6)] into the growth media. Total cyanide, free cyanide, and Fe(3+)/Fe(2+) in aqueous solution were analyzed to identify the speciation of K(3)Fe(CN)(6). Activity of CAS in different parts of the rice seedlings was also assayed in vivo and results indicated that dissociation of K(3)Fe(CN)(6) to free cyanide in solution was negligible. Almost all of the applied KCN was removed by rice seedlings and the metabolic rates were concentration dependent. Phyto-transport of K(3)Fe(CN)(6) was apparent, but appreciable amounts of cyanide were recovered in plant tissues. The metabolic rates of K(3)Fe(CN)(6) were also positively correlated to the concentrations supplied. Rice seedlings exposed to KCN showed a considerable increase in the CAS activity and roots had higher CAS activity than shoots, indicating that CAS plays an important role in the botanical assimilation of KCN. However, no measurable change of CAS activity in different parts of rice seedlings exposed to K(3)Fe(CN)(6) was detected, suggesting that K(3)Fe(CN)(6) is likely metabolized by rice directly through an unknown pathway rather than the β-cyanoalanine pathway.
22068491	In this study, cephalosporin C production by Acremonium chrysogenum M35 cultured with crude glycerol instead of rice oil and methionine was investigated. The addition of crude glycerol increased cephalosporin C production by 6-fold in shake-flask culture, and also the amount of cysteine. In fed-batch culture without methionine, crude glycerol resulted only in overall improvement in cephalosporin C production (about 700%). In addition, A. chrysogenum M35 became highly differentiated in fed-batch culture with crude glycerol, compared with the differentiation in batch culture. The results presented here suggest that crude glycerol can replace methionine and plant oil as cysteine and carbon sources during cephalosporin C production by A. chrysogenum M35.
22071266	Abscisic acid (ABA) is a phytohormone that positively regulates seed dormancy and stress tolerance. PYL/RCARs were identified an intracellular ABA receptors regulating ABA-dependent gene expression in Arabidopsis thaliana. However, their function in monocot species has not been characterized yet. Herein, it is demonstrated that PYL/RCAR orthologues in Oryza sativa function as a positive regulator of the ABA signal transduction pathway. Transgenic rice plants expressing OsPYL/RCAR5, a PYL/RCAR orthologue of rice, were found to be hypersensitive to ABA during seed germination and early seedling growth. A rice ABA signalling unit composed of OsPYL/RCAR5, OsPP2C30, SAPK2, and OREB1 for ABA-dependent gene regulation was further identified, via interaction assays and a transient gene expression assay. Thus, a core signalling unit for ABA-responsive gene expression modulating seed germination and early seedling growth in rice has been unravelled. This study provides substantial contributions toward understanding the ABA signal transduction pathway in rice.
22071438	In order to investigate the transport behavior and rice uptake of radiostrontium and radiocesium in flooded rice fields, lysimeter experiments with two paddy soils were performed in a greenhouse. A solution containing (85)Sr and (137)Cs was applied in two different ways - being mixed with the top soil 27 d before transplanting or being dropped to the surface water 1d after transplanting. Rice uptake was quantified with two kinds of transfer factor - TF(m) (dimensionless) and TF(a) (m(2)kg(-1)-dry) for the pre- and post-transplanting depositions, respectively. For brown rice, the TF(m) values of (85)Sr and (137)Cs differed between the soils by factors of 2 (1.6×10(-2) and 2.5×10(-2)) and 7 (2.2×10(-2) and 1.5×10(-1)), respectively. Corresponding factors by the TF(a) values were 2 (2.5×10(-4) and 4.4×10(-4)) for (85)Sr and 3 (1.1×10(-3) and 2.9×10(-3)) for (137)Cs. Straws had several times higher TF(m) and TF(a) values of (85)Sr than of (137)Cs. The surface-water concentrations were substantially higher for the TF(a) than for the TF(m), indicating the possibility of a much higher plant-base uptake for the TF(a). In the TF(a) soils, (137)Cs and, to a lesser degree, (85)Sr were severely localized towards the soil surface, probably leading to an increased root uptake. The activity loss due to plant uptake and water percolation was generally inconsiderable. Time-dependent K(d) values of (85)Sr measured in a parallel experiment ranged from 20 to 170, whereas (137)Cs had much higher K(d) values. The use of TF(a) values instead of TF(m) values turned out to be a reasonable approach to the evaluation of a vegetation-period deposition.
22071608	The authenticity of food is of increasing importance for producers, retailers and consumers. All groups benefit from the correct labelling of the contents of food products. Producers and retailers want to guarantee the origin of their products and check for adulteration with cheaper or inferior ingredients. Consumers are also more demanding about the origin of their food for various socioeconomic reasons. In contrast to this increasing demand, correct labelling has become much more complex because of global transportation networks of raw materials and processed food products. Within the European integrated research project 'Tracing the origin of food' (TRACE), a DNA-based multiplex detection tool was developed-the padlock probe ligation and microarray detection (PPLMD) tool. In this paper, this method is extended to a 15-plex traceability tool with a focus on products of commercial importance such as the emmer wheat Farro della Garfagnana (FdG) and Basmati rice. The specificity of 14 plant-related padlock probes was determined and initially validated in mixtures comprising seven or nine plant species/varieties. One nucleotide difference in target sequence was sufficient for the distinction between the presence or absence of a specific target. At least 5% FdG or Basmati rice was detected in mixtures with cheaper bread wheat or non-fragrant rice, respectively. The results suggested that even lower levels of (un-)intentional adulteration could be detected. PPLMD has been shown to be a useful tool for the detection of fraudulent/intentional admixtures in premium foods and is ready for the monitoring of correct labelling of premium foods worldwide.
22072076	Four, rumen fistulated crossbred (Brahman × native) beef cattle steers were randomly assigned to receive four dietary treatments according to a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement in a 4 × 4 Latin square design. Factor A was carbohydrate source; cassava chip (CC) or CC + rice bran at a ratio 3:1 (CR3:1) and Factor B was cotton seed meal level (CM); and 109 g CP/kg (LCM) and 328 g CP/kg (HCM) at similar overall CP levels (490 g CP/kg). The animals were fed 5 g concentrate/kg BW, and urea-treated rice straw (UTS) (50 g urea/kg DM) was fed ad libitum. Carbohydrate source did not affect feed intake, nutrient digestibility, blood urea nitrogen, rumen fermentation, or microbial protein synthesis; however, animals fed with CC had a higher population of total viable bacteria than the CR3:1 treatment (P<0.05). Animals that received HCM had a lower total feed intake while ruminal pH was higher than the LCM fed treatment (P<0.05). The population of total viable and cellulolytic bacteria in animals that received HCM were lower than the LCM fed treatment (P<0.05). Moreover, use of HCM in beef cattle diets resulted in lower microbial protein synthesis when compared with the LCM fed treatment (P<0.05) although efficiency of microbial protein synthesis was nonsignificantly different among treatments. Therefore, cassava chip combined with rice bran can be used in a concentrate diet for beef cattle. It is also noted that a high level of cotton seed meal in the concentrate may impact rumen fermentation and animal performance.
22072367	The aim was to compare the differences in feelings of hunger and satiety in a group of overweight/obese women after eating a test meal with or without bread. The study included 122 women (BMI≥25<40 kg/m²) who were randomly assigned to consume one of the following test meals: NO BREAD meal (2.40 MJ, 46% carbohydrates, 26% protein, 28% fat; which included rice or pasta) and BREAD meal (2.39 MJ, with equal caloric distribution and the same foods except with bread instead of rice or pasta). A visual analogue scale (VAS) was used, with 5 questions to be answered at different times: 1) just before eating, 2) just after eating and exactly 3) 60 and 4) 90 minutes after eating the test meal. The test was performed at the start and after 16 weeks of following a lifestyle modification program based on a low-calorie diet (with or without bread). 104 women completed the study (48.4±9.0 years) with a baseline BMI of 29.8±3.5 kg/m². At the start of the study there were no significant differences in any of the VAS parameters measured between the groups. After 16 weeks, BREAD group obtained higher scores in question 3 (referring to the sensation of satiety) that were significant at time 3 (7 versus 5; p<0.05) and time 4 (8 versus 4; p<0.01). The inclusion of bread in a low-calorie meal may result in a greater sensation of satiety after eating. These results contradict the recommendation to exclude bread from a food plan aimed at weight loss.
22072371	Nowadays the school canteen occupies a central place in the supply and in the nutritional education of the children in school age. To assess the nutritional adequacy of the school menus and the food intake of the children. 1,500 trays were selected in six school dining rooms of Biscay. Dietary intake was evaluated by means of the technique of double weighed and visual estimation of the residues. Evaluation of the menus: Macronutrients: carbohydrates 48%, proteins 20%, lipids 32%. Weekly offer: The first plate: vegetables 1.1; legumes 1.8; potatoes 0.4; pasta-rice 1.7. The second plate: meat 2.5; fish 1.4; eggs 0.6; precooked fried food 0.5. Garnish: potatoes 0.5; sauces 0.8; lettuce 1.7; cooked vegetables 1; no garnish 1. Dessert: fruit 2.8; dairy product 2; other 0.2. Significant changes have been observed in 4% of the menus. The vegetable garnish is not served in 40% of the occasions. 70% do not eat the vegetable garnish. Though the theoretical offer of vegetables is appropriate, due to the fact that frequently the vegetables are not served in garnish and to that when they are served children do not eat them, their final intake is poor. The protein contribution to the diet is higher than the recommended. Meaningful changes take place often in the composition of the menus.
22072914	The objective of this study was to identify Fusarium species in the Gibberella fujikuroi species complex from rice, sugarcane and maize as most of the Fusarium species in the species complex are found on the three crops. Isolates used were collected from the field and obtained from culture collection. The Fusarium isolates were initially sorted based on morphology and identifications confirmed based on the DNA sequence of the translation elongation factor 1-α (TEF-1α) gene. Based on the closest match of BLAST analysis, five species were recovered, namely, F. sacchari, F. fujikuroi, F. proliferatum, F. andiyazi and F. verticillioides. This is the first report regarding F. andiyazi from rice in Malaysia and Southeast Asia. The phylogenetic tree generated by using the neighbor joining method showed that isolates from the same species were grouped in the same clade. The present study indicated that Fusarium species in the G. fujikuroi species complex are widespread in rice, sugarcane and maize in Peninsular Malaysia. The findings also suggest that the use of morphological characters for identification of Fusarium species in the G. fujikuroi species complex from the three crops will lead to incorrect species designation.
22072935	Phenolic acids have been identified in a variety of legumes including lima bean, broad bean, common bean, pea, jack bean, goa bean, adzuki bean, hyacinth bean, chicking vetch, garbanzo bean, dral, cow bean, rice bean, mung bean and soybean. The present study was carried out with the following aims: (1) to identify and quantify the individual phenolic acid and determine the total phenolic content (TPC); (2) to assess their antioxidant activity, inhibition activities of α-glucosidase, tyrosinase, and formation of advanced glycation endproducts; and (3) to investigate correlations among the phytochemicals and biological activity. Common bean possesses the highest antioxidant activity and advanced glycation endproducts formation inhibition activity. Adzuki bean has the highest α-glucosidase inhibition activity, and mung bean has the highest tyrosinase inhibition activity. There are significant differences in phytochemical content and functional activities among the bean species investigated. Selecting beans can help treat diseases such as dermatological hyperpigmentation illness, type 2 diabetes and associated cardiovascular diseases.
22073627	Tropical soils are particularly vulnerable to fertility losses due to their low capacity to retain organic matter and mineral nutrients. This urges the development of new agricultural practices to manage mineral nutrients and organic matter in a more sustainable way while relying less on fertilizer inputs. Two methods pertaining to ecological engineering and agroecology have been tested with some success: (1) the addition of biochar to the soil, and (2) the maintenance of higher earthworm densities. However, modern crop varieties have been selected to be adapted to agricultural practices and to the soil conditions they lead to and common cultivars might not be adapted to new practices. Using rice as a model plant, we compared the responsiveness to biochar and earthworms of five rice cultivars with contrasted selection histories. These cultivars had contrasted responsivenesses to earthworms, biochar, and the combination of both. The mean relative increase in grain biomass, among all treatments and cultivars, was 94% and 32%, respectively, with and without fertilization. Choosing the best combination of cultivar and treatment led to a more than fourfold increase in this mean benefit (a 437% and a 353% relative increase in grain biomass, respectively, with and without fertilization). Besides, the more rustic cultivar, a local landrace adapted to diverse and difficult conditions, responded the best to earthworms in terms of total biomass, while a modern common cultivar responded the best in term of grain biomass. This suggests that cultivars could be selected to amplify the benefit of biochar- and earthworm-based practices. Overall, selecting new cultivars interacting more closely with soil organisms and soil heterogeneity could increase agriculture sustainability, fostering the positive feedback loop between soils and plants that has evolved in natural ecosystems.
22074207	Triphenyltin (TPhT) is a biocide used worldwide in agriculture, especially in rice crop farming. The distribution and dissipation of TPhT in rice fields, as well as uptake of TPhT and other phenyltin compounds (monophenyltin, MPhT, and diphenyltin, DPhT) is still unknown at present. In this study, speciation analysis of phenyltin compounds was carried out in soil and water from a rice field where TPhT was applied during rice seeding according to legal application rates in Brazil. The results indicate the degradation of biocide and distribution of tin species into soil and water. To evaluate whether TPhT is taken up by plants, rice plants were exposed to three different TPhT application rates in a controlled mesocosm during 7 weeks. After this period, tin speciation was determined in soil, roots, leaves, and grains of rice. Degradation of TPhT was observed in soil, where DPhT and MPhT were detected. MPhT, DPhT, and TPhT were also detected in the roots of plants exposed to all TPhT application rates. Only TPhT was detected in leaves and at relatively low concentration, suggesting selective transport of TPhT in the xylem, in contrast to DPhT and MPhT. Concentration of phenyltin species in rice grains was lower than the limit of detection, suggesting that rice plants do not have the capability to take up TPhT from soil and transport it to the grains.
22074336
22074346	Magnaporthe oryzae causes rice blast disease, which is the most serious disease of cultivated rice worldwide. We previously developed the Magnaporthe grisea-Orzya sativa (MGOS) database as a repository for the M. oryzae and rice genome sequences together with a comprehensive set of functional interaction data generated by a major consortium of U.S. researchers. The MGOS database has now undergone a major redesign to include data from the international blast research community, accessible with a new intuitive, easy-to-use interface. Registered database users can manually annotate gene sequences and features as well as add mutant data and literature on individual gene pages. Over 900 genes have been manually curated based on various biological databases and the scientific literature. Gene names and descriptions, gene ontology annotations, published and unpublished information on mutants and their phenotypes, responses in diverse microarray analyses, and related literature have been incorporated. Thus far, 362 M. oryzae genes have associated information on mutants. MGOS is now poised to become a one-stop repository for all structural and functional data available on all genes of this critically important rice pathogen.
22075022	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) causes bacterial leaf streak (BLS) in rice, an emerging and destructive disease worldwide. Identification of key virulence factors is a prerequisite for understanding the pathogenesis of Xoc. In this study, a Tn5-tagged mutant library of Xoc strain RS105 was screened on rice, and 27 Tn5 mutants were identified that were either non-pathogenic or showed reduced virulence in rice. Fourteen of the non-pathogenic mutants were also unable to elicit the hypersensitive response (HR) in tobacco and were designated Pth(-)/HR(-) mutants; 13 mutants showed attenuated virulence and were able to induce an HR (Vir(-)/HR(+)). Sequence analysis of the Tn5-tagged genes indicated that the 14 Pth(-)/HR(-) mutants included mutations in hrcC, hrcT, hrcV, hpaP, hrcQ, hrpF, hrpG and hrpX. The 13 Vir(-)/HR(+) mutants included tal-C10c-like (a transcriptional activator-like TAL effector), rpfC (regulator of pathogenicity factors), oxyR (oxidative stress transcriptional regulator), dsbC (disulfide isomerase), opgH (glucan biosynthesis glucosyltransferase H), rfbA (glucose-1-phosphate thymidylyltransferase), amtR (aminotransferase), purF (amidophosphoribosyltransferase), thrC (threonine synthase), trpA (tryptophan synthase alpha subunit) and three genes encoding hypothetical proteins (Xoryp_02235, Xoryp_00885 and Xoryp_22910). Collectively, the 27 Tn5 insertions are located in 21 different open reading frames. Bacterial growth and in planta virulence assays demonstrated that opgH, purF, thrC, trpA, Xoryp_02235, Xoryp_00885 and Xoryp_22910 are candidate virulence genes involved in Xoc pathogenesis. Reduced virulence in 13 mutants was restored to wild-type levels when the cognate gene was introduced in trans. Expression profiles demonstrated that the seven candidate virulence genes were significantly induced in planta, although their roles in Xoc pathogenesis remain unclear.
22076247	Adsorptive loss of human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4-immunoglobulin (hCTLA4Ig) in transgenic rice cell suspension cultures was investigated using glass flasks, plastic flasks, disposable vessels, and stainless steel vessels. When hCTLA4Ig was added to the glass flasks containing sterile AA medium, a rapid decrease in the concentration of hCTLA4Ig, independent on pH, was observed resulting in more than 90% of the protein loss within 1 h due to the surface adsorption. When the same experiments were performed on four different types of culture equipments mentioned above, the lowest adsorption level was observed in the plastic flasks and the highest level was observed in the glass flasks. The use of the plastic flasks retarded the adsorptive loss of hCTLA4Ig at the early stage of the protein production. There was a significant increase in the production of hCTLA4Ig when the flasks were coated with bovine serum albumin. However, the spike test of purified hCTLA4Ig at two different concentrations of 15 and 100 mg L(-1) in 500-mL spinner flasks confirmed that the amount of hCTLA4Ig adsorbed was dependent on the surface area of the flasks but not on the concentrations. In conclusion, although the protein adsorption affected the total amount of the protein yielded to some extent, it could be regarded as a minor factor in transgenic plant cell cultures with higher titer.
22077171	Summary In this paper the hypothesis put forward by J. C. Caldwell in a number of recent articles, including one in this journal is tested, that there are social and economic increasing returns to scale to family size. Using two village samples of household data collected in Bangladesh in 1977, it is shown that there is a statistically significant inverse correlation between adjusted consumption of rice per head and family size. This result holds true when age and size of landholding are taken into account. From this, it is concluded that the hypothesis is not empirically supported by the data from Bangladesh. This result is partially explained by the extreme poverty of the region and the fact that women are exploited in Bangladesh society.
22077597	Illumination-induced greening in dark-grown plants is one of the most dramatic developmental processes known in plants. In our current study, we characterized the greening process of rice seedlings using comparative proteome analysis. We identified 886 different proteins in both whole cell lysates of illuminated and nonilluminated rice shoots and performed comparative proteome analysis based on the MS spectral intensities obtained for unique peptides from respective proteins. Furthermore, the changes in the levels of individual proteins were then compared with those of the corresponding mRNAs. The results revealed well-coordinated increases in the enzymes involved in the Calvin cycle at both the protein and mRNA levels during greening, and that the changes at the mRNA level precede those at the protein level. Although a much lower effect of illumination was found on the enzymes associated with glycolysis and the TCA cycle, coordinated increases during greening were evident for the enzymes involved in photorespiration and nitrogen assimilation as well as the components of the chloroplastic translational machinery. These results thus define the differential regulation of distinct biological systems during greening in rice and demonstrate the usefulness of comprehensive and comparative proteome analysis for the characterization of biological processes in plant cells.
22077667	The central structure of the symbiotic association between plants and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi is the fungal arbuscule that delivers minerals to the plant. Our earlier transcriptome analyses identified two half-size ABCG transporters that displayed enhanced mRNA levels in mycorrhizal roots. We now show specific transcript accumulation in arbusculated cells of both genes during symbiosis. Presently, arbuscule-relevant factors from monocotyledons have not been reported. Mutation of either of the Oryza sativa (rice) ABCG transporters blocked arbuscule growth of different AM fungi at a small and stunted stage, recapitulating the phenotype of Medicago truncatula stunted arbuscule 1 and 2 (str1 and str2) mutants that are deficient in homologous ABCG genes. This phenotypic resemblance and phylogenetic analysis suggest functional conservation of STR1 and STR2 across the angiosperms. Malnutrition of the fungus underlying limited arbuscular growth was excluded by the absence of complementation of the str1 phenotype by wild-type nurse plants. Furthermore, plant AM signaling was found to be intact, as arbuscule-induced marker transcript accumulation was not affected in str1 mutants. Strigolactones have previously been hypothesized to operate as intracellular hyphal branching signals and possible substrates of STR1 and STR2. However, full arbuscule development in the strigolactone biosynthesis mutants d10 and d17 suggested strigolactones to be unlikely substrates of STR1/STR2. Interestingly, rice STR1 is associated with a cis-natural antisense transcript (antiSTR1). Analogous to STR1 and STR2, at the root cortex level, the antiSTR1 transcript is specifically detected in arbusculated cells, suggesting unexpected modes of STR1 regulation in rice.
22078114	The aim of this research was to evaluate possible toxic effects of commercial formulation containing fipronil on Cyprinus carpio tissues under rice field conditions. Antioxidant profile (SOD, catalase, glutathione S-transferase), oxidative stress parameters (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, protein carbonyl), and growth were investigated in carp exposed to fipronil under rice field conditions for 7, 30, and 90 days. Waterborne insecticide concentrations were measured and the detectable concentration of fipronil was observed up to 45 day after application. Common carp survival and growth was not affected by fipronil. Liver superoxide dismutase activity was enhanced while liver catalase activity was inhibited at 7, 30, and 90 days. Alterations were not observed in the glutathione S-transferase activity in any experimental periods. Protein carbonyl increased only after 30 and 90 days of exposure. The thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances levels were enhanced in all analyzed tissues (liver, muscle, and brain) and periods of exposure. This study demonstrates that fipronil insecticides cause alterations in the biochemical parameters in different tissues of carp without affecting the growth or the survival of the fish.
22078235	A new method based on matrix solid phase dispersion-capillary electrophoresis with electrochemiluminescence detection (MSPD-CE-ECL) has been developed for the simultaneous determination of three kinds of phenylurea herbicides (PHUs). Poly-β-cyclodextrin (poly-β-CD) was used as an additive in the running buffer to improve the separation of three analytes. The conditions for CE separation, ECL detection and effect of poly-β-CD were investigated in detail. Under the optimal conditions, three kinds of herbicides (isoproturon, linuron and diuron) were well separated and detected within 8 min. The linear ranges of the standard solution for isoproturon and linuron were 1-300 μg L(-1) with a detection limit (S/N=3) of 0.1 μg L(-1), and for diuron was 2-500 μg L(-1) with a detection limit of 0.2 μg L(-1). The average recoveries were in the range of 86.9-102.8%, and all relative standard deviation of the migration time and the ECL intensity in intraday and interday were less than 9.0%. The proposed method was also applied to the determination of three kinds of herbicides in green vegetable and rice samples with recoveries in the range from 78.1 to 93.8%.
22078375	The DREB and CBF transcription factors play a critical role in plant development and abiotic stress responses and, therefore, represent attractive targets for a molecular plant breeding approach. In this study, the rice OsDREB2A gene was isolated and expressed under the control of a stress-inducible promoter (4ABRC) to improve the abiotic stress tolerance of japonica rice variety TNG67. T₂ and T₃ transgenic lines over-expressing OsDREB2A were found to have improved survival rates under severe drought and salt stress conditions relative to non-transgenic rice plants or rice plants transformed with the empty vector control. OsDREB2A expression was found to be markedly induced by drought and ABA treatment. The results indicate that the induced over-expression of OsDREB2A driven by the 4ABRC promoter in engineered rice plants may protect cells during stress.
22078377	The characterisation of cellular responses to salinity in staple crops is necessary for the reliable identification of physiological markers of salinity tolerance. Under saline conditions, variations in proton gradients that are generated by membrane-bound H⁺ pumps are crucial for maintaining cytoplasm homeostasis. We examined short (15 h) and longer term effects (4 days) of NaCl stress on the H⁺ pumping activities that are associated with the plasma membrane (P-ATPase) and the tonoplast (V-ATPase and V-PPase) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) callus lines that displayed different levels of NaCl tolerance and were established from two japonica rice cultivars. The applied stress conditions were based on those that were used in the induction of a stress-responsive polyubiquitin gene promoter (UBI1) in transgenic rice calli. The most remarkable effect of NaCl stress on H⁺ pumping was the rapid activation of tonoplast-bound pumps; this was particularly observed in cv. Bomba, in which the response of the P-ATPase was slower and showed a higher level of activity after 4 days of stress. The responses were cultivar-dependent; however, in general, a stronger activation occurred in the lines that had a higher tolerance (L-T) than in the less-tolerant (L-S) lines. Substrate hydrolysis was less affected than H⁺ pumping, and it yielded higher H⁺/substrate coupling ratios, which is indicative of an enhanced H⁺ pumping efficiency under saline conditions. The Na⁺/H⁺ antiport activity was generally limited to salt-stressed calli, and higher values and stronger activation of the tonoplast antiporter were observed in the L-T lines than in the L-S lines. The results that were obtained with the NaCl-stressed transgenic lines confirmed the close relationship between metabolic activity, H⁺ pumping and the induction of Na⁺/H⁺ exchange activities.
22079212	We have developed Random Inducible Controlled Expression (RICE), a high throughput genetic approach to identify regulated virulence pathways in pathogenic mycobacteria. RICE allows expression of bacterial genes under conditions where they are normally off, e.g. under laboratory growth conditions, via the use of an inducible or constitutive promoter as well as gene dosage effects due to the presence of the gene on a plasmid. Mycobacterial genomic DNA can be digested to yield random fragments for cloning into a suicide expression vector downstream of a mycobacterial promoter or with their own promoter on a replicating plasmid increasing expression by gene dosage effects. The plasmid DNA is normally amplified in Escherichia coli and delivered into mycobacteria to select for recombinants or plasmid transformants. The resulting library is then directly screened for enhanced host cell interactions in functional assays that evaluate the efficiency of adherence, entry and replication inside host cells. This approach has resulted in identification of several virulence factors from pathogenic mycobacteria. Our analysis of one such locus identified by RICE, the mycobacterial enhanced entry locus (mel2), found that the genes present facilitate bacterial persistence inside the host by protecting the pathogen against oxidative damage. Thus, we have developed a genetic strategy that offers several advantages: (i) it allows identification of bacterial genetic elements that have a direct role during host-pathogen interactions (ii) it can be used to identify virulence factors in a broad range of pathogens and (iii) it can reveal genes that are only induced at specific stages of infection.
22079545	The plant hormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) can be synthesized from tryptophan via the intermediate indole-3-acetamide (IAM). The two genes, IaaM (encoding tryptophan monooxygenase) and IaaH (encoding indole-3-acetamide hydrolase) that constitute the IAM pathway have been described in plant-associated bacteria. We have identified putative homologs of the bacterial IaaM and IaaH genes in four Fusarium species -Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium verticillioides, Fusarium fujikuroi, and Fusarium oxysporum. In all four species the two genes are organized next to each other in a head to head orientation and are separated by a short non-coding region. However, the pathway is fully functional only in the orchid endophytic strain F. proliferatum ET1, which produces significant amounts of IAM and IAA. Minor amounts of IAM are produced by the corn pathogen F. verticillioides strain 149, while in the two other species, the rice pathogen F. fujikuroi strain m567 and the tomato pathogen F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici strain 42-87 the IAM pathway is inactive. Deletion of the entire gene locus in F. proliferatum ET1 resulted in drastic reduction of IAA production. Conversely, transgenic strains of F. fujikuroi over-expressing the F. proliferatum IAM genes produced elevated levels of both IAM and IAA. Analysis of the intergenic promoter region in F. proliferatum showed that transcriptional activation in direction of the IaaH gene is about 3-fold stronger than in direction of the IaaM gene. The regulation of the IAM genes and the limiting factors of IAA production via the IAM pathway are discussed.
22079568	The prediction of the translation initiation site in an mRNA or cDNA sequence is an essential step in gene prediction and an open research problem in bioinformatics. Although recent approaches perform well, more effective and reliable methodologies are solicited. We developed an adaptable data mining method, called StackTIS, which is modular and consists of three prediction components that are combined into a meta-classification system, using stacked generalization, in a highly effective framework. We performed extensive experiments on sequences of two diverse eukaryotic organisms (Homo sapiens and Oryza sativa), indicating that StackTIS achieves statistically significant improvement in performance.
22080374	Low temperature is one of the major environmental stresses in rice cultivation in high-altitude and high-latitude regions. In this study, we cultivated a set of recombinant inbred lines (RIL) derived from Dasanbyeo (indica) / TR22183 (japonica) crosses in Yanji (high-latitude area), Kunming (high-altitude area), Chuncheon (cold water irrigation) and Suwon (normal) to evaluate the main effects of quantitative trait loci (QTL) and epistatic QTL (E-QTL) with regard to their interactions with environments for cold-related traits. Six QTLs for spikelet fertility (SF) were identified in three cold treatment locations. Among them, four QTLs on chromosomes 2, 7, 8, and 10 were validated by several near isogenic lines (NILs) under cold treatment in Chuncheon. A total of 57 QTLs and 76 E-QTLs for nine cold-related traits were identified as distributing on all 12 chromosomes; among them, 19 QTLs and E-QTLs showed significant interactions of QTLs and environments (QEIs). The total phenotypic variation explained by each trait ranged from 13.2 to 29.1% in QTLs, 10.6 to 29.0% in EQTLs, 2.2 to 8.8% in QEIs and 1.0% to 7.7% in E-QTL × environment interactions (E-QEIs). These results demonstrate that epistatic effects and QEIs are important properties of QTL parameters for cold tolerance at the reproductive stage. In order to develop cold tolerant varieties adaptable to wide-ranges of cold stress, a strategy facilitating marker-assisted selection (MAS) is being adopted to accumulate QTLs identified from different environments.
22080597	The presence of the centromere-specific histone H3 variant, CENH3, defines centromeric (CEN) chromatin, but poorly understood epigenetic mechanisms determine its establishment and maintenance. CEN chromatin is embedded within pericentromeric heterochromatin in most higher eukaryotes, but, interestingly, it can show euchromatic characteristics; for example, the euchromatic histone modification mark dimethylated H3 Lys 4 (H3K4me2) is uniquely associated with animal centromeres. To examine the histone marks and chromatin properties of plant centromeres, we developed a genomic tiling array for four fully sequenced rice (Oryza sativa) centromeres and used chromatin immunoprecipitation-chip to study the patterns of four euchromatic histone modification marks: H3K4me2, trimethylated H3 Lys 4, trimethylated H3 Lys 36, and acetylated H3 Lys 4, 9. The vast majority of the four histone marks were associated with genes located in the H3 subdomains within the centromere cores. We demonstrate that H3K4me2 is not a ubiquitous component of rice CEN chromatin, and the euchromatic characteristics of rice CEN chromatin are hallmarks of the transcribed sequences embedded in the centromeric H3 subdomains. We propose that the transcribed sequences located in rice centromeres may provide a barrier preventing loading of CENH3 into the H3 subdomains. The separation of CENH3 and H3 subdomains in the centromere core may be favorable for the formation of three-dimensional centromere structure and for rice centromere function.
22081170	A descriptive cross sectional study was done in the department of Pediatrics Mymensingh Medical College Hospital. The purpose of the study was to assess breast feeding pattern, complementary feeding pattern, types of complementary foods and also to assess the nutritional status and to detect any relationship with the nutritional status and the feeding practices. Mothers with their children aged less than 2 years were included and very sick children, mother less children, handicapped children were excluded. Four hundred (400) consecutive children were enrolled from eight upazillas of Mymensingh district who were selected randomly. Out of 400 children, 214 children (53.5%) were male and 186 children (47.5%) were female and M:F was 1.2:1. Exclusive breastfeeding rate was 41.5%. Pre-lacteal feeding rate were 30.7% and most common pre-lacteal foods were honey and sugar water. Colostrum was given in 69.3% children. Breast feeding continued at the time of interview was 58.1%. Complementary feeding started in time in 35.8%, early weaning in 44.5% children. Type of complementary food was mainly luta (rice powder mixed with boiled water and sugar only) in 38.8% and khichuri (rice, pulses, soybean oil) in 19.5%. Bottle feeding rate was 31.30%. Around 43% children were underweight and 10.25% children were severely underweight and common in between 12 to 23 months of age group. Around 29% children were stunted among 11.25% were severely stunted. About 13.5% children were wasted and among them 2.5% were severely wasted. Stunting prevalent over the age of 9 months and wasting started after 6 months of age. Malnutrition was common in partially breast fed and early weaning with carbohydrate rich food.
22081175	Bangladesh is a developing country. Many workers are involved in different industries which are polluted with dust e.g. saw mill, rice mill, jarda factory etc. The present study may give a preliminary idea about the lung function status of those workers. The study has been designed to analyze the lung function status of those workers by measuring TCO2 aiming to recommend necessary steps to improved the quality of life of workers of dust industry in our socioeconomic context. This study was to evaluate pulmonary functional status of those workers who are exposed to dust in industries like saw mill 26.00 mmol/l, rice mill 31.10 mmol/l and jarda factory 22.11 mmol/l. In all groups p values were >0.1 which was not significant except jarda factory worker in which p value was <0.001 and it was highly significant. This study was carried out to increase the awareness of the workers and to reduce the cost of employment.
22081281	The incidence of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (TB) has been rising due to the increasing number of immunosuppressed patients. Musculoskeletal system accounts for 25% of extrapulmonary TB. Most of the musculoskeletal TB involves the spine. TB of peripheral joints and tendons occur infrequently, but if untreated, it can cause serious joint and tendon destruction as well as spread of the infection to the surrounding bursa, muscle, and other soft tissues. The diagnosis of TB of joints and tendons is difficult due to the nonspecific clinical manifestations and imaging features. Concurrent active pulmonary TB is present in <50% of the patients. A positive chest radiographic finding or a positive tuberculin test supports the diagnosis, but negative results do not exclude diagnosis. Although imaging features of TB of joints and tendons are nonspecific, certain findings such as relatively preserved joint space, juxta-articular osteoporosis, cold abscesses, para-articular soft tissue calcification, and rice bodies are suggestive of TB infection. Familiarity with these imaging features can help in making an early diagnosis and facilitating proper management.
22081407	Culturable bacterial communities on rice plants were investigated from 2001 to 2003. In total, 1,394 bacterial isolates were obtained from the uppermost leaf sheaths at 1 month before heading time and from leaf sheaths and panicles at heading time. The average culturable bacterial population on the leaf sheaths was larger at heading time than at 1 month previously. Furthermore, the population was significantly larger on panicles than on leaf sheaths, suggesting that the bacterial population is influenced by the organs of rice plants. Larger proportions of bacteria were obtained from the macerates of leaf sheaths after washing with phosphate buffer, and most culturable bacteria were verified to inhabit the inside or inner surface, rather than the outer surface, of the tissues. Verification of the bacterial composition based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that genera of Sphingomonas, Microbacterium, Methylobacterium, and Acidovorax tended to be dominant colonizers on leaf sheaths, whereas Pseudomonas and Pantoea were isolated mainly from the panicles, indicating that leaf sheaths and panicles harbor distinct communities. Furthermore, the richness of bacterial genera was less on both leaf sheaths and panicles at heading time compared with that observed 1 month before heading time. Phylogenetic analyses using bacterial isolates belonging to the four dominant genera inhabiting leaf sheaths at heading time revealed that particular bacterial groups in each genus colonized the leaf sheaths.
22082884	Rice cake is a traditional but very popular food in Asia including Japan and has never been known as a cause of ileus. Rice cake is now becoming widespread in the United States and European countries along with other Japanese foods. We may encounter rice cake ileus all over the world. This study was aimed at characterizing the rice cake ileus. We consecutively encountered 14 patients with rice cake ileus from April 2003 to October 2010 in our hospital. All of the characteristics of the cases were reviewed and analyzed. All patients had ingested rice cake by swallowing without chewing. It has most frequently occurred in January (57.1%). The main symptoms were abdominal colicky pain (100%) and nausea (85.7%) and physical findings included abdominal tenderness (100%) and muscular defense (28.6%). All patients improved by conservative therapy including fluid supply (100%), naso-gastric tube (28.6%) and long tube (28.6%) insertion. No patient needed emergency open surgery. Rice cake ileus which is caused by swallowing the rice cake without chewing, frequently occurs in January, has previous history of abdominal surgery and shows high density intestinal contents on CT and only needs conservative therapy. Globalism in food culture may provide a new disease entity. Therefore, we should be aware of this type of ileus and be prepared to manage it appropriately.
22083132	Rathu Heenati (RHT) is a Sri Lankan rice cultivar that carries a brown planthopper (BPH) resistance gene, Bph3, and shows broad-spectrum resistance to all four biotypes of BPH. The BPH-resistance loci in RHT has been studied extensively and assigned to four different rice chromosomes (3, 4, 6, and 10) by different research groups, but the gene has not been cloned previously. An Affymetrix rice genome array containing 48,564 japonica and 1,260 indica sequences was used to analyze the potential resistance-related genes on the four chromosomes by comparative analysis of the differentially expressed genes between resistant and susceptible rice cultivars exposed to BPH attack. The microarray results showed that at least 17 genes related to induced resistance and at least 193 genes related to constitutive resistance in RHT. On chromosome 3, the AOC4 was hypothesized to be the most important candidate gene. On chromosome 6, no valuable candidate resistance gene was identified in the Bph3 localization region. In the three Quantitative trait locus regions of chromosomes 3, 4, and 10, the numbers of constitutive and induced resistance-related genes found were 17, 26, and 12, respectively. The major probe on chromosome 10 represents a constitutive expression gene with a very high absolute fold-change of 2,588.82. The microarray analysis indicated that BPH resistance in RHT is probably controlled by a series of resistance-related genes. This study provides valuable information for cloning, functional analysis and marker-assisted breeding of these BPH resistance genes.
22083356	Short-term submergence is a recurring problem in many rice production areas. The SUB1 gene, derived from the tolerant variety FR13A, has been transferred to a number of widely grown varieties, allowing them to withstand complete submergence for up to 2 weeks. However, in areas where longer-term submergence occurs, improved varieties having higher tolerance levels are needed. To search for novel quantitative trait loci (QTLs) from other donors, an F(2:3) population between IR72 and Madabaru, both moderately tolerant varieties, was investigated. After a repeated phenotyping of 466 families under submergence stress, a subset of 80 families selected from the two extreme phenotypic tails was used for the QTL analysis. Phenotypic data showed transgressive segregation, with several families having an even higher survival rate than the FR13A-derived tolerant check (IR40931). Four QTLs were identified on chromosomes 1, 2, 9, and 12; the largest QTL on chromosome 1 had a LOD score of 11.2 and R (2) of 52.3%. A QTL mapping to the SUB1 region on chromosome 9, with a LOD score of 3.6 and R (2) of 18.6%, had the tolerant allele from Madabaru, while the other three QTLs had tolerant alleles from IR72. The identification of three non-SUB1 QTLs from IR72 suggests that an alternative pathway may be present in this variety that is independent of the ethylene-dependent pathway mediated by the SUB1A gene. These novel QTLs can be combined with SUB1 using marker assisted backcrossing in an effort to enhance the level of submergence tolerance for flood-prone areas.
22083649	BAC FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization using bacterial artificial chromosome probes) is a useful cytogenetic technique for physical mapping, chromosome marker screening, and comparative genomics. As a large genomic fragment with repetitive sequences is inserted in each BAC clone, random BAC FISH without adding competitive DNA can unveil complex chromosome organization of the repetitive elements in plants. Here we performed the comparative analysis of the random BAC FISH in monocot plants including species having small chromosomes (rice and asparagus) and those having large chromosomes (hexaploid wheat, onion, and spider lily) in order to understand a whole view of the repetitive element organization in Poales and Asparagales monocots. More unique and less dense dispersed signals of BAC FISH were observed in species with smaller chromosomes in both the Poales and Asparagales species. In the case of large-chromosome species, 75-85% of the BAC clones were detected as dispersed repetitive FISH signals along entire chromosomes. The BAC FISH of Lycoris did not even show localized repetitive patterns (e.g., centromeric localization) of signals.
22083791	The creation of starch-based foods incorporated with functional ingredients such as probiotics is of great current interest in the food industry. This study aimed to investigate the effects of prebiotic oligosaccharides on the phase transition temperatures and rheological characteristics of waxy rice starch dispersions. Four oligosaccharides were applied to the rice starch dispersions: chitooligosaccharides, fructooligosaccharides, isomaltooligosaccharides and xylooligosaccharides. The addition of 125 g kg(-1) oligosaccharides elevated the onset and peak temperatures for gelatinisation of 200-400 g kg(-1) waxy rice starch dispersions. The temperature of the storage modulus (G') for gelatinisation increased markedly on adding fructooligosaccharides to 200-300 g kg(-1) waxy rice starch. For gelatinisation of 300 g kg(-1) rice starch dispersion the effectiveness of the oligosaccharides in changing the above parameters was as follows: chitooligosaccharides > fructooligosaccharides > isomaltooligosaccharides > xylooligosaccharides. Moreover, their effectiveness was dependent on the amylose content, as illustrated by comparing waxy and non-waxy rice starches (amylose contents 9-256 g kg(-1)). Importantly, the logarithmic G'(95) change was linearly and negatively correlated with amylose content. The results suggest that oligosaccharide-containing rice starch dispersions may potentially be used for the formulation of oligosaccharide-containing starchy functional foods owing to the rheological changes of these starch dispersions.
22083811	Rice bran, containing about 100-150 g kg(-1) protein, is a by-product of rice milling that has only become an available ingredient in recent years owing to the centralisation of rice milling. Rice bran, but not its protein fraction or hydrolysates, has been shown to have a hypocholesterolaemic effect. Peptides from soy, milk and other foods have been proposed to have hypocholesterolaemic effects based on their ability to lower cholesterol solubility in bile acid/phosphotidyl choline micelles. Rice bran protein hydrolysates (RBPHs) were prepared and investigated for their potential to lower cholesterol concentration in micelles. The RBPHs were produced by digestion using four different peptidases, alcalase 2.4L(®), neutrase 0.8L(®), papaya latex papain and porcine pancreas trypsin, and then fractionated by hydrophobicity using styrene/divinylbeneze resins. Alcalase 2.4L(®) produced the highest degree of hydrolysis, and the resulting hydrolysates had the highest micellar cholesterol inhibition ability in an in vitro hypocholesterolaemic test. The adsorption dynamics of four different macroporous resins, DA201-C, Sepabeads SP207 and SP825 and Diaion HP20, were determined using the Langmuir isotherm model. DA201-C had the highest adsorption capacity with an equilibrium concentration of 220 mg g(-1). The hydrolysates eluted with 25, 50, 75 and 95% (v/v) ethanol lowered the micellar cholesterol concentration by 11.88, 14.76, 19.37 and 7.56% respectively. A hydrophobic fraction of RBPH had the highest inhibitory activity on micellar cholesterol, which suggests that it may have hypocholesterolaemic properties.
22084110	For centuries, traditional agricultural systems have contributed to food and livelihood security throughout the world. Recognizing the ecological legacy in the traditional agricultural systems may help us develop novel sustainable agriculture. We examine how rice-fish coculture (RF), which has been designated a "globally important agricultural heritage system," has been maintained for over 1,200 y in south China. A field survey demonstrated that although rice yield and rice-yield stability are similar in RF and rice monoculture (RM), RF requires 68% less pesticide and 24% less chemical fertilizer than RM. A field experiment confirmed this result. We documented that a mutually beneficial relationship between rice and fish develops in RF: Fish reduce rice pests and rice favors fish by moderating the water environment. This positive relationship between rice and fish reduces the need for pesticides in RF. Our results also indicate a complementary use of nitrogen (N) between rice and fish in RF, resulting in low N fertilizer application and low N release into the environment. These findings provide unique insights into how positive interactions and complementary use of resource between species generate emergent ecosystem properties and how modern agricultural systems might be improved by exploiting synergies between species.
22084198	PLEXdb (http://www.plexdb.org), in partnership with community databases, supports comparisons of gene expression across multiple plant and pathogen species, promoting individuals and/or consortia to upload genome-scale data sets to contrast them to previously archived data. These analyses facilitate the interpretation of structure, function and regulation of genes in economically important plants. A list of Gene Atlas experiments highlights data sets that give responses across different developmental stages, conditions and tissues. Tools at PLEXdb allow users to perform complex analyses quickly and easily. The Model Genome Interrogator (MGI) tool supports mapping gene lists onto corresponding genes from model plant organisms, including rice and Arabidopsis. MGI predicts homologies, displays gene structures and supporting information for annotated genes and full-length cDNAs. The gene list-processing wizard guides users through PLEXdb functions for creating, analyzing, annotating and managing gene lists. Users can upload their own lists or create them from the output of PLEXdb tools, and then apply diverse higher level analyses, such as ANOVA and clustering. PLEXdb also provides methods for users to track how gene expression changes across many different experiments using the Gene OscilloScope. This tool can identify interesting expression patterns, such as up-regulation under diverse conditions or checking any gene's suitability as a steady-state control.
22084314	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) responds to the accumulation of unfolded proteins in its lumen (ER stress) by activating intracellular signal transduction pathways. These pathways are known as the ER stress response or the unfolded protein response. In this study, three rice basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors (OsbZIP39, OsbZIP50 and OsbZIP60) containing putative transmembrane domains (TMDs) in their C-terminal regions were identified as candidates of the ER stress sensor transducer. One of these proteins, OsbZIP39, was characterized in this study. OsbZIP39 was shown to associate with microsomes as a membrane-integrated protein using the subcellular fractionation method. When the full length and a truncated form of OsbZIP39 without the TMD (OsbZIP39ΔC) was fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and transfected into rice protoplasts, the proteins were identified in the cytoplasm and nucleus, respectively. This suggests that OsbZIP39 may be converted into a soluble truncated form by proteolytic cleavage and subsequently translocated to the nucleus. Expression of OsbZIP39ΔC clearly activated the binding protein 1 (BiP1) promoter in a rice protoplast transient assay. Overexpression of OsbZIP39ΔC in stable transgenic rice also led to the up-regulation of several ER stress response genes including BiP1 and OsbZIP50 in the absence of ER stress. However, in the OsbZIP39ΔC-overexpressing line, OsbZIP50 mRNA did not undergo IRE1 (inositol-requiring protein 1)-mediated cytoplasmic splicing that is required for its activation. These data indicate that OsbZIP39 may be directly involved in the regulation of several ER stress response genes.
2208469	This paper is a review of the interactions between agriculture and vector borne diseases. Rain forest clearing makes possible the development of heliophilous species of anophelines and snails leading to an increase of malaria and schistosomiasis in Africa. But in Asia, clearing is a control method against Anopheles balabacensis, an important malaria vector. Clearing of forest galleries is followed by the disappearance of shore-dwelling tsetse flies. Woodcutters and pioneer farmers are contaminated with arbovirus and leishmaniasis when entering in natural sylvatic foci of these diseases. Management of drinking water reduces guinea worm as well as cholera and other diarrhoeal diseases. More over when piped water becomes available people are no more obliged to store drinking water in containers where vectors use to breed. Reservoirs of dams offer large possibilities for the development of mosquitoes including anophelines vectors of malaria and filariasis and of snails hosts of schistosomiasis. The medical importance of these man-made breeding sites depends of the local epidemiological features of the diseases. Dam spillways provide breeding for blackflies and man-made foci of onchocerciasis have been described in West Africa. Irrigation channels mainly when non cleared of vegetation are good breeding places for anophelines and snails. Irrigated surfaces like rice fields are highly productive in anophelines and other dangerous species of Culicinae. Insecticides used in agriculture, mainly to control cotton and rice pests, have been at the origin of insecticide resistance of several anopheline species. On an other hand, sometimes rice pests control lead to the control of rice field mosquitoes until they become resistant, e.g. for Culex tritaeniorhynchus the vector of Japanese encephalitis in South Korea. Many international organizations have emphasized the role of intersectorial collaboration to control man-made vector borne diseases foci. Good planning of the infrastructures (e.g. twin spillways) and adequate maintenance are essential. Vector control in rice field is a puzzling question. Wet irrigation was a hope but it cannot be done everywhere. Biological control methods have not been proven to be very efficient. Even Bacillus thuringiensis H14 and B. sphaericus have severe limitation. New tools for intersectorial activities should be a goal for scientists imagination.
22085218	The present study aimed to assess the prevalence of Bacillus cereus and its associated risk factors in Chinese-style fried rice available in Colombo city. In 200 samples of fried rice the prevalence of B. cereus was 56%. The prevalence by variety of fried rice was chicken (20.0%), vegetable (18.0%), seafood (10.0%), egg (5.0%), mixed (2.0%), and beef (1.0%). Of analyzed samples, 28 (14%) had colony counts >10(6) colony forming units per gram (cfu/g), the infectious dose for B. cereus food borne outbreaks. Occurrence of >10(6) cfu/g of B. cereus were associated with storage of boiled rice at room temperature (p=0.030), >4 hours of storage at room temperature (p=0.042) and cooking frequency of more than once per dining session (p=0.017). The type of rice and the quantity boiled per day were not independent risk factors for high B. cereus counts. Majority of B. cereus isolates (53.7%) in this study were not typable. The serotypes observed included H15 (14.3%), H19 (14.3%), and H20 (10.7%). These serotypes are known to be associated with both emetic and diarrheal syndromes. All isolates were sensitive to ciprofloxacin (100%), erythromycin (100%), gentamicin (100%), chloramphenicol (100%), and amikacin (100%) whereas 100% resistance was observed for penicillin with minimal inhibitory concentration range of 32-256 μg/mL.
22085741	Little is known about the intensity of oxidative damage in human milk resulting from maternal oxidative stress. The aim of our study was to explore the changes in Total Antioxidant Status (TAS) and concentrations of antioxidative vitamins and isoprostanes (markers of oxidative stress) in human colostrum and mature milk. The study included 49 postpartum women with normal, spontaneous full term delivery. The exclusion criteria included active and passive smoking, acute and chronic disorders, and pharmacotherapy other than vitamin supplementation. Colostrum samples were collected on the 3rd day after delivery and breast milk samples between the 30th and the 32nd day after delivery. TAS of colostrum/breast milk was determined by Rice-Evans and Miller method. The amount of vitamins A and E was measured by HPLC. Isoprostane concentrations in colostrum/mature milk and urine were determined immunoenzymatically. No significant differences were observed in maternal dietary intakes of vitamins A and E determined prior to the colostrum and mature milk sampling. The TAS of mature milk was significantly higher compared to colostrum (P=0.002), while vitamin A and E concentrations were significantly lower (P=0.003 and P=0.001). Although the isoprostane concentration of mature milk was significantly higher than the colostrum concentration, this difference was not significant (P=0.129). Human milk is a source of antioxidative vitamins and their concentrations decrease throughout the lactation, while their total antioxidative properties increase. The phase of lactation does not affect the degree of human milk's lipid oxidative damage.
22086333	The Arabidopsis AtMYB80 transcription factor (formerly AtMYB103) regulate genes essential for tapetal and pollen development. One of these genes, coding for an aspartic protease (UNDEAD), may control the timing of tapetal programmed cell death (PCD). In crop plants such as rice and wheat, abiotic stresses lead to abnormal tapetal development resulting in delayed PCD. Manipulation of AtMYB80 function has been used to develop a reversible male sterility system applicable to hybrid crop production. MYB80 homologs were cloned from wheat, rice, canola and cotton. The promoters of the homologs drove temporal and spatial expression patterns of the GUS reporter gene in the tapetum and microspores of Arabidopsis anthers identical to the AtMYB80 promoter. A short region is conserved in all five MYB80 promoters. The MYB80 homolog genes, driven by the AtMYB80 or their respective promoters, rescued the atmyb80 mutant, completely restoring male fertility. The canola MYB80 was fused to the EAR (ERF-associated amphiphilic repression) repressor and canola plants transgenic for the construct exhibited premature tapetal degradation and subsequent pollen abortion. The five MYB80 homologs all shared a 44 amino acid sequence immediately adjacent to the R2R3 domain which appears to be necessary for MYB80 function.
22089543	A preliminary screening was conducted on BC3F1 and BC4F1 backcross families developed from crossing Oryza sativa (MR219) and O. rufipogon (IRGC105491). Despite earlier results showing that O. rufipogon alleles (wild introgression) contributed to both number of panicles (qPPL-2) and tillers (qTPL-2) at loci RM250, RM208, and RM48 in line A20 of the BC2F2 population, we observed that wild introgression was lost at loci RM250 and RM208 but retained at locus RM48 in BC3F1 and BC4F1. Progeny tests conducted utilizing genotype and phenotype data on both BC4F1 and a reference population, BC2F7 (A20 line), did not show significant differences between groups having the MR219 allele and wild introgression at locus RM48. This suggests that there is no additive and transgressive effect of wild introgression in the BC3F1 and BC4F1 generated. The presence of wild introgression was largely due to gene contamination by cross-pollination during field breeding practices.
22089624	The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential risk of pretilachlor, thiobencarb, and propanil pollutants in the water system of the rice fields of the Muda area. The study included two areas that used different irrigation systems namely non-recycled (N-RCL) and recycled (RCL) water. Regular water sampling was carried out at the drainage canals during the weeding period from September to October 2006 in the main season of 2006/2007 and April-May 2007 in off season of 2007. The herbicides were extracted by the solid-phase extraction method and identified using a GC-ECD. Results showed that the procedure for identification of the three herbicides was acceptable based on the recovery test values, which ranged from 84.1% to 96.9%. A wide distribution pattern where more than 79% of the water samples contained the herbicide pollutants was observed at both the areas where N-RCL and RCL water was supplied for the two seasons. During September to October 2006, high weedicide residue concentration was observed at the N-RCL area and it ranged from 0.05 to 1.00 μg/L for pretilachlor and propanil and 10-25 μg/L for thiobencarb. In the case of the area with RCL water, the weedicide residue ranged from 1 to 5 μg/L for pretilachlor and propanil and 10-25 μg/L for thiobencarb. The highest residue level reached was 25-50, 50-100, and 100-200 μg/L for pretilachlor, propanil, and thiobencarb, respectively. During April to May 2007, high residue concentration frequently occurred at the area supplied with N-RCL irrigation water and it ranged from 0.05 to 1.00, 10 to 25, and 25 to 50 μg/L for pretilachlor, propanil, and thiobencarb, respectively. The highest residue level reached was 25-50 μg/L for pretilachlor and 100-200 μg/L for propanil and thiobencarb. There was an accelerated increase in the concentration of the herbicide residues, with the maximum levels reached at the early period of weedicide application, followed by a sharp decrease after the rice fields were completely covered with the rice crop. During the main season of 2006/2007, the concentration of propanil residue gradually rose, although that of the other herbicides declined.
22089972	Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation has been routinely used in rice for more than a decade. However, the transformation efficiency of the indica rice variety is still unsatisfactory and much lower than that of japonica cultivars. Further improvement on the transformation efficiency lies in the genetic manipulation of the plant itself, which requires a better understanding of the underlying process accounting for the susceptibility of plant cells to Agrobacterium infection as well as the identification of plant genes involved in the transformation process. In this study, transient and stable transformation assays using different japonica and indica cultivars showed that the lower transformation efficiency in indica rice was mainly due to the low efficiency in T-DNA integration into the plant genome. Analyses of the global gene expression patterns across the transformation process in different varieties revealed major differences in the expression of genes responding to Agrobacterium within the first 6 h after infection and more differentially expressed genes were observed in the indica cultivar Zhenshan 97 (ZS), with a number of genes repressed early during infection. Microarray analysis revealed an important effect of plant defense response on Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. It has been shown that some genes which may be necessary for the transformation process were down-regulated in the indica cultivar ZS. This dataset provided a versatile resource for plant genomic research to understand the regulatory network of transformation process, and showed great promise for improving indica rice transformation using genetic manipulation of the rice genome.
22091549	Abstract A novel method of pharmacophore identification and activity prediction in structure-activity (structure-property) relationships is worked out as an essential extension and improvement of previous publications. In this method each conformation of the molecular systems in the training set of the SAR problem is presented by both electronic structure and geometry parameters arranged in a matrix form. Multiple comparisons of these matrices for the active and inactive compounds allows one to separate a smaller number of matrix elements that are common for all the active compounds and are not present in the same arrangement in the inactive ones. This submatrix of activity represents the pharmacophore (Pha). By introducing the Anti-Pharmacophore Shielding (APS) defined as molecular groups and competing charges outside the Pha that hinder the proper docking of the Pha with the bioreceptor, the procedure of Pha identification is essentially reduced to the treatment of a smaller number of simplest in structure most active and inactive compounds. A simple empirical scheme is suggested to estimate the APS numerically, while the contributions of different conformations of the same compound are taken into account by means of Boltzmann distribution. This enables us to make approximate quantitative predictions of activities. In application to rice blast activity we reached an approximately 100% (within experimental error) prediction probability of the activity qualitatively (yes, no), and with r (2) = 70% quantitatively.
22092441	Mortality rates, determined by dissection, of predominantly M form female Anopheles gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae) were estimated. Mosquitoes were collected in tent traps and light traps in an irrigation project village in Ghana in June and July 2010, when much of the area was flooded. Both M and S form larvae were collected from rice fields (74 of 80 specimens were M form). Adults were collected in equal proportions from the two traps (90 of 107 specimens from the light trap and 106 of 116 specimens from the tent trap were M form). During the study, collection numbers rose from 105 to 972 per night. A total of 1787 of the 15 431 An. gambiae collected were dissected. Of these, 953 (53%) were found to have taken their first bloodmeal, either as virgins or following mating. The age profiles of mosquitoes collected alive and dead, respectively, were similar. Eighteen of 2933 (0.61 ± 0.49%) specimens were found to be positive for sporozoites in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Lagged cross correlations among the different age groups implied that the mosquitoes fed on days 2 and 4 following emergence prior to oviposition and every 2.65 ± 0.17 days thereafter. The best model to describe the observed population patterns implied a daily mortality of 84%. The results are discussed in relation to possible mosquito control measures for the village.
22092531	DNA damage checkpoints delay mitotic cell-cycle progression in response to DNA stress, stalling the cell cycle to allow time for repair. CDKB is a plant-specific cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) that is required for the G₂/M transition of the cell cycle. In Arabidopsis, DNA damage leads the degradation of CDKB2, and the subsequent G₂ arrest gives cells time to repair damaged DNA. G₂ arrest also triggers transition from the mitotic cycle to endoreduplication, leading to the presence of polyploid cells in many tissues. In contrast, in rice (Oryza sativa), polyploid cells are found only in the endosperm. It was unclear whether endoreduplication contributes to alleviating DNA damage in rice (Oryza sativa). Here, we show that DNA damage neither down-regulates Orysa;CDKB2;1 nor induces endoreduplication in rice. Furthermore, we found increased levels of Orysa;CDKB2;1 protein upon DNA damage. These results suggest that CDKB2 functions differently in Arabidopsis and rice in response to DNA damage. Arabidopsis may adopt endoreduplication as a survival strategy under genotoxic stress conditions, but rice may enhance DNA repair capacity upon genotoxic stress. In addition, polyploid cells due to endomitosis were present in CDKB2;1 knockdown rice, suggesting an important role for Orysa;CDKB2;1 during mitosis.
22092599	The microbial decomposition of plant residue is a central part of the carbon cycle in soil ecosystems. Here, we explored the microeukaryotic community responsible for the uptake of plant residue carbon in a rice field soil through DNA-based stable-isotope probing (SIP) using dried rice callus labelled with (13) C as a model substrate. Molecular fingerprinting with PCR-DGGE showed that the total eukaryotic community in soil under drained (upland) conditions distinctly changed within 3 days after the callus was applied and stable thereafter. The predominant group of eukaryotes that incorporated callus carbon were fungi affiliated with the Mucoromycotina (Mortierella), Ascomycota (Galactomyces, Eleutherascus, Gibberella and Fusarium) and Zoopagomycotina (Syncephalis). 'Fungus-like' protists such as Pythium (stramenopiles) and Polymyxa (Cercozoa) were also involved in carbon flow from the callus. Some of these fungi and 'fungus-like' protists took up soil organic matter with time, which suggested a priming effect of the callus on the eukaryotic community. Our results demonstrated the usefulness of SIP not only to trace the carbon flow from fresh organic matter but also to study the effect of fresh organic matter on the utilization of soil organic matter by the microbial community.
22093809	The advent of genomics-based technologies has revolutionized many fields of biological enquiry. However, chromosome walking or flanking sequence cloning is still a necessary and important procedure to determining gene structure. Such methods are used to identify T-DNA insertion sites and so are especially relevant for organisms where large T-DNA insertion libraries have been created, such as rice and Arabidopsis. The currently available methods for flanking sequence cloning, including the popular TAIL-PCR technique, are relatively laborious and slow. Here, we report a simple and effective fusion primer and nested integrated PCR method (FPNI-PCR) for the identification and cloning of unknown genomic regions flanked known sequences. In brief, a set of universal primers was designed that consisted of various 15-16 base arbitrary degenerate oligonucleotides. These arbitrary degenerate primers were fused to the 3' end of an adaptor oligonucleotide which provided a known sequence without degenerate nucleotides, thereby forming the fusion primers (FPs). These fusion primers are employed in the first step of an integrated nested PCR strategy which defines the overall FPNI-PCR protocol. In order to demonstrate the efficacy of this novel strategy, we have successfully used it to isolate multiple genomic sequences namely, 21 orthologs of genes in various species of Rosaceace, 4 MYB genes of Rosa rugosa, 3 promoters of transcription factors of Petunia hybrida, and 4 flanking sequences of T-DNA insertion sites in transgenic tobacco lines and 6 specific genes from sequenced genome of rice and Arabidopsis. The successful amplification of target products through FPNI-PCR verified that this novel strategy is an effective, low cost and simple procedure. Furthermore, FPNI-PCR represents a more sensitive, rapid and accurate technique than the established TAIL-PCR and hiTAIL-PCR procedures.
22093977	Effects of Ca(OH)(2), NH(4)OH, and NaOH as neutralizing agents for efficient recovery of lactic acid was investigated. Lactic acid was produced from broken rice in a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) process with Lactobacillus delbrueckii. Consumption of glucose (from broken rice) by the cells and the cell growth were the best with Ca(OH)(2) among the three neutralizing agents used. Maximum productivities of lactic acid reached with Ca(OH)(2), NH(4)OH, and NaOH were 3.59 g l(-1) h(-1), 1.51 g 1(-1) h(-1), and 1.40 g l(-1) h(-1), respectively. Ca(OH)(2) reduced the lactate molarity of the fermentation broth, and thus resulted in the highest lactic acid productivity. Furthermore, it was apparently clear that divalent cation (Ca(2+)) was more effective in neutralizing the cultures compared to monovalent (Na(+) and NH(3)(+)) cations.
22094052	The accumulation of As in rice due to groundwater irrigation in paddy fields represents a serious health hazard in South and Southeast Asia. In Taiwan, the fate of As in long-term irrigated paddy fields is poorly understood. Groundwater, surface soil, and rice samples were collected from a paddy field that was irrigated with As-containing groundwater in southwestern Taiwan. The purpose of this study is to elucidate the source and sink of As in the paddy field by comparing the As fractions in the soils that were obtained by a sequential extraction procedure (SEP) with the As uptake of rice. The risks associated with eating rice from the field can thus be better understood. The concentration of As in groundwater varied with time throughout the growing seasons of rice, but always exceeded the permitted maximum (10 μg L(-1)) for drinking water by the WHO. The As concentration increased with the concentration of Fe in the groundwater, supporting the claim that a large amount of As was concentrated in the Fe flocs collected from the internal wall of the groundwater pump. The results of the SEP revealed that As bound with amorphous and crystalline hydrous oxides exhibited high availability in the soils. The root of rice accumulated the largest amount of As, followed by the straw, husk, and grain. Although the As concentration in the rice grain was less than 1.0 mg kg(-1), the estimated intake level was close to the maximum tolerable daily intake of As, as specified by the WHO.
22094976	Corynebacterium glutamicum, the industrial microbe traditionally used for the production of amino acids, proved its value for the fermentative production of diverse products through genetic/metabolic engineering. A successful demonstration of the heterologous expression of arabinose and xylose utilization genes made them interesting biocatalysts for pentose fermentation, which are the main components in lignocellulosic hydrolysates. Its ability to withstand substantial amount of general growth inhibitors like furfurals, hydroxyl methyl furfurals and organic acids generated from the acid/alkali hydrolysis of lignocellulosics in growth arrested conditions and its ability to produce amino acids like glutamate and lysine in acid hydrolysates of rice straw and wheat bran, indicate the future prospective of this bacterium as a potent biocatalyst in fermentation biotechnology. However, the efforts so far on these lines have not yet been reviewed, and hence an attempt is made to look into the efficacy and prospects of C. glutamicum to utilize the normally non-fermentable pentose sugars from lignocellulosic biomass for the production of commodity chemicals.
22095606	MicroRNAs are small 21-nucleotide RNA molecules with regulatory roles in development and in response to stress. Expression of some plant miRNAs has been specifically associated with responses to abiotic stresses caused by cold, light, iron, and copper ions. In acid soils, aluminum solubility increases, thereby causing severe damage to plants. Although physiological aspects of aluminum toxicity in plants have been well characterized, the molecular mediators are not fully elucidated. There have been no reports about miRNA responses to aluminum stress. Modulation of miRNA expression may constitute a key element to explain the mechanisms implicated in aluminum toxicity and tolerance. We examined the expression of at least one miRNA member from each miRNA family in rice roots of Oryza sativa spp indica cv. Embrapa Taim and Oryza sativa spp japonica cv. Nipponbare under high concentrations of aluminum. Forty-six miRNA families were effectively detected by quantitative PCR. Among these, 13 were down-regulated and six were up-regulated in roots of the Nipponbare cultivar after 8 h of aluminum treatment. In roots of the Embrapa Taim cultivar, five miRNAs were down-regulated and three were up-regulated. Analyses of their putative targets suggest that these rice miRNAs are involved in the regulation of various metabolic pathways in response to high concentrations of aluminum.
22096216	Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are predicted to play important roles on genome evolution. We developed a BLASTN-based approach for de novo identification of MITEs and systematically analyzed MITEs in rice genome. The genome of rice cultivar Nipponbare (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica) harbors 178,533 MITE-related sequences classified into 338 families. Pairwise nucleotide diversity and phylogenetic tree analysis indicated that individual MITE families were resulted from one or multiple rounds of amplification bursts. The timing of amplification burst varied considerably between different MITE families or subfamilies. MITEs are associated with 23,623 (58.2%) genes in rice genome. At least 7,887 MITEs are transcribed and more than 3,463 were transcribed with rice genes. The MITE sequences transcribed with rice coding genes form 1,130 pairs of potential natural sense/antisense transcripts. MITEs generate 23.5% (183,837 of 781,885) of all small RNAs identified from rice. Some MITE families generated small RNAs mainly from the terminals, while other families generated small RNAs predominantly from the central region. More than half (51.8%) of the MITE-derived small RNAs were generated exclusively by MITEs located away from genes. Genome-wide analysis showed that genes associated with MITEs have significantly lower expression than genes away from MITEs. Approximately 14.8% of loci with full-length MITEs have presence/absence polymorphism between rice cultivars 93-11 (O. sativa ssp. indica) and Nipponbare. Considering that different sets of genes may be regulated by MITE-derived small RNAs in different genotypes, MITEs provide considerable diversity for O. sativa.
22096729	Rice body formation has been traditionally observed in the joint and tendon sheaths of patients with tuberculosis. Few case reports exist that describe rice body formation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. We describe a case report of bilateral recurrent wrist flexor tenosynovitis with rice body formation in a patient with sero-negative rheumatoid arthritis. This case report describes a 72 year old lady presenting with severe bilateral, flexor tenosynovitis of the wrists. Ultrasonography revealed significant echogenic fluid on the palmer aspect of wrist joint surrounding flexor tendons with intact neurovascular bundles and no bony erosion. Laboratory tests demonstrated elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (50 mm/h) and negative rheumatoid factor. A sequential subtotal flexor tenosynovectomy was carried out with decompression of the carpal tunnel. During the operation, multiple rice bodies among the flexor tendons with adherent synovitis were found. Histology revealed disrupted synovial tissue containing several areas of fibrinoid necrosis, bounded by a layer of vaguely pallisaded histiocytes but no epitheloid granulomata or germinal centre. A revision surgery with debulking of the fibro-osseous canal was undertaken following recurrence. The patient presently has complete resolution of symptoms at one year follow-up. The combined clinical, laboratory, ultrasound and histology findings of the patient indicated that the cause of the rice body formation was due to a sero-negative arthritis rather than tuberculosis. Rice body formation can be caused by sero-negative arthritis. Bilateral wrist flexor tensosynovitis can recur within five months of a previous synovectomy in a patient with sero-negative arthritis.
22097363	Based on the observation data from the meteorological stations and agricultural experimental stations in Jiangxi Province, this paper studied the change trend of the growth period of double cropping rice in the province, and, by using the indices growing degree-days (GDD), cool degree-days (CDD), and heat degree-days (HDD), the change trends of the heat resources at each growth stage of the double cropping rice in 1981-2007 were analyzed. Under the background of climate warming, the mean air temperature, mean minimum air temperature, mean maximum air temperature during the growth period of the double cropping rice all had an increasing trend, leading to the shortening of double cropping rice growth season, with the most obvious decrease of vegetative growth phase and the prolonged reproductive growth phase. In the vegetative growth phase, the GDD and HDD increased, while the CDD decreased. In 1981-2007, the effective heat resources of double cropping rice in Jiangxi Province increased, low temperature risk reduced, while high temperature risk increased. The increment of the effective heat resources for double cropping rice was higher in northeast Jiangxi than in southwest Jiangxi, low temperature risk was higher in south Jiangxi than that in north Jiangxi, and high temperature risk was the highest in middle Jiangxi.
22097364	By the method of static chamber, a field experiment was conducted to study the effects of applying controlled-release fertilizer (CRF) and its combination with urea on the N2O emission during rice growth period. Four treatments, i.e., no fertilization (CK), urea (U), urea and CRF with a ratio of 3:7 (U+C), and CRF (C) were installed, and the N application rate in treatments U, U+C, and C was the same. Compared with treatment U, treatments U+C and C decreased the N2O emission during rice growth season by 40.4% and 59.6%, and decreased the emission at midseason aeration stage by 65.1% and 83.9%, respectively (P < 0.05). Compared with that in treatment C, the N2O emission in treatment U+C had a slight decrease, and decreased by 53.9% at midseason aeration stage. Applying CRF increased rice yield, and the increment in treatments C and U+C was 7.8% and 9.8%, respectively, as compared to treatment U. Applying CRF delayed the peak time of soil inorganic nitrogen concentration, resulting in the reduction of N2O emission at midseason aeration stage. During rice growth season, no significant correlation was observed between N2O flux and soil Eh or soil temperature.
22097377	Geostatistical methods were adopted to characterize the spatial pattern and its variation of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis larvae (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) and Ummeliata insecticeps (Araneida: Linyphiidae) in the habitats of paddy rice neighboring with white melon, tomato, or corn. In the rice growth period, C. medinalis larvae and U. insecticeps presented aggregative distribution, with the spatial range varied from 1.91 to 182.57 m and from 3.70 to 9.70 m, respectively. Isoline map showed that the density of U. insecticeps was spatially and temporally identical with that of C. medinalis larvae, suggesting that U. insecticeps had strong pursuing and control effects on C. medinalis larvae. Among the test neighboring patterns, paddy rice neighboring with white melon had the best performance of U. insecticeps.
22098145	• Inorganic arsenic (iAs) is a ubiquitous human carcinogen, and rice (Oryza sativa) is the main contributor to iAs in the diet. Methylated pentavalent As species are less toxic and are routinely found in plants; however, it is currently unknown whether plants are able to methylate As. • Rice, tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and red clover (Trifolium pratense) were exposed to iAs, monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)), or dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)), under axenic conditions. Rice seedlings were also grown in two soils under nonsterile flooded conditions, and rice plants exposed to arsenite or DMA(V) were grown to maturity in nonsterile hydroponic culture. Arsenic speciation in samples was determined by HPLC-ICP-MS. • Methylated arsenicals were not found in the three plant species exposed to iAs under axenic conditions. Axenically grown rice was able to take up MMA(V) or DMA(V), and reduce MMA(V) to MMA(III) but not convert it to DMA(V). Methylated As was detected in the shoots of soil-grown rice, and in rice grain from nonsterile hydroponic culture. GeoChip analysis of microbial genes in a Bangladeshi paddy soil showed the presence of the microbial As methyltransferase gene arsM. • Our results suggest that plants are unable to methylate iAs, and instead take up methylated As produced by microorganisms.
22099517	During the investigation of the metabolism of ¹⁴C-acetate or ¹⁴C-succinate in rice seedlings, an unknown organic acid (X) with a high specific radioactivity was detected in 10,000 × g 30 min precipitate-fraction of rice roots. The X was hardly extracted by 0.1 N-H₂SO₄ boiling, but was extracted by 0.5 N-KOH boiling. The X was co-chromatographed with several known organic acids, and the radioactive peak of the X matched β-hydroxybutyric acid (β-hydroxybutyrate). The radioactive X and β-hydroxybutyrate were then heated with concentrated H₂SO₄. The radioactivity and the titration value were completely converted to crotonic acid. Thus, it was concluded that the X was β-hydroxybutyrate, and the original form of this acid was presumed to be poly-β-hydroxybutyrate (PHB). Then rice root incubated with 2-¹⁴C-acetate was extracted with hot-ethanol, ethanol/ether, and hot-chloroform. Approximately 10% of the radioactivity absorbed was detected in the chloroform fraction. The chloroform fraction was co-precipitated with authentic PHB by the addition of acetone/ether, and almost all the radioactivity was co-precipitated with the PHB. The radioactive co-precipitate was then heated with 0.5 N-NaOH, and chromatographed. The radioactivity of β-hydroxybutyrate plus crotonic acid almost matched that of the co-precipitate before alkaline-hydrolysis. Hence the radioactive co-precipitate was confirmed to be PHB. In wheat and radish seedlings, 2-¹⁴C-acetate was also assimilated into PHB. It is concluded that externally provided acetate was rapidly converted to PHB in higher plants.
22101043	Intermittent drainage can substantially reduce methane emission from rice fields, but the microbial mechanisms remain poorly understood. In the present study, we determined the rates of methane production and emission, the dynamics of ferric iron and sulfate, and the abundance of methanogen mcrA genes (encoding the alpha subunit of methyl coenzyme M reductase) and their transcripts in response to alternate dry/wet cycles in paddy field soil. We found that intermittent drainage did not affect the growth of rice plants but significantly reduced the rates of both methane production and emission. The dry/wet cycles also resulted in shifts of soil redox conditions, increasing the concentrations of ferric iron and sulfate in the soil. Quantitative PCR analysis revealed that both mcrA gene copies and mcrA transcripts significantly decreased after dry/wet alternation compared to continuous flooding. Correlation and regression analyses showed that the abundance of mcrA genes and transcripts positively correlated with methane production potential and soil water content and negatively correlated with the concentrations of ferric iron and sulfate in the soil. However, the transcription of mcrA genes was reduced to a greater extent than the abundance of mcrA genes, resulting in very low mcrA transcript/gene ratios after intermittent drainage. Furthermore, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis revealed that the composition of methanogenic community remained stable under dry/wet cycles, whereas that of metabolically active methanogens strongly changed. Collectively, our study demonstrated a stronger effect of intermittent drainage on the abundance of mcrA transcripts than of mcrA genes in rice field soil.
22101345	We have recently isolated a rice circadian clock-related mutant carrying a null mutation in Os-GIGANTEA(GI) gene, the solo ortholog of Arabidopsis GI. Time-course global transcriptome analyses of leaves from wild-type and osgi mutant grown in the field have revealed that Os-GI affects gene expression of more than half of genes on rice 44k microarray. To better understand the biological significance of circadian clock function in growth and development of rice, we here investigated the gene expression involved in phytohormone biosynthesis. Here we found that mRNA levels of a few major genes encoding GA2-oxidase which can inactivate bioactive gibberellins (GAs) were remarkably increased in osgi-1 plants. This suggests that Os-GI functions to maintain bioactive GA level through the regulation of the GA-deactivating enzyme genes in rice. Consistently, osgi-1 plants showed semi-dwarf phenotype with reduced internode and leaf sheath elongation.
22101802	Aldo-keto reductase (AKR) is an enzyme superfamily whose members are involved in the metabolism of aldehydes/ketones. The AKR4 subfamily C (AKR4C) is a group of aldo-keto reductases that are found in plants. Some AKR4C(s) in dicot plants are capable of metabolizing reactive aldehydes whereas, such activities have not been reported for AKR4C(s) from monocot species. In this study, we have screened Indica rice genome for genes with significant homology to dicot AKR4C(s) and identified a cluster of putative AKR4C(s) located on the Indica rice chromosome I. The genes including OsI_04426, OsI_04428 and OsI_04429 were successfully cloned and sequenced by qRT-PCR from leaves of Thai Jasmine rice (KDML105). OsI_04428, later named AKR4C14, was chosen for further studies because it shares highest homology to the dicot AKR4C(s). The bacterially expressed recombinant protein of AKR4C14 was successfully produced as a MBP fusion protein and his-tagged protein. The recombinant AKR4C14 were capable of metabolizing sugars and reactive aldehydes i.e. methylglyoxal, a toxic by-product of the glycolysis pathway, glutaraldehyde, and trans-2-hexenal, a natural reactive 2-alkenal. AKR4C14 was highly expressed in green tissues, i.e. leaf sheets and stems, whereas flowers and roots had a significantly lower level of expression. These findings indicated that monocot AKR4C(s) can metabolize reactive aldehydes like the dicot AKR4C(s) and possibly play a role in detoxification mechanism of reactive aldehydes.
22101978	A study was conducted to evaluate the effect of various concentrations of metabolizable energy (ME) with graded incremental levels of crude protein (CP) and essential amino acids (lysine and methionine) on production performance, egg quality and humoral immune response of Dahlem Red laying hens. Four experimental diets based on maize-soybean meal-deoiled rice bran were prepared. Diet 1 was fed as a control diet containing 2,600 kcal ME/kg, 15% CP, 0.75% Lys and 0.36% Met, and in the other three diets (D2, D3 and D4), concentrations of the above nutrients were increased by 2.5%, 5.0% and 7.5%, respectively. The levels of Ca (3.5%) and available P (0.32) were constant in all the diets. Each diet was offered ad libitum from 28 to 40 weeks of age to eight replicates containing six birds in each replicate. The egg production, egg weight and egg mass (in grams of egg per hen per day) were not affected by increasing the nutrient density up to 7.5% (2,795 kcal ME/kg diet) compared to the control group (2,600 ME/kg diet). However, feed consumption and feed efficiency (in grams of egg per gram of feed) were influenced by the variation in the nutrient density of diets. As the nutrient density increased by 5% (2,730 ME/kg diet), birds consumed significantly (P < 0.001) less feed. The birds in the 7.5% higher density group produced significantly (P < 0.05) higher egg mass per unit feed consumption compared to the control diet. Increasing nutrient density up to 7.5% had no effect on relative weight of albumen, yolk or shell. The Haugh unit, yolk colour and shell thickness were also not affected due to variation in the nutrient density. The humoral immune response measured at 34 and 40 weeks was progressively improved by increasing the nutrient density up to 5%. Increasing the nutrient density beyond 5% in the diet had no further influence on the humoral immune response. Based on the results of the present study, it can be concluded that Dahlem Red laying hens required 2,795 kcal/kg ME, 16% CP, 0.8% lysine and 0.4% methionine for eliciting optimum performance and immune response during 28 to 40 weeks of age.
22102032	Fragrant rice (Oryza sativa L.) betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (OsBADH2) is a key enzyme in the synthesis of fragrance aroma compounds. The extremely low activity of OsBADH2 in catalyzing the oxidation of acetaldehyde is believed to be crucial for the accumulation of the volatile compound 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP) in many scented plants, including fragrant rice. Recombinant fragrant rice OsBADH2 was expressed in Escherichia coli as an N-terminal hexahistidine fusion protein, purified using Ni Sepharose affinity chromatography and crystallized using the microbatch method. Initial crystals were obtained within 24 h using 0.1 M Tris pH 8.5 with 30%(w/v) PEG 4000 and 0.2 M magnesium chloride as the precipitating agent at 291 K. Crystal quality was improved when the enzyme was cocrystallized with NAD(+). Improved crystals were grown in 0.1 M HEPES pH 7.4, 24%(w/v) PEG 4000 and 0.2 M ammonium chloride and diffracted to beyond 2.95 Å resolution after being cooled in a stream of N(2) immediately prior to X-ray diffraction experiments. The crystals belonged to space group C222(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 66.03, b = 183.94, c = 172.28 Å. An initial molecular-replacement solution has been obtained and refinement is in progress.
22102211	Microorganisms mediate biochemical transformations of phosphorus (P) in soil. This is of particular importance in highly weathered soils, which are usually P deficient. This study aimed to extend understanding of the separate role of bacteria and fungi in P transformations in aggregates of a highly weathered soil, by adding P-stripped rice straw and microorganism inhibitors to aggregates. The amount of microbial biomass phosphorus (MB-P) in the treatment with rice straw alone increased by over two-fold during 16 days. At the end of 28 d, the amount of inorganic-P in Fe-, Al-, and Ca-bound fractions decreased, whilst the amount of organic-P increased substantially (P < 0.01). The effect of bacterial inhibitors (tetracycline and streptomycin sulphate) on P immobilisation was very small in the early phase (0-4 d), but became pronounced after 8 days, whilst the fungal inhibitor (actidione) initially caused a decrease in P immobilisation by about 60%, but had no effect after that. Fungi and bacteria immobilise P in soil aggregates, with fungi being responsible initially. However, bacteria become dominant subsequently and immobilise P from the inorganic fractions.
22102215	The AP2/EREBP genes play various roles in developmental processes and in stress-related responses in plants. Genome-wide microarrays based on the gene expression profiles of the AP2/EREBP family were analyzed under conditions of normal growth and drought stress. The preferential expression of fifteen genes was observed in specific tissues, suggesting that these genes may play important roles in vegetative and reproductive stages of growth. A large number of redundant genes were differentially expressed following phytohormone treatments (NAA, GA3, KT, SA, JA, and ABA). To investigate the gene expression responses in the root, leaf, and panicle of three rice genotypes, two drought stress conditions were applied using the fraction of transpirable soil water (FTSW) under severe (0.2 FTSW), mild (0.5 FTSW), and control (1.0 FTSW) conditions. Following treatment, transcriptomic analysis using a 44-K oligoarray from Agilent was performed on all the tissue samples. We identified common and specific genes in all tissues from two near-isogenic lines, IR77298-14-1-2-B-10 (drought tolerant) and IR77298-14-1-2-B-13 (drought susceptible), under drought stress conditions. The majority of the genes that were activated in the IR77298-14-1-2-B-10 line were members of the AP2/EREBP gene family. Non-redundant genes (sixteen) were found in the drought-tolerant line, and four genes were selected as candidate novel reference genes because of their higher expression levels in IR77298-14-1-2-B-10. Most of the genes in the AP2, B3, and B5 subgroups were involved in the panicle under severe stress conditions, but genes from the B1 and B2 subgroups were down-regulated in the root. Of the four subfamilies, RAV exhibited the highest number of up-regulated genes (80%) in the panicle under severe stress conditions in the drought-tolerant line compared to Minghui 63 under normal conditions, and the gene structures of the RAV subfamily may be involved in the response to drought stress in the flowering stage. These results provide a useful reference for the cloning of candidate genes from the specific subgroup for further functional analysis.
22102281	There is increasing evidence that in several fungi, rhamnose-containing glycans are involved in processes that affect host-pathogen interactions, including adhesion, recognition, virulence, and biofilm formation. Nevertheless, little is known about the pathways for the synthesis of these glycans. We show that rhamnose is present in glycans isolated from the rice pathogen Magnaporthe grisea and from the plant pathogen Botryotinia fuckeliana. We also provide evidence that these fungi produce UDP-rhamnose. This is in contrast to bacteria where dTDP-rhamnose is the activated form of this sugar. In bacteria, formation of dTDP-rhamnose requires three enzymes. Here, we demonstrate that in fungi only two genes are required for UDP-Rha synthesis. The first gene encodes a UDP-glucose-4,6-dehydratase that converts UDP-glucose to UDP-4-keto-6-deoxyglucose. The product was shown by time-resolved (1)H NMR spectroscopy to exist in solution predominantly as a hydrated form along with minor amounts of a keto form. The second gene encodes a bifunctional UDP-4-keto-6-deoxyglucose-3,5-epimerase/-4-reductase that converts UDP-4-keto-6-deoxyglucose to UDP-rhamnose. Sugar composition analysis and gene expression studies at different stages of growth indicate that the synthesis of rhamnose-containing glycans is under tissue-specific regulation. Together, our results provide new insight into the formation of rhamnose-containing glycans during the fungal life cycle. The role of these glycans in the interactions between fungal pathogens and their hosts is discussed. Knowledge of the metabolic pathways involved in the formation of rhamnose-containing glycans may facilitate the development of drugs to combat fungal diseases in humans, as to the best of our knowledge mammals do not make these types of glycans.
22102775	Mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are universal signal transduction modules that play crucial role in plant growth and development as well as biotic and abiotic stress responses. 20 and 17 MAPKs have been characterized in Arabidopsis and rice respectively, which are used for identification of the putative MAPKs in other higher plants. However, no MAPK gene sequences have yet been characterized for asexually reproducing plants. We describe the analysis of MAPK EST sequences from Curcuma longa (an asexually reproducible plant of great medicinal and economic significance). The four Curcuma MAPKs contains all 11 MAPK conserved domains and phosphorylation-activation motif, TEY. Phylogenetic analysis grouped them in the subgroup A and C as identified earlier for Arabidopsis. The Curcuma MAPKs identified showed high sequence homology to rice OsMPK3, OsMPK4 and OsMPK5 suggesting the presence of similar key element in signaling biotic and abiotic stress responses. Although further in vivo and in vitro analysis are required to establish the physiological role of Curcuma MAPKs, this study provides the base for future research on diverse signaling pathways mediated by MAPKs in Curcuma longa as well as other asexually reproducing plants.
22103028
22103170	Rice husk silica (RHS) which was obtained with thermal treatment of rice husk has the size of approximately 10 micrometer with 4-5 nm pore. RHS can be mold to a disk type membrane. The membrane may have submicron pore originated from the space among the particles, and the nano pores of the rice husk silica (RHS pore). Even it is difficult to adjust the size of the pores, we can suggest that the membrane shows different permeability for the organic/inorganic solvents if the affinity between the surface of the pores and the permeating molecule is changed. In this study, we investigated the permeation of the typical solvents such as water, ethanol and toluene to the RHS membranes sintered at 1100 degrees C, 1150 degrees C and 1200 degrees C and modified with triethoxymethyl silane (CH3)Si(C2H5O)3, diethoxydiemethyl silane (CH3)2Si(C2H5O)2 and ethoxytriemethyl silane (CH3)3Si (C2H5O). The result showed that permeability of original membranes for water (e.g., 1100 degrees C, 2.87 x 10(-3) mol/m2 s Pa) was larger than ethanol (1100 degrees C, 5.51 x 10(-4) mol/m2 s Pa) and toluene (1100 degrees C, 3.09 x 10(-4) mol/m2 s Pa) at the sintering temperatures. For the silane modified membranes, the permeability for water decreased drastically while those for ethanol and toluene increased.
22105217	It is becoming common for plant scientists to develop projects that require the genotyping of large numbers of plants. The first step in any genotyping project is to collect a tissue sample from each individual plant. The traditional approach to this task is to sample plants one-at-a-time. If one wishes to genotype hundreds or thousands of individuals, however, using this strategy results in a significant bottleneck in the genotyping pipeline. The Ice-Cap method that we describe here provides a high-throughput solution to this challenge by allowing one scientist to collect tissue from several thousand seedlings in a single day (1,2). This level of throughput is made possible by the fact that tissue is harvested from plants 96-at-a-time, rather than one-at-a-time. The Ice-Cap method provides an integrated platform for performing seedling growth, tissue harvest, and DNA extraction. The basis for Ice-Cap is the growth of seedlings in a stacked pair of 96-well plates. The wells of the upper plate contain plugs of agar growth media on which individual seedlings germinate. The roots grow down through the agar media, exit the upper plate through a hole, and pass into a lower plate containing water. To harvest tissue for DNA extraction, the water in the lower plate containing root tissue is rapidly frozen while the seedlings in the upper plate remain at room temperature. The upper plate is then peeled away from the lower plate, yielding one plate with 96 root tissue samples frozen in ice and one plate with 96 viable seedlings. The technique is named "Ice-Cap" because it uses ice to capture the root tissue. The 96-well plate containing the seedlings can then wrapped in foil and transferred to low temperature. This process suspends further growth of the seedlings, but does not affect their viability. Once genotype analysis has been completed, seedlings with the desired genotype can be transferred from the 96-well plate to soil for further propagation. We have demonstrated the utility of the Ice-Cap method using Arabidopsis thaliana, tomato, and rice seedlings. We expect that the method should also be applicable to other species of plants with seeds small enough to fit into the wells of 96-well plates.
22105517	Thirty-three endophytic diazotrophs were isolated from surface-sterilized leaves, stem, and roots of wild rice Oryza alta. The SDS-PAGE profile of total protein and insertion sequence-based polymerase chain reaction (IS-PCR) fingerprinting grouped the isolates into four clusters (I-IV). The 16S rRNA gene sequence homology of the representative strains B21, B31, B1, and B23 of clusters I, II, III, and IV were assigned to Pseudomonas oleovorans (99.2% similarity), Burkholderia fungorum (99.4% similarity), Enterobacter cloacae (98.9% similarity), and Acinetobacter johnsonii (98.4% similarity), respectively. The results showed wide genetic diversity of the putative diazotrophic strains of the wild rice, O. alta, and the strains of cluster IV are the first report of nitrogen-fixing Acinetobacter species. The cell size, phenotypic characters, total protein profile, genomic DNA fingerprinting, DNA-DNA hybridization, and antibiotic resistance differentiated strain B23(T) from its closest relatives A. johnsonii LMG999(T) and Acinetobacter haemolyticus LMG996(T). The DNA-DNA hybridization also distinguished the strain B23(T) from the closely related Acinetobacter species. Based on these data, a novel species, Acinetobacter oryzae sp. nov., and strain B23(T) (=LMG25575(T) = CGMCC1.10689(T)) as the type strain were proposed.
22106097	Nitric oxide (NO) is a key redox-active, small molecule involved in various aspects of plant growth and development. Here, we report the identification of an NO accumulation mutant, nitric oxide excess1 (noe1), in rice (Oryza sativa), the isolation of the corresponding gene, and the analysis of its role in NO-mediated leaf cell death. Map-based cloning revealed that NOE1 encoded a rice catalase, OsCATC. Furthermore, noe1 resulted in an increase of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in the leaves, which consequently promoted NO production via the activation of nitrate reductase. The removal of excess NO reduced cell death in both leaves and suspension cultures derived from noe1 plants, implicating NO as an important endogenous mediator of H(2)O(2)-induced leaf cell death. Reduction of intracellular S-nitrosothiol (SNO) levels, generated by overexpression of rice S-nitrosoglutathione reductase gene (GSNOR1), which regulates global levels of protein S-nitrosylation, alleviated leaf cell death in noe1 plants. Thus, S-nitrosylation was also involved in light-dependent leaf cell death in noe1. Utilizing the biotin-switch assay, nanoliquid chromatography, and tandem mass spectrometry, S-nitrosylated proteins were identified in both wild-type and noe1 plants. NO targets identified only in noe1 plants included glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and thioredoxin, which have been reported to be involved in S-nitrosylation-regulated cell death in animals. Collectively, our data suggest that both NO and SNOs are important mediators in the process of H(2)O(2)-induced leaf cell death in rice.
22106829	Virulence factors of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak in rice, are regulated by a diffusible signal factor (DSF)-dependent quorum-sensing (QS) system. In this study, a novel pathogenicity-related gene, Xoryp_010100018570 (named hshB), of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola was characterized. hshB encodes a hydrolase with a putative signal peptide, which is a homolog of imidazolonepropionase. Bioinformatic analysis showed that hshB is relatively conserved in the genus Xanthomonas but the homologous gene of hshB was not found in X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis showed that hshB and its upstream gene, Xoryp_010100018565 (named hshA), are co-transcribed in X. oryzae pv. oryzicola. Subsequent experimental results indicated that mutation of hshB remarkably impaired the virulence, extracellular protease activity, extracellular polysaccharide production, growth in minimal medium, and resistance to oxidative stress and bismerthiazol of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola. Mutation of clp, encoding a global regulator, resulted in similar phenotypes. Real-time PCR assays showed that hshB transcription is positively regulated by clp and DSF, and induced by poor nutrition. Our study not only found a novel gene hshB regulated by DSF-dependent QS system and clp but also showed that hshB was required for virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola.
22106866	The contents of arsenic, mercury, lead and cadmium in milled rice were determined. Among 216 genotypes, the As, Hg, Pb and Cd contents were ranged from 5.06 to 296.45, 2.46 to 65.85, 4.16 to 744.95 and 5.91 to 553.40 ng/g, respectively. Six genotypes with lower contents of toxic metal elements were selected. The averages of As and Pb contents for indica rice were higher than those of japonica rice, while the averages of Hg and Cd contents were in contrast. Compared with white brown rice, the milled rice from black and red brown rice contained lower contents of four elements. Significant negative correlation was found between As content and alkaline spread value. Significant correlations were observed between As and aspartic acid (Asp) content, Hg and Asp or leucine contents, Pb and cysteine or methionine contents. Cd content was significantly negatively correlated with protein and 14 amino acid contents.
22107880	Arsenic (As) accumulation in rice grain poses a serious health risk to populations with high rice consumption. Extrusion of arsenite [As(III)] by ScAcr3p is the major arsenic detoxification mechanism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. However, ScAcr3p homolog is absent in higher plants, including rice. In this study, ScACR3 was introduced into rice and expressed under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. In the transgenic lines, As concentrations in shoots and roots were about 30% lower than in the wild type, while the As translocation factors were similar between transgenic lines and the wild type. The roots of transgenic plants exhibited significantly higher As efflux activities than those of the wild type. Within 24 h exposure to 10 μM arsenate [As(V)], roots of ScACR3-expressing plants extruded 80% of absorbed As(V) to the external solution as As(III), while roots of the wild type extruded 50% of absorbed As(V). Additionally, by exposing the As-containing rice plants to an As-lacking solution for 24 h, about 30% of the total As derived from pre-treatment was extruded to the external solution by ScACR3-expressing plants, while about 15% of As was extruded by wild-type plants. Importantly, ScACR3 expression significantly reduced As accumulation in rice straws and grains. When grown in flooded soil irrigated with As(III)-containing water, the As concentration in husk and brown rice of the transgenic lines was reduced by 30 and 20%, respectively, compared with the wild type. This study reports a potential strategy to reduce As accumulation in the food chain by expressing heterologous genes in crops.
22108719	Rice seeds are potentially useful hosts for the production of pharmaceutical proteins. However, low yields of recombinant proteins have been observed in many cases because recombinant proteins compete with endogenous storage proteins. Therefore, we attempt to suppress endogenous seed storage proteins by RNA interference (RNAi) to develop rice seeds as a more efficient protein expression system. In this study, human growth hormone (hGH) was expressed in transgenic rice seeds using an endosperm-specific promoter from a 10 kDa rice prolamin gene. In addition, an RNAi cassette for reduction of endogenous storage protein expressions was inserted into the hGH expression construct. Using this system, the expression levels of 13 kDa prolamin and glutelin were effectively suppressed and hGH polypeptides accumulated to 470 μg/g dry weight at the maximum level in transgenic rice seeds. These results suggest that the suppression of endogenous protein gene expression by RNAi could be of great utility for increasing transgene products.
22109348	Statins alone are not always adequate therapy to achieve low-density lipoprotein (LDL) goals in many patients. Many options are available either alone or in combination with statins that makes it possible to reach recommended goals in a safe and tolerable fashion for most patients. Ezetimibe and bile acid sequestrants reduce cholesterol transport to the liver and can be used in combination. Niacin is very effective at lowering LDL, beyond its ability to raise high-density lipoprotein and shift LDL particle size to a less atherogenic type. When statins cannot be tolerated at all, red yeast rice can be used if proper formulations of the product are obtained. Nutrients can also be added to the diet, including plant stanols and sterols, soy protein, almonds, and fiber, either individually or all together as a portfolio diet. A clear understanding of how each of these strategies works is essential for effective results.
22109518	Gibberellin (GA) controls pollen development in flowering plants via the GAMYB transcription factor. Here we show that GAMYB is conserved in Selaginella moellendorffii (lycophyte) and Physcomitrella patens (moss), although the former contains the GA signalling pathway, the latter does not. In the lycophyte, GA treatment promotes the outer wall development on microspores, whereas treatment with GA biosynthesis inhibitors disturbs its development. Contrary, in the moss, GAMYB homologue knockouts also produce abnormal spores that resemble Selaginella microspores treated with GA biosynthesis inhibitors and pollen grains of rice gamyb mutant. Moreover, the knockouts fail to develop male organs, instead ectopically forming female organs. Thus, before the establishment of the GA signalling pathway, basal land plants, including mosses, contained a GAMYB-based system for spore and sexual organ development. Subsequently, during the evolution from mosses to basal vascular plants including lycophytes, GA signalling might have merged to regulate this pre-existing GAMYB-based system.
22110044	Gene expression is controlled by the complex interaction of transcription factors binding to promoters and other regulatory DNA elements. One common characteristic of the genomic regions associated with regulatory proteins is a pronounced sensitivity to DNase I digestion. We generated genome-wide high-resolution maps of DNase I hypersensitive (DH) sites from both seedling and callus tissues of rice (Oryza sativa). Approximately 25% of the DH sites from both tissues were found in putative promoters, indicating that the vast majority of the gene regulatory elements in rice are not located in promoter regions. We found 58% more DH sites in the callus than in the seedling. For DH sites detected in both the seedling and callus, 31% displayed significantly different levels of DNase I sensitivity within the two tissues. Genes that are differentially expressed in the seedling and callus were frequently associated with DH sites in both tissues. The DNA sequences contained within the DH sites were hypomethylated, consistent with what is known about active gene regulatory elements. Interestingly, tissue-specific DH sites located in the promoters showed a higher level of DNA methylation than the average DNA methylation level of all the DH sites located in the promoters. A distinct elevation of H3K27me3 was associated with intergenic DH sites. These results suggest that epigenetic modifications play a role in the dynamic changes of the numbers and DNase I sensitivity of DH sites during development.
22111585	Tapetum development and meiosis play crucial roles in anther development. Here we identified a rice gene, DEFECTIVE TAPETUM AND MEIOCYTES 1 (DTM1), which controls the early stages of that development. This gene encodes for an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane protein that is present only in cereals. Our T-DNA insertion mutations gave rise to abnormal tapetal formation. Cellular organelles, especially the ER, were underdeveloped, which led to hampered differentiation and degeneration of the tapetum. In addition, the development of pollen mother cells was arrested at the early stages of meiotic prophase I. RNA in-situ hybridization analyses showed that DTM1 transcripts were most abundant in tapetal cells at stages 6 and 7, and moderately in the pollen mother cells and meiocytes. Transcripts of UDT1, which functions in tapetum development during early meiosis, were reduced in dtm1 anthers, as were those of PAIR1, which is involved in chromosome pairing and synapsis during meiosis. However, expression of MSP1 and MEL1, which function in anther wall specification and germ cell division, respectively, was not altered in the dtm1 mutant. Moreover, transcripts of DTM1 were reduced in msp1 mutant anthers, but not in udt1 and pair1 mutants. These results, together with their mutant phenotypes, suggest that DTM1 plays important roles in the ER membrane during early tapetum development, functioning after MSP1 and before UDT1, and also in meiocyte development, after MEL1 and before PAIR1.
22112460	During seed development, endosperm cells of highly productive cereals, including rice, synthesize disulfide-rich proteins in large amounts and deposit them into storage organelles. Disulfide bond formation involves electron transfer and generates H(2)O(2) as a by-product. To ensure proper development and maturation of seeds, the endosperm cells must supply large amounts of oxidizing equivalents to dithiols in nascent proteins in a controlled manner. This review compares multiple oxidative protein folding systems in yeast, cultured human cells, and rice endosperm. We discuss possible roles of ERO1, other sulfhydryl oxidases, and the protein disulfide isomerase family in the formation of disulfide bonds in storage proteins and the development of protein bodies. Rice prolamins, encoded by a multigene family, are divided into Cys-rich and Cys-depleted subgroups. We discuss the potential importance of disulfide bond formation in the evolution of the prolamin family in japonica rice.
22112529	In this study, we predicted Single Exon Genes (SEGs) distributed in whole rice genome and their expressed proteins. Complete genome of rice was retrieved from TIGR. CDS annotation in the FEATURE (GenBank format) was used to predict SEGs sequences. Organelle gene sequences, pseudogenes, tRNA genes, rRNA genes and duplicated genes were eliminated through different bioinformatics tools. A sizeable number (8.1%) of SEGs in whole rice genome were detected. Predicted SEGs were further searched for their differential response under anoxia. Out of total detected SEGs, only 39.33% were anoxia responsive. Among the total detected anoxia-responsive SEG, only 23.48% encode the known proteins.
22112826	Cellulases and hemicellulases are key enzymes in the production of alternative fuels and chemicals from lignocellulosic biomass-an abundant renewable resource. Carbon source selection is an important factor in the production of cellulases and hemicellulases. Rice straw--a potential ethanol source--has recently gained considerable interest in Asian countries. Here, we investigated the production of cellulases by using rice straw subjected to various pretreatments as substrates in order to produce cellulases at low costs; we also identified the enzymes' characteristics. Rice straw cutter milled to <3mm was pretreated by wet disk milling, dry ball milling, or hot-compressed water treatment (HCWT). Pretreated rice straw and commercial cellulose, Solka Floc (SF), were used as carbon sources for cellulase production by the fungus Acremonium cellulolyticus. Filter paper cellulase, β-xylanase, and β-xylosidase production from ball- and disk-milled samples were higher than those from SF. Enzymatic activity was absent in cultures where HCWT rice straw was used as carbon source. Wet disk-milled rice straw cultures were more suitable for enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated rice straw than SF cultures. Thus, wet disk milling may be a suitable pretreatment for producing substrates for enzymatic hydrolysis and generating inexpensive carbon sources for cellulase production.
22112911	The white rot fungus Trametes hirsuta produced ethanol from a variety of hexoses: glucose, mannose, cellobiose and maltose, with yields of 0.49, 0.48, 0.47 and 0.47 g/g of ethanol per sugar utilized, respectively. In addition, this fungus showed relatively favorable xylose consumption and ethanol production with a yield of 0.44 g/g. T. hirsuta was capable of directly fermenting starch, wheat bran and rice straw to ethanol without acid or enzymatic hydrolysis. Maximum ethanol concentrations of 9.1, 4.3 and 3.0 g/l, corresponding to 89.2%, 78.8% and 57.4% of the theoretical yield, were obtained when the fungus was grown in a medium containing 20 g/l starch, wheat bran or rice straw, respectively. The fermentation of rice straw pretreated with ball milling led to a small improvement in the ethanol yield: 3.4 g ethanol/20 g ball-milled rice straw. As T. hirsuta is an efficient microorganism capable of hydrolyzing biomass to fermentable sugars and directly converting them to ethanol, it may represent a suitable microorganism in consolidated bioprocessing applications.
22112955	Efficient ethanol producing yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae cannot produce ethanol from raw starch directly. Thus the conventional ethanol production required expensive and complex process. In this study, we developed a direct and efficient ethanol production process from high-yielding rice harvested in Japan by using amylase expressing yeast without any pretreatment or addition of enzymes or nutrients. Ethanol productivity from high-yielding brown rice (1.1g/L/h) was about 5-fold higher than that obtained from purified raw corn starch (0.2g/L/h) when nutrients were added. Using an inoculum volume equivalent to 10% of the fermentation volume without any nutrient supplementation resulted in ethanol productivity and yield reaching 1.2g/L/h and 101%, respectively, in a 24-h period. High-yielding rice was demonstrated to be a suitable feedstock for bioethanol production. In addition, our polyploid amylase-expressing yeast was sufficiently robust to produce ethanol efficiently from real biomass. This is first report of direct ethanol production on real biomass using an amylase-expressing yeast strain without any pretreatment or commercial enzyme addition.
22113535	Statins are at the forefront of strategies to manage dyslipidemia, although they are not always well tolerated. At 6-7 months after the drug was supplied, discontinuation rates averaged 30%. Alternate agents to statins have been studied. Some nutraceuticals demonstrated an efficacy in reducing cholesterol concentrations. However, there are no data regarding the use of nutraceuticals in elderly dyslipidemic patients. The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of a nutraceutical-based protocol in elderly hypercholesterolemic patients previously intolerant to statins. This study was performed as a randomized, prospective, parallel group, single-blind study. Patients were included in the study if they had high total cholesterolemia, high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), >75 years of age, statin-intolerant, and were refusing other pharmaceutical treatments for hypercholesterolemia. At the baseline visit, eligible patients were randomized to either nutraceutical-combined pill (containing berberine 500 mg, policosanol 10 mg, red yeast rice 200 mg, folic acid 0.2 mg, coenzyme Q10 2.0 mg, and astaxanthin 0.5 mg) or placebo, and the first dose was dispensed. The efficacy, safety, and tolerability of the proposed treatment were fully assessed after 3, 6, and 12 months of treatment. Out of 106 consecutive patients screened, 80 eligible patients were randomized to receive either nutraceutical-combined pill (40 patients) or placebo (40 patients). No patients were lost and no deaths occurred during the follow-up. There was a statistically significant reduction in total cholesterolemia (-20%), LDL-C (-31%), and insulin resistance (-10%) with nutraceutical treatment. No significant changes were detected for plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Furthermore, no statistical differences were found between baseline and end-study safety parameters. Medication compliance and tolerability were high. In this study the authors have demonstrated that combined nutraceuticals significantly reduce cholesterolemia and achieved acceptable plasma LDL-C levels in elderly hypercholesterolemic patients who were previously statin-intolerant. Combined nutraceuticals is also safe and well tolerated in these patients.
22113591	Low temperature at the booting stage of rice causes male sterility resulting in severe yield loss. Cold tolerance has long been an important objective in rice breeding. We identified a quantitative trait locus (QTL) for cold tolerance on the long arm of chromosome 3 from the cold-tolerant breeding line 'Ukei 840' by using F(2) and BC(1)F(2) populations from crosses between 'Ukei 840' and 'Hitomebore'. The cold tolerance of 'Ukei 840' is derived from the Chinese cultivar 'Lijiangxintuanheigu'. The effect of this QTL on cold tolerance was confirmed by developing 'Hitomebore' chromosome segment substitution lines having 'Lijiangxintuanheigu' alleles on chromosome 3. By producing recombinants in chromosome 3, the QTL region for cold tolerance was delimited to the region of about 1.2-Mb region between RM3719 and RM7000. All lines heterozygous for the QTL showed seed fertilities as low as that of 'Hitomebore', suggesting that the 'Lijiangxintuanheigu' allele for cold tolerance in the QTL region is recessive. Determination of a 1.2-Mb nucleotide sequence of 'Ukei 840' and comparison with the published genomic sequence of 'Nipponbare' showed 254 SNPs, of which 11 were in coding regions of genes, seven in five genes being non-synonymous. SNPs were detected in the 5-kb upstream regions of 89 genes, but no differences of gene expression levels were detected between alleles of these genes. Although further delimitation is required to identify the gene responsible for cold tolerance of 'Lijiangxintuanheigu', SNP markers developed here will be useful for marker-assisted selection in a breeding program using 'Lijiangxintuanheigu' as a donor of cold tolerance.
22115523	The diagnosis of cows' milk protein allergy (CMPA) requires first the suspicion of diagnosis based on symptoms described in the medical history, and, second, the elimination of cows' milk proteins (CMP) from the infant's diet. Without such rigorous analysis, the elimination of CMP is unjustified, and sometimes harmful. The elimination diet should be strictly followed, at least until 9-12 months of age. If the child is not breast fed or the mother cannot or no longer wishes to breast feed, the first choice is an extensively hydrolysed formula (eHF) of CMP, the efficacy of which has been demonstrated by scientifically sound studies. If it is not tolerated, an amino acid-based formula is warranted. A rice protein-based eHF can be an alternative to a CMP-based eHF. Soya protein-based infant formulae are also a suitable alternative for infants >6 months, after establishing tolerance to soya protein by clinical challenge. CMPA usually resolves during the first 2-3 years. However, the age of recovery varies depending on the child and the type of CMPA, especially whether it is IgE-mediated or not, with the former being more persistent. Once the child reaches the age of 9-12 months, an oral food challenge is carried out in the hospital ward to assess the development of tolerance and, if possible, to allow for the continued reintroduction of CMP at home. Some children with CMPA will tolerate only a limited daily amount of CMP. The current therapeutic options are designed to accelerate the acquisition of tolerance thereof, which seems to be facilitated by repeated exposure to CMP.
22116701	One of the earliest vitamins to be discovered and synthesized, thiamin was originally spelled with an "e". The terminal "e" was dropped when it was found that it was not an amine. It is still spelled with and without the "e" depending on the text. This chapter provides a brief historical review of the association of thiamin with the ancient scourge of beriberi. It emphasizes that beriberi is the model for high calorie malnutrition because of its occurrence in predominantly white rice consuming cultures. Some of the symptomatology of this ancient scourge is described, emphasizing the difference from that seen in starvation. High calorie malnutrition, due to excessive ingestion of simple carbohydrates, is widely encountered in the U.S.A. today. Thiamin deficiency is commonly associated with this, largely because of its cofactor status in the metabolism of glucose. The biochemistry of the three phosphorylated esters of thiamin and the transporters are discussed and the pathophysiology of thiamin deficiency reviewed. The role of thiamin, and particularly its synthetic derivatives as therapeutic agents, is not fully appreciated in Western civilization and a clinical section describes some of the unusual cases described in the scientific literature and some experienced by the author. The possible role of high calorie malnutrition and related thiamin deficiency in juvenile crime is hypothesized.
22117514	To efficiently use both cellulose and hemicellulose for lipid production, rice straw was hydrolyzed by a two-step process including dilute acid pretreatment and then enzymatic hydrolysis, and the hydrolysate was used as carbon source for lipid fermentation by Trichosporon fermentans HWZ004. After a simple overliming, the concentrations of acetic acid, furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl-furfural were 0.4 g/L, 0.1 g/L and 0.05 g/L, respectively. The hydrolysate could be used for lipid fermentation with T. fermentans HWZ004 without adding other nutrients except for a small amount of nitrogen source and trace CuSO4.5H2O. The optimum inoculum size, initial pH and temperature were 5.0%, 7.0 and 25 degrees C, respectively. A total biomass of 26.4 g/L with a lipid content of 52.2% (corresponding to a lipid yield of 13.8 g/L) was achieved after cultivation of T. fermentans HWZ004 under the above-mentioned conditions for 7 days. The lipid coefficient (lipid yield on substrate consumed) is 17.0, which is much higher than the corresponding one (11.9) obtained on detoxified rice straw hemicullulose hydrolysate by original yeast T. fermentans CICC 1368. The fatty acid composition of the lipid was found to be similar to that of vegetable oil and its unsaturated fatty acid content was over 70%, thus the lipid is a promising material for biodiesel production.
22118611	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) govern many aspects of RNA metabolism, including pre-mRNA processing, transport, stability/decay and translation. Although relatively few plant RNA-binding proteins have been characterized genetically and biochemically, more than 200 RBP genes have been predicted in Arabidopsis and rice genomes, suggesting that they might serve specific plant functions. Besides their role in normal cellular functions, RBPs are emerging also as an interesting class of proteins involved in a wide range of post-transcriptional regulatory events that are important in providing plants with the ability to respond rapidly to changes in environmental conditions. Here, we review the most recent results and evidence on the functional role of RBPs in plant adaptation to various unfavourable environmental conditions and their contribution to enhance plant tolerance to abiotic stresses, with special emphasis on osmotic and temperature stress.
22118614	Leaf rolling is known as a typical response to water deficit in numerous species such as rice, maize, wheat and sorghum. However, it results not only from the water deficit but also from other abiotic stress factors such as salt, temperature, heavy metals and UV radiation. In addition to the abiotic factors, herbivores, viruses, bacteria and fungi are biotic factors of leaf rolling. Leaf rolling is an effective protective mechanism from the effects of high light levels in agricultural fields and protects leaves of unirrigated plants from photodamage. The rolling reduces effective leaf area and transpiration, and thus is a potentially useful drought avoidance mechanism in dry areas. The current review focuses on the recent progress in understanding leaf rolling in relation to abiotic and biotic stress factors, the role of signal molecules, and the mechanisms of gene regulation.
22118621	A metabolic depletion syndrome was discovered at early vegetative stages in roots of salt sensitive rice cultivars after prolonged exposure to 100mM NaCl. Metabolite profiling analyses demonstrate that this syndrome is part of the terminal stages of the rice salt response. The phenotype encompasses depletion of at least 30 primary metabolites including sucrose, glucose, fructose, glucose-6-P, fructose-6P, organic- and amino-acids. Based on these observations we reason that sucrose allocation to the root may modify the rice response to high salt. This hypothesis was tested using antisense lines of the salt responsive OsSUT1 gene in the salt sensitive Taipei 309 cultivar. Contrary to our expectations of a plant system impaired in one component of sucrose transport, we find improved gas exchange and photosynthetic performance as well as maintenance of sucrose levels in the root under high salinity. Two independent OsSUT1 lines with an antisense inhibition similar to the naturally occurring salt induced reduction of OsSUT1 gene expression showed these phenomena but not a more extreme antisense inhibition line. We investigated the metabolic depletion syndrome by metabolomic and physiological approaches and discuss our results with regard to the potential role of sucrose transporters and sucrose transport for rice salt acclimation.
22118877	The relationship between the formation of cell wall-bound ferulic acid (FA) and diferulic acid (DFA) and the change in activities of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and cell wall-bound peroxidase (CW-PRX) was studied in rice shoots. The length and the fresh mass of shoots increased during the growth period from day 4 to 6, while coleoptiles ceased elongation growth on day 5. The amounts of FA and DFA isomers as well as cell wall polysaccharides continued to increase during the whole period. The activities of PAL and CW-PRX greatly increased in the same manner during the period. There were close correlations between the PAL activity and ferulate content or between the CW-PRX activity and DFA content. The expression levels of investigated genes for PAL and putative CW-PRX showed good accordance with the activities of these enzymes. These results suggest that increases in PAL and CW-PRX activities are cooperatively involved in the formation of ferulate network in cell walls of rice shoots and that investigated genes may be, at least in part, associated with the enzyme activities. The substantial increase in such network probably causes the maturation of cell walls and thus the cessation of elongation growth of coleoptiles.
22119265	Dry infant foods are not sterile and could be contaminated with various bacteria including certain pathogens. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of Staphylococcus aureus in infant foods and to characterize these strains. A total of 367 infant food samples, including 143 samples of powdered infant formula milk (PIF) and 224 samples of infant rice cereal (IRC), were collected in the Shaanxi Province of China during the period of July to August 2010 and screened for S. aureus. All S. aureus isolates were characterized by antimicrobial susceptibility testing, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), and detection of genes encoding enterotoxins, exfoliative toxins, Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL), and toxic shock syndrome toxin 1. Among all the samples examined, sixteen of 143 PIF samples (11.2%) and 14 of 224 IRC samples (6.3%) were positive for S. aureus. From these positive samples, 29 S. aureus strains were isolated from PIF and 25 from IRC. Of these S. aureus isolates, 83.3% were resistant to at least one antimicrobial, 35.2% to three or more antimicrobials. Resistance was most frequently observed to erythromycin (75.9%), followed by ciprofloxacin (51.9%) and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (27.8%), while significantly fewer isolates were resistant to gentamicin (22.2%), tetracycline (18.5%), or cefoxitin (3.7%). In addition, 63.0% of isolates were positive for one or more toxin genes tested. The three most predominant toxin genes were pvl (40.7%), seg (38.9%), and sec (18.5%), followed by sea (7.4%), seb (7.4%), sed (5.6%), and see (5.6%). The ets, tsst-1, seh, sei, and sej genes were not detected. A total of 39 PFGE patterns were generated among 51 selected food isolates. Our findings indicate that PIF and IRC in the Shaanxi province were contaminated with S. aureus, and many S. aureus isolates harbored multiple toxin genes and exhibited multiple antimicrobial resistance. In addition, these S. aureus isolates were genetically diverse. The presence of S. aureus strains in these infant foods poses a potential threat to infant health.
22119872	A simple and efficient protocol has been developed for high frequency plant regeneration through callus cultures derived from leaf bases of abiotic stress sensitive Asian indica rice variety IR 64. Leaf base segments (4-5 mm diameter) were obtained from 6-day-old dark grown seedlings germinated on halfstrength Murashige and Skoog medium and cultured on MS medium supplemented with different concentrations of 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2.2-18 μM) and Kinetin (0.2-1.7 μM). Among the various combinations, 13.5 μM 2,4-D and 1.3 μM Kn resulted in high callus induction frequency (87.5%) with a maximum fresh weight of 0.22 g per segment. The regeneration frequency was 75.5% with multiple shoots within 3 weeks of transfer on MS medium supplemented with 13.3 μM 6-benzylamino purine and 8 μM Naphthaleneacetic acid. The shoots readily rooted on half-strength MS medium without any hormonal supplements. In vitro regenerated plantlets with multiple shoots and roots were transferred to sterile soil and vermiculite mix and maintained in shade house for 30 days. Complete plantlets were then transferred to nursery and acclimatized to the external environment until seed set. RAPD profile reveals monomorphism and thus confirming the genetic stability of the regenerated plants. This method has the potential for both direct as well as indirect method of transformation for the production of genetically modified plants.
22120082	Syntaxin-related protein KNOLLE, a multifunctional protein family belonging to the SNARE superfamily, plays an important role in many physiological processes in plants. In order to understand the function of the syntaxin-related protein KNOLLE (OsKNOLLE) in rice (Oryza sativa), the CDS sequence of OsKNOLLE gene isolated from a japonica rice cultivar "Zhonghua 11" was fused into an expression vector pYX212 and transformed into the S. cerevisiae strain BY4741 by lithium acetate/single-stranded carrier DNA/polyethylene glycol method. The transformants with OsKNOLLE showed better survival abilities than the transformants with the empty vectors based on their phenotypes in responses to different abiotic stresses such as salt, Cu2+, H2O2, Cd2+, and Hg2+. These data suggests that OsKNOLLE plays a crucial role in re-sponses to abiotic stresses. This experimental system sets up a method for studying functions of the OsKNOLLE gene in the future and clarifies the relationship between OsKNOLLE and abiotic stresses.
22120543	Assessment of ecological impacts of toxicants relies currently on extrapolation of effects observed at organismal or population levels. The uncertainty inherent to such extrapolations, together with the impossibility of predicting ecological effects of chemical mixtures, can only be resolved by adopting approaches that consider toxicological endpoints at a community or ecological level. Experimental data from micro- and mesocosms provide estimates of community effect levels, which can then be used to confirm or correct the extrapolations from theoretical methods such as species sensitivity distributions (SSDs) or others. When assessing impacts, the choice of sensitive community endpoints is important. Four community endpoints (species richness, abundance, diversity and similarity indices) were evaluated in their ability to assess impacts of two insecticides, imidacloprid and etofenprox, and their mixture on aquatic and benthic communities from artificial rice paddies. Proportional changes of each community endpoint were expressed by ratios between their values in the treatment and control paddies. Regression lines fitted to the endpoint ratios against the time series of chemical concentrations were used to predict percentile impacts in the communities. The abundance endpoint appears to be the most sensitive indicator of the communities' response, but the Czekanowski similarity index described best the structural changes that occur in all communities. Aquatic arthropods were more sensitive to the mixture of both insecticides than zooplankton and benthic communities. Estimated protective levels for 95% of aquatic species exposed to imidacloprid (<0.01-1.0 μg l(-1)) were slightly lower than predicted by SSD, whereas for etofenprox the protective concentrations in water (<0.01-0.58 μg l(-1)) were an order of magnitude lower than SSD's predictions.
22120697	The contamination level of T-2 and HT-2 toxin in cereal crops from Aba area in Sichuan Province of China was investigated by rapid liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). The results revealed the high incidence of T-2 and HT-2 toxin and relatively low contamination level in the samples. The incidence of HT-2 toxin was 49.74% and its average level was 3.746 μg/kg. The incidence of toxin was 11.64% and the average level was 0.565 μg/kg. The maximum of T-2 and HT-2 toxin concentration was 3.332 and 34.510 μg/kg, respectively. In addition, contaminated samples not only included homegrown products, but included external purchased rice and flour, which may be attributed to bad storage environment and sanitary conditions.
22120862	Statins are the most effective and widely used drugs for treating dyslipidemia, a major risk factor for coronary heart disease. These are one of the safest hypolipidemic drugs but many patients are bound to discontinue statins due to their side effects. Hepatotoxicity, myotoxicity and peripheral neuropathy are important out of them. Discontinuation of statins leads to dylipidemia and its grave consequences. Hence, there should be enough strategies for statin intolerant patients, so that they can be saved from these consequences. These side effects can be avoided by the awareness of certain factors viz. potential drug interactions and dose adjustment according to patho-physiology of the patient. Baseline investigations for liver function and muscle toxicity should be done before initiating statin therapy. Here, we are discussing various options for statin intolerant hyperlipidemic patients such as lower and intermittent dosing of statins, alternate hypolipidemic drugs, red yeast rice, supplementation with coenzyme Q10 and vitamin D. A number of hypolipidemic drugs are in trial phases and hold promise for statin intolerant patients.
22121003	The bimolecular nucleophilic substitution (S(N)2) reaction of F(a)(-) with NH(2)F(b) has been investigated with the ab initio direct classical trajectory method. According to our trajectory calculations, a dynamic behavior of nonstatistical central barrier recrossing is revealed. Among the 64 trajectories calculated in this work, 45 trajectories follow the dynamic reaction pathways as assumed by statistical theory and other 19 trajectories with central barrier recrossings are nonstatistical. For the nonstatistical trajectories, the central barrier recrossings may originate from the inefficient kinetic energy transfer from the intramolecular modes of the NH(2)F(a) moiety in the dynamic F(b)(-)…H-NH-F(a) complex to the intermolecular modes of the dynamic F(b)(-)…H-NH-F(a) complex on the exit-channel potential energy surface. With respect to the dynamic behavior of the nonstatistical central barrier recrossing, the statistical theories such as the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus and transition state theories without further corrections cannot be used to model the reaction kinetics for this S(N)2 reaction.
22121634	The work reports the synthesis, characterization, and the properties of high-purity silica nanospheres from low-cost rice husk. Primarily, the rice husk was washed with distilled water (DW) and subjected to acid leaching to remove the impurities. The treated rice husk was annealed at different temperatures (620 and 900 degrees C) for varied time periods to achive the desirable silica nanospheres. The annealing temperature and time considerably affected the properties of the synthesized silica nanospheres. The morphology studies confirmed that the size of nanospheres were of approximately 50-60 nm. The photoluminesence studies revealed that the synthesized silica nanospheres showed less structural defects and good optical properties. On the basis of the formation and the characterization of silica nanospheres a possible mechanism was suggested. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis confirmed that the synthesized silica nanospheres contained approximately 99.93% purity.
22122356	Human exposure to cadmium (Cd) is associated with various diseases and high levels of Cd have been detected in Bangladeshi population warranting further research to identify the source of this exposure. In this study, Cd levels in 327 and 94 samples of Bangladeshi food and non-food samples, respectively, were determined using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. This is the largest number of Bangladeshi food and nonfood samples investigated for their Cd content. High Cd levels were detected in leafy vegetables (mean 31 [SD 29]μg/kg). Of these vegetables, lal shak (Amaranthus tricolor) contained the highest Cd level (303 μg/kg [wet weight]; mean 100.5 [SD 95]μg/kg). Bangladeshi rice also showed significant concentration of Cd (mean 37.2 [SD 30]μg/kg). Of particular concern is the very high level of Cd detected in some puffed rice, which we attribute to the illegal practice of using urea for whitening the puffed rice. Tobacco leaves, which are commonly consumed during betel quid chewing by Bangladeshis, contain significant levels of Cd (mean 95 [SD 87]μg/kg). The total daily intake (TDI) of Cd from foods for Bangladeshis was estimated to be 34.55 μg/d. This is rather high when compared to the TDI of Cd for other populations. Our analysis reveals that this is mainly due to the very high intake of rice and vegetables, and lower consumption of animal products (which are low in Cd), by the Bangladeshis. We also determined the provisional maximum tolerable daily intake and target hazard quotients values for Cd. Clearly a more balanced diet is necessary to reduce the Cd intake in the Bangladeshi population, especially by reducing the very high intake of rice and certain leafy vegetables. Food manufacturing and agricultural practices needs to be altered to reduce the entry of Cd into the food chain. Exposure to high levels of Cd can be harmful to human health and this study provides a comprehensive analysis of Cd levels in a variety of food items from Bangladesh. The findings are of particular importance to consumers of Bangladeshi foods in both Bangladesh and in other countries. Data obtained will be valuable resources for food safety and regulatory bodies as our study suggests entry of Cd in foods through use of illegal chemicals in food manufacturing processes.
22122670	Among the different areas of molecular biology concerning the detailed study of different parts of the cell such as genomics, proteomics, or metabolomics, different new areas of study are emerging that entail the analysis of different parts of the genome such as the prediction of genes or different kinds of transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs). The goal of this study is to draw up and analyze a catalog of all statistically relevant putative functional octamer words or motifs found within first introns, promoters, the 5' and 3' UTRs, and the entire genome of japonica rice and compare them to results attained from a previous analysis performed on the Arabidopsis genome. We found a number of novel motifs in different sets of noncoding rice sequence sets. The diversity of motifs in rice was higher in Arabidopsis, implicating a higher mutation turnover. Although common motifs were found between the two species, motif pairs were missing, showing the difference between the regulatory machinery between rice and Arabidopsis.
22122793
22123026	Rice is a major source of dietary intake of cadmium (Cd) for populations that consume rice as a staple food. Understanding how Cd is transported into grains through the whole plant body is necessary for reducing rice Cd concentrations to the lowest levels possible, to reduce the associated health risks. In this study, we have visualized and quantitatively analysed the real-time Cd dynamics from roots to grains in typical rice cultivars that differed in grain Cd concentrations. We used positron-emitting 107Cd tracer and an innovative imaging technique, the positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS). In particular, a new method for direct and real-time visualization of the Cd uptake by the roots in the culture was first realized in this work. Imaging and quantitative analyses revealed the different patterns in time-varying curves of Cd amounts in the roots of rice cultivars tested. Three low-Cd accumulating cultivars (japonica type) showed rapid saturation curves, whereas three high-Cd accumulating cultivars (indica type) were characterized by curves with a peak within 30 min after 107Cd supplementation, and a subsequent steep decrease resulting in maintenance of lower Cd concentrations in their roots. This difference in Cd dynamics may be attributable to OsHMA3 transporter protein, which was recently shown to be involved in Cd storage in root vacuoles and not functional in the high-Cd accumulating cultivars. Moreover, the PETIS analyses revealed that the high-Cd accumulating cultivars were characterized by rapid and abundant Cd transfer to the shoots from the roots, a faster transport velocity of Cd to the panicles, and Cd accumulation at high levels in their panicles, passing through the nodal portions of the stems where the highest Cd intensities were observed. This is the first successful visualization and quantification of the differences in whole-body Cd transport from the roots to the grains of intact plants within rice cultivars that differ in grain Cd concentrations, by using PETIS, a real-time imaging method.
22123088	Plant Zn/Cd/Pb/Co P1B-ATPases (HMAs) play different roles, among which are the control of metal transport from the roots to the shoot and/or from the cytoplasm into the cell vacuole. Transferring the knowledge acquired on HMAs from model species to HMAs from other species requires one to identify orthologues in these other species. Through an extensive screening of the public sequence databases, 96 plant P1B-ATPases showing orthology to any of the AtHMA1, AtHMA2, AtHMA3 or AtHMA4 isoforms were identified from 32 plant species belonging to 15 botanical families. The number of paralogues within a species varied greatly from species to species, even within a specific botanical family, suggesting that gene duplication events occurred after speciation. The phylogenetic tree gathering the Zn/Cd/Pb/Co P1B-ATPases was strongly structured according to the botanical family to which the sequences could be related to. In particular, no strict orthology relationship links the Brassicaceae HMAs to the non-Brassicaceae or the Poaceae ones. Recent data showed that the sole rice HMA characterised to date displays different functional properties from the Arabidopsis HMAs. Altogether, data suggest that it might be risky to directly transfer the knowledge acquired through the study of HMAs in model plant species to HMAs from other species.
22123790	Widespread soil contamination with heavy metals has fostered the need for plant breeders to develop new crops that do not accumulate heavy metals. Metal-transporting transmembrane proteins that transport heavy metals across the plant plasma membrane are key targets for developing these new crops. Oryza sativa heavy metal ATPase 3 (OsHMA3) is known to be a useful gene for limiting cadmium (Cd) accumulation in rice. OsHMA2 is a close homolog of OsHMA3, but the function of OsHMA2 is unknown. To gain insight into the function of OsHMA2, we analyzed three Tos17 insertion mutants. The translocation ratios of zinc (Zn) and Cd were clearly lower in all mutants than in the wild type, suggesting that OsHMA2 is a major transporter of Zn and Cd from roots to shoots. By comparing each allele in the OsHMA2 protein structure and measuring the Cd translocation ratio, we identified the C-terminal region as essential for Cd translocation into shoots. Two alleles were identified as good material for breeding rice that does not contain Cd in the grain but does contain some Zn, and that grows normally.
22124378	Sphaeropsidin A, the main phytotoxin produced by Diplodia cupressi, as well as the two natural analogues sphaeropsidins B and C and 14 derivatives obtained by chemical modifications were assayed for antibacterial activity against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, Pseudomonas fuscovaginae, and Burkholderia glumae, the causal agents of severe bacterial rice diseases. The results showed a strong and specific activity of sphaeropsidin A against X. oryzae pv. oryzae, while no activity was observed against the other two pathogens. The results of structure-activity relationship studies showed that structural features important to impart this antibacterial activity are the presence of the C-7 carbonyl group and the hemiketalic lactone functionality. The C-13 vinyl group, the double bond of ring C, and/or the tertiary C-9 hydroxy group, as well as the pimarane arrangement of the tricylic carbon skeleton, were also important for the antibacterial activity. These findings may be useful in designing novel compounds for practical applications in agriculture.
22124700	In order to support agribusiness and to attain food security for ever-increasing populations, most countries in the world have embraced modern agricultural technologies. Ecological consequences of the technocentric approaches, and their sustainability and impacts on human health have, however, not received adequate attention particularly in developing countries. India is one country that has undergone a rapid transformation in the field of agriculture by adopting strategies of the Green Revolution. This article provides a comparative analysis of the effects of older and newer paradigms of agricultural practices on ecosystem and human health within the larger context of sustainability. The study was conducted in three closely situated areas where different agricultural practices were followed: (a) the head-end of a modern canal-irrigated area, (b) an adjacent dryland, and (c) an area (the ancient area) that has been provided with irrigation for some 800 years. Data were collected by in-depth interviews of individual farmers, focus-group discussions, participatory observations, and from secondary sources. The dryland, receiving limited rainfall, continues to practice diverse cropping centered to a large extent on traditional coarse cereals and uses only small amounts of chemical inputs. On the other hand, modern agriculture in the head-end emphasizes continuous cropping of rice supported by extensive and indiscriminate use of agrochemicals. Market forces have, to a significant degree, influenced the ancient area to abandon much of its early practices of organic farming and to take up aspects of modern agricultural practice. Rice cultivation in the irrigated parts has changed the local landscape and vegetation and has augmented the mosquito population, which is a potential vector for malaria, Japanese encephalitis and other diseases. Nevertheless, despite these problems, perceptions of adverse environmental effects are lowest in the heavily irrigated area.
22124893	Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PLC) is involved in Ca²⁺ mediated signalling events that lead to altered cellular status. Using various sequence-analysis methods, we identified two conserved motifs in known PLC sequences. The identified motifs are located in the C2 domain of plant PLCs and are not found in any other protein. These motifs are specifically found in the Ca²⁺ binding loops and form adjoining beta strands. Further, we identified certain conserved residues that are highly distinct from corresponding residues of animal PLCs. The motifs reported here could be used to annotate plant-specific phospholipase C sequences. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the C2 domain alone is capable of targeting PLC to the membrane in response to a Ca²⁺ signal. We also showed that the binding event results from a change in the hydrophobicity of the C2 domain upon Ca²⁺ binding. Bioinformatic analyses revealed that all PLCs from Arabidopsis and rice lack a transmembrane domain, myristoylation and GPI-anchor protein modifications. Our bioinformatic study indicates that plant PLCs are located in the cytoplasm, the nucleus and the mitochondria. Our results suggest that there are no distinct isoforms of plant PLCs, as have been proposed to exist in the soluble and membrane associated fractions. The same isoform could potentially be present in both subcellular fractions, depending on the calcium level of the cytosol. Overall, these data suggest that the C2 domain of PLC plays a vital role in calcium signalling.
22125231	To establish a production platform for recombinant proteins in rice suspension cells, we first constructed a Gateway-compatible binary T-DNA destination vector. It provided a reliable and effective method for the rapid directional cloning of target genes into plant cells through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. We used the approach to produce mouse granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (mGM-CSF) in a rice suspension cell system. The promoter for the αAmy3 amylase gene, which is induced strongly by sugar depletion, drove the expression of mGM-CSF. The resulting recombinant protein was fused with the αAmy3 signal peptide and was secreted into the culture medium. The production of rice-derived mGM-CSF (rmGM-CSF) was scaled up successfully in a 2-L bioreactor, in which the highest yield of rmGM-CSF was 24.6 mg/L. Due to post-translational glycosylation, the molecular weight of rmGM-CSF was larger than that of recombinant mGM-CSF produced in Escherichia coli. The rmGM-CSF was bioactive and could stimulate the proliferation of a murine myeloblastic leukemia cell line, NSF-60.
22125396	Highly polymorphic and transferable microsatellites (SSRs) are important for comparative genomics, genome analysis and phylogenetic studies. Development of novel species-specific microsatellite markers remains a costly and labor-intensive project. Therefore, interest has been shifted from genomic to genic markers owing to their high inter-species transferability as they are developed from conserved coding regions of the genome. This study concentrates on comparative analysis of genic microsatellites in nine important legume (Arachis hypogaea, Cajanus cajan, Cicer arietinum, Glycine max, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Phaseolus vulgaris, Pisum sativum and Vigna unguiculata) and two model plant species (Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana). Screening of a total of 228090 putative unique sequences spanning 219610522 bp using a microsatellite search tool, MISA, identified 12.18% of the unigenes containing 36248 microsatellite motifs excluding mononucleotide repeats. Frequency of legume unigene-derived SSRs was one SSR in every 6.0 kb of analyzed sequences. The trinucleotide repeats were predominant in all the unigenes with the exception of C. cajan, which showed prevalence of dinucleotide repeats over trinucleotide repeats. Dinucleotide repeats along with trinucleotides counted for more than 90% of the total microsatellites. Among dinucleotide and trinucleotide repeats, AG and AAG motifs, respectively, were the most frequent. Microsatellite positive chickpea unigenes were assigned Gene Ontology (GO) terms to identify the possible role of unigenes in various molecular and biological functions. These unigene based microsatellite markers will prove valuable for recording allelic variance across germplasm collections, gene tagging and searching for putative candidate genes.
22125684	The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of skipping breakfast on diet quality and metabolic disease risk factors in healthy Korean adults. Subjects included 415 employees (118 men, 297 women; 30-50 years old) of Jaesang Hospital in Korea and their acquaintances. Data collected from each subject included anthropometric measurements, 3-day dietary intake, blood pressure, and blood analyses. The subjects were classified into three groups based on the number of days they skipped breakfast: 'Regular breakfast eater', 'Often breakfast eater', or 'Rare breakfast eater'. Participants in the 'Rare breakfast eater' group consumed less rice, potatoes, kimchi, vegetables, fish and shellfish, milk and dairy products, and sweets than did participants in the other two groups (P for trend < 0.05) and ate more cookies, cakes, and meat for dinner (P for trend < 0.05). Participants in the 'Rare breakfast eater' group consumed less daily energy, fat, dietary fiber, calcium, and potassium than did participants in the other groups (P for trend < 0.05). The percent energy from carbohydrates was lower and fat intake was higher in the 'Rare breakfast eater' group than in the other groups (P for trend < 0.01). When diets were compared using the Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Range for Koreans, 59.1% of subjects in the 'Rare breakfast eater' group consumed more energy from fat compared with the other two groups (P < 0.005). According to the Estimated Average Requirements for Koreans, intake of selected nutrients was lower in the 'Rare breakfast eater' group than in the other two groups (P < 0.05). The risk of elevated serum triglycerides was decreased in the 'Rare breakfast eater' group (OR, 0.3 [0.1-1.0], P for trend = 0.0232). We conclude that eating breakfast regularly enhances diet quality, but may increase the risk of elevated serum triglycerides.
22125909	Air and soil pollution from traffic has been considered as a critical issue to crop production and food safety, however, few efforts have been paid on distinguish the source origin of traffic-related contaminants in rice plant along highway. Therefore, we investigated metals (Pb, Cd, Cr, Zn and Cu) concentrations and stable Pb isotope ratios in rice plants exposed and unexposed to highway traffic pollution in Eastern China in 2008. Significant differences in metals concentrations between the exposed and unexposed plants existed in leaf for Pb, Cd and Zn, in stem only for Zn, and in grain for Pb and Cd. About 46% of Pb and 41% of Cd in the grain were attributed to the foliar uptake from atmosphere, and there were no obvious contribution of atmosphere to the accumulations of Cr, Zn and Cu in grain. Except for Zn, all of the heavy metals in stem were attributed to the root uptake from soil, although significant accumulations of Pb and Cd from atmosphere existed in leaf. This indicated that different processes existed in the subsequent translocation of foliar-absorbed heavy metals between rice organs. The distinct separation of stable Pb isotope ratios among rice grain, leaf, stem, soil and vehicle exhaust further provided evidences on the different pathways of heavy metal accumulation in rice plant. These results suggested that further more attentions should be paid to the atmospheric deposition of heavy metals from traffic emission when plan crop layout for food safety along highway.
22126044	A field experiment was conducted in the Taihu Lake region of southern Jiangsu to study the effects of applying nitrogen (N) fertilizer and fertilizer additive on the rice yield and the rice plant N uptake, translocation, and utilization. Applying N fertilizer had significant positive effects on the rice yield, accumulative absorbed N at all growth stages and at each growth stage, and N translocation rate after anthesis (P < 0.01). However, when the N application rate exceeded 200 kg x hm(-2), its yield-increasing effect was not significant (P > 0.05). The N translocation rate after anthesis and the N fertilizer use efficiency decreased with increasing N application rate. Applying fertilizer additive further improved the rice yield, accumulative absorbed N, N translocation rate after anthesis, and N fertilizer use efficiency, and this effect was more evident when the N application rate was equal to or greater than 200 kg x hm(-2). Relatively high rice yield and N use efficiency were achieved when applying 150 kg x hm(-2) of N fertilizer without the application of fertilizer additive.
22126049	To investigate the dynamic distribution patterns of nitrous oxide (N2O) in the soil profiles in paddy fields with different rice-upland crop rotation systems, a special soil gas collection device was adopted to monitor the dynamics of N2O at the soil depths 7, 15, 30, and 50 cm in the paddy fields under both flooding and drainage conditions. Two rotation systems were installed, i.e., wheat-single rice and oilseed rape-double rice, each with or without nitrogen (N) application. Comparing with the control, N application promoted the N2O production in the soil profiles significantly (P < 0.01), and there existed significant correlations in the N2O concentration among the four soil depths during the whole observation period (P < 0.01). In the growth seasons of winter wheat and oilseed rape under drainage condition and with or without N application, the N2O concentrations at the soil depths 30 cm and 50 cm were significantly higher than those at the soil depths 7 cm and 15 cm; whereas in the early rice growth season under flooding condition and without N application, the N2O concentrations at the soil depth 7 cm and 15 cm were significantly higher than those at the soil depths 30 cm and 50 cm (P < 0.05). No significant differences were observed in the N2O concentrations at the test soil depths among the other rice cropping treatments. The soil N2O concentrations in the treatments without N application peaked in the transitional period from the upland crops cropping to rice planting, while those in the treatments with N application peaked right after the second topdressing N of upland crops. Relatively high soil N2O concentrations were observed at the transitional period from the upland crops cropping to rice planting.
22126081	To accelerate the conversion of rice straw into feeds in the low-temperature region, a microbial community was constructed by continuous enrichment cultivation. Microbial diversity and dynamics during the fermentation at 10 degrees C was analyzed. The community was selected at 5 degrees C under static condition. To analyze the inoculating effects, the community and commercial inoculant (CI: composed of Lactobacillus plantarum, Enterococcus faecium, L. salivarilus, Pediococcus acidilactici) were respectively inoculated into the rice straw for 30 d fermentation at 10 degrees C. Fermented products were detected by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Composition microorganisms of the community were analyzed using cloning library. Microbial dynamics during the fermentation was detected by denatured gradient gel eletrophoresis (DGGE). Quantitative PCR was used for tracking the composition microorganisms of the community during the fermentation. The results from 16S rDNA cloning library showed that the community was mainly composed of Lactobacillus spp. and Leuconostoc spp. At 6d fermentation, the pH and the lactic acid bacterial colony forming units (LAB CFUs) in the fermented rice straw with the community amounted to 4.3 and 2.9 x 10(9) CFU/g fresh matter (FM), respectively. The pH and LAB CFUs with the CI were respectively 5.3 and 2.9 x 10(9) CFU/g FM. At 30 d fermentation, the lactic acid concentrations with the community and the CI were respectively 8.1 g/kg FM and 2.0 g/kg FM. From DGGE patterns, both L. sakei and Leuconostoc inhae of the community were detected at 6d fermentation and existed during the fermentation. For the treatment with the CI, the uncultured bacterium was detected at 6d fermentation besides the composition microorganisms of the CI. At 16d and 30d fermentation, only L. plantarum and E. faecium were detected. Quantitative PCR showed DNA mass of L. sakei amounted to 41.0% at 6d fermentation in the treatment with the community. At 16d, DNA mass of L. sakei was 65%. The highest value (5.5%) of DNA mass of Le inhae appeared at 6d of fermentation. The community could effectively colonize into the rice straw fermentation system and accelerate the fermentation process at low temperature. The dominating microorganism of the community was L. sakei at 10 degrees C.
22126328	The use of biodegradable plastics can reduce the accumulation of environmentally persistent plastic wastes. The rate of degradation of biodegradable plastics depends on environmental conditions and is highly variable. Techniques for achieving more consistent degradation are needed. However, only a few microorganisms involved in the degradation process have been isolated so far from the environment. Here, we show that Pseudozyma spp. yeasts, which are common in the phyllosphere and are easily isolated from plant surfaces, displayed strong degradation activity on films made from poly-butylene succinate or poly-butylene succinate-co-adipate. Strains of P. antarctica isolated from leaves and husks of paddy rice displayed strong degradation activity on these films at 30°C. The type strain, P. antarctica JCM 10317, and Pseudozyma spp. strains from phyllosphere secreted a biodegradable plastic-degrading enzyme with a molecular mass of about 22 kDa. Reliable source of biodegradable plastic-degrading microorganisms are now in our hands.
22127125	Xanthomonas oryzae causes rice bacterial blight, which has been reported as one of the most destructive diseases of rice. Metabolites were identified through cheonggukjang, a traditional Korean fermented soybean product fermented by the Bacillus spp., to control the bacteria. HPLC, MS, and UPLC-Q-TOF-MS analyses were performed to identify metabolites responsible for antimicrobial activity. In this analysis, the m/z values of 253.0498, 283.0600, 269.0455, 992.6287, and 1,006.6436 were identified as daidzein, glycitein, genistein, surfactin B, and surfactin A, respectively. The levels of surfactin B and surfactin A were found to be high at 24 h (4.35 μg/ml) and 36 h (3.43 μg/ml) of fermentation, respectively.
22127189	One major concern regarding the release of Bt rice is its potential impact through tritrophic interactions on nontarget arthropods, especially natural enemies. We studied the effects of two Bt transgenic rice varieties, TT9- 3 and KMD1, expressing Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac and Cry1Ab, respectively, on a predatory ground spider [Ummeliata insecticeps (Bösenberg et Strand)] supplied with Bt rice-fed brown planthopper [Nilaparvata lugens (Stål)] nymphs. Although immunoassays confirmed that U. insecticeps ingested Bt insecticidal protein when supplied with Bt rice-fed N. lugens, no negative effects were found on its survival and development. Furthermore, the fecundity of U. insecticeps fed prey reared on Bt rice was not significantly different from that of those fed prey reared on non-Bt rice. A 3-yr field trial indicated that Bt rice did not significantly affect the population density of U. insecticeps in comparison with non-Bt rice. In conclusion, the Bt rice lines tested in this study had no adverse effects on the survival, developmental time, or fecundity of U. insecticeps in the laboratory or on population dynamics in the field.
22127413	In this study, we report the molecular characterization and functional analysis of OsLEA5 gene, which belongs to the atypical late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) group 5C from Oryza sativa L. The cDNA of OsLEA5 contains a 456 bp ORF encoding a polypeptide of 151 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 16.5 kDa and a theoretical pI of 5.07. The OsLEA5 polypeptide is rich in Leu (10%), Ser (8.6%), and Asp (8.6%), while Cys, Trp, and Gln residue contents are very low, which are 2, 1.3, and 1.3%, respectively. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that group 5C LEA protein subfamily contains a Pfam:LEA_2 domain architecture and is highly hydrophobic, intrinsically ordered with largely β-sheet and specific amino acid composition and distribution. Real-time PCR analysis showed that OsLEA5 was expressed in different tissue organs during different development stages of rice. The expression levels of OsLEA5 in the roots and panicles of full ripe stage were dramatically increased. The results of stress tolerance and cell viability assay demonstrated that recombinant E. coli cells producing OsLEA5 fusion protein exhibited improved resistance against diverse abiotic stresses: high salinity, osmotic, freezing, heat, and UV radiation. The OsLEA5 protein confers stabilization of the LDH under different abiotic stresses, such as heating, freeze-thawing, and drying in vitro. The combined results indicated that OsLEA5 protein was a hydrophobic atypical LEA and closely associated with resistance to multiple abiotic stresses. This research offered the valuable information for the development of crops with enhanced resistance to diverse stresses.
22128137	Plant mitochondrial genomes have features that distinguish them radically from their animal counterparts: a high rate of rearrangement, of uptake and loss of DNA sequences, and an extremely low point mutation rate. Perhaps the most unique structural feature of plant mitochondrial DNAs is the presence of large repeated sequences involved in intramolecular and intermolecular recombination. In addition, rare recombination events can occur across shorter repeats, creating rearrangements that result in aberrant phenotypes, including pollen abortion, which is known as cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS). Using next-generation sequencing, we pyrosequenced two rice (Oryza sativa) mitochondrial genomes that belong to the indica subspecies. One genome is normal, while the other carries the wild abortive-CMS. We find that numerous rearrangements in the rice mitochondrial genome occur even between close cytotypes during rice evolution. Unlike maize (Zea mays), a closely related species also belonging to the grass family, integration of plastid sequences did not play a role in the sequence divergence between rice cytotypes. This study also uncovered an excellent candidate for the wild abortive-CMS-encoding gene; like most of the CMS-associated open reading frames that are known in other species, this candidate was created via a rearrangement, is chimeric in structure, possesses predicted transmembrane domains, and coopted the promoter of a genuine mitochondrial gene. Our data give new insights into rice mitochondrial evolution, correcting previous reports.
22129064	This study investigated the protective effect of a liquid rice hull smoke extract (RHSE) against diabetes in alloxan-induced diabetic mice. Antidiabetic effects of RHSE were evaluated in both the rat insulinoma-1 cell line (INS-1) and diabetic ICR mice induced by intraperitoneal (ip) injection of alloxan. Alloxan treatment (10 mM) increased cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in the INS-1 cells, which were inversely related to cell viabilities. RHSE inhibited alloxan-induced nitric oxide (NO) generation through inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene expression and suppressed the inflammatory reaction in INS-1 cells through inhibition of expression of pro-inflammatory genes, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Dietary administration of 0.5 or 1% RHSE to alloxan-induced diabetic mice caused a decrease in blood glucose and increases in both serum insulin and hepatic glycogen levels. RHSE induced decreases in glucose-6-phosphatase (G6 Pase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) levels and an increase in the glucokinase (GCK) level. These changes resulted in restoring glucose-regulating enzyme levels to control values. Histopathology showed that alloxan also induced damage of Langerhans islet cells of the pancreas and liver necrosis associated with diabetes. Oral administration of RHSE restored the islet and liver cells to normal levels. RHSE-supplemented functional food could protect insulin-producing islet cells against damage triggered by oxidative stress and local inflammation associated with diabetes.
22129331	Starch, an essential component of an equilibrated diet, is present in cereals such as common and durum wheat, maize, rice, and rye, in roots and tubers such as potato and cassava, and in legumes such as peas. During food processing, starch mainly undergoes nonchemical transformations. Here, we focus on the occurrence of starch in food raw materials, its composition and properties, and its transformations from raw material to final products. We therefore describe a number of predominant food processes and identify research needs. Nonchemical transformations that are dealt with include physical damage to starch, gelatinization, amylose-lipid complex formation, amylose crystallization, and amylopectin retrogradation. A main focus is on wheat-based processes. (Bio)chemical modifications of starch by amylolytic enzymes are dealt with only in the context of understanding the starch component in bread making.
22130080	Rice straw has attracted significant interest in Japan as a potential raw material for biorefineries. Combination of hot-compressed water treatment (HCWT) and wet disk milling (WDM) was investigated to improve the enzymatic digestibility of rice straw and enhance sugar recovery yield. Rice straw, cut to <3 mm, was autoclaved at 121, 135, and 150 °C for 60 min, and subsequently treated by wet disk milling. WDM with HCWT at 135 °C for 60 min produced maximum xylose and glucose yields of 79% and 90%, respectively, at 10 FPU/g-substrate cellulase loading. Autoclaving at 150 °C leaked a 35% arabinose effluence in the liquid phase. Hydrolysis via WDM with HCWT required a lower enzyme loading (5 FPU/g-substrate) than either pretreatment process in isolation for >70% xylose and 80% glucose yield. Economical analysis indicate that enzymes cost for ethanol production is reduced by 19-67% by WDM with HCWT.
22130081	The objectives of this study are to compare the performance of newly developed baffled and conventional horizontal subsurface-flow (HSF) constructed wetlands in the removal of nitrogen at the hydraulic retention times (HRT) of 2, 3 and 5 days and to evaluate the potential of rice husk as wetland media for wastewater treatment. The results show that the planted baffled unit achieved 74%, 84% and 99% ammonia nitrogen (NH(4)(+)-N) removal versus 55%, 70% and 96% for the conventional unit at HRT of 2, 3 and 5 days, respectively. The better performance of the baffled unit was explained by the longer pathway due to the up-flow and down-flow conditions sequentially thus allowing more contact of the wastewater with the rhizomes and micro-aerobic zones. Near complete total oxidized nitrogen was observed due to the use of rice husk as wetland media which provided the COD as the electron donor in the denitrification process.
22130311	Newcastle disease (ND) and avian influenza (AI) are issues of interest to avian producers in Madagascar. Newcastle disease virus (NDV) is the major constraint for village aviculture, and avian influenza viruses type A (AIAV) are known to circulate in bird flocks. This study aims at classifying smallholder poultry farms, according to the combination of risk factors potentially associated with NDV and AIAV transmission and to assess the level of infection for each farm class. Two study sites, Lake Alaotra and Grand Antananarivo, were chosen with respect to their differences in terms of agro-ecological features and poultry productions. A typology survey involving 526 farms was performed to identify possible risk factors for (i) within-village, and (ii) between-village virus transmission. A cross-sectional serological study was also carried out in 270 farms to assess sero-prevalences of NDV and AIAV for each farm class and the link between them and risk factor patterns. For within-village transmission, four classes of farms were identified in Grand Antananarivo and five in Lake Alaotra. For between-village virus transmission, four classes of farms were identified for each site. In both sites, NDV sero-prevalence was higher than for AIAV. There was no evidence of the presence of H5 or H7 subtypes of AIAV. Sero-prevalences were significantly higher in Lake Alaotra than in Grand Antananarivo for both viruses (OR=2.4, p=0.02 for NDV, and OR=9.6, p<0.0001 for AIAV). For within-village NDV transmission in Grand Antananarivo, backyard chicken farms (OR=3.6, p<0.001), and chicken farms with biosecurity awareness (OR=3.4, p<0.01) had greater odds of having antibodies against NDV than the others. For between-village virus transmission, farms with multiple external contacts, and farms using many small markets had greater odds of having antibodies against NDV than the others (OR=5.4, p<0.01). For AIAV, there were no differences in sero-prevalences among farm classes. In Lake Alaotra, the observed high density of palmipeds and widespread rice paddies were associated with high sero-prevalences for both viruses, and a homogeneous risk of virus transmission between the different farm classes. In Grand Antananarivo, farm visits by collectors or animal health workers, and farm contacts with several markets were identified as potential risk factors for NDV transmission. Further studies are needed to identify the circulating virus genotypes, model their transmission risk, and provide adapted control measures.
22130861	Increasing evidence has revealed the major enzymes-involved in Arabidopsis and maize wax/cutin synthesis; however, there is limited information about the genes-associated with wax/cutin synthesis in rice. Here we report the characterization of an ethylene response factor gene in rice. This rice wax synthesis regulatory gene 1 (OsWR1) is a homolog of Arabidopsis wax/cutin synthesis regulatory gene WIN1/SHN1. Transcript analysis showed that OsWR1 is induced by drought, abscisic acid and salt, and is predominantly expressed in leaves. Functional analyses indicated that overexpressing OsWR1 (Ox-WR1) improved while RNA interference OsWR1 rice (RI-WR1) decreased drought tolerance, consistent with water loss and cuticular permeability, suggesting that OsWR1-triggered drought response might be associated with cuticular characteristics. In addition, OsWR1 activated the expression of the genes-related to oxidative stress response and membrane stability. Gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry analysis further showed that OsWR1 modulated the wax synthesis through alteration of long chain fatty acids and alkanes, evidencing the regulation of OsWR1 in wax synthesis. Detection with real-time PCR amplification indicated that Ox-WR1 enhanced while RI-WR1 decreased the expression of wax/cutin synthesis related genes. Furthermore, OsWR1 physically interacted with the DRE and GCC box in the promoters of wax related genes OsLACS2 and OsFAE1'-L, indicating that OsWR1 at least directly modulates the expression of these genes. Thus our results indicate that OsWR1 is a positive regulator of wax synthesis related genes in rice, and this regulation, distinct from its homology regulator of WIN1/SHN1 in cutin synthesis, subsequently contributes to reduced water loss and enhanced drought tolerance.
22131052	Organisms can adjust their phenotype in response to changing environmental conditions. This phenomenon is termed phenotypic plasticity. Despite its ubiquitous occurrence, there has been very little study on the molecular mechanism of phenotypic plasticity. In this study, we isolated a rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant, rice plasticity 1 (rpl1), that displayed increased environment-dependent phenotypic variations. RPL1 was expressed in all tissues examined. The protein was localized in the nucleus and its distribution in the nucleus overlapped with heterochromatin. The rpl1 mutation led to an increase in DNA methylation on repetitive sequences and a decrease in overall histone acetylation. In addition, the mutation affected responses of the rice plant to phytohormones such as brassinosteroid, gibberellin, and cytokinin. Analysis of the putative rice brassinosteroid receptor OsBRI1, a key hormone signaling gene, indicated that RPL1 may be involved in the regulation of epigenomic modification of the gene. These data suggest that RPL1 regulated phenotypic plasticity likely through its involvement in epigenetic processes affecting responses of the plant to phytohormones.
22131104	In this study, simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) was employed to produce ethanol from 1% sodium hydroxide-treated rice straw in a thermostatically controlled glass reactor using 20 FPU gds⁻¹ cellulase, 50 IU gds⁻¹ β-glucosidase, 15 IU gds⁻¹ pectinase and a newly isolated thermotolerant Pichia kudriavzevii HOP-1 strain. Scanning electron micrograph images showed that the size of the P. kudriavzevii cells ranged from 2.48 to 6.93 μm in diameter while the shape of the cells varied from oval, ellipsoidal to elongate. Pichia kudriavzevii cells showed extensive pseudohyphae formation after 5 days of growth and could assimilate sugars like glucose, sucrose, galactose, fructose, and mannose but the cells could not assimilate xylose, arabinose, cellobiose, raffinose, or trehalose. In addition, the yeast cells could tolerate up to 40% glucose and 5% NaCl concentrations but their growth was inhibited at 1% acetic acid and 0.01% cyclohexamide concentrations. Pichia kudriavzevii produced about 35 and 200% more ethanol than the conventional Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells at 40 and 45°C, respectively. About 94% glucan in alkali-treated rice straw was converted to glucose through enzymatic hydrolysis within 36 h. Ethanol concentration of 24.25 g l⁻¹ corresponding to 82% theoretical yield on glucan basis and ethanol productivity of 1.10 g l⁻¹ h⁻¹ achieved using P. kudriavzevii during SSF hold promise for scale-up studies. An insignificant amount of glycerol and no xylitol was produced during SSF. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study reporting ethanol production from any lignocellulosic biomass using P. kudriavzevii.
22131276	Rice embryo is concentrated with lipid, protein and some bioactive chemicals. Two rice mutants IR64-GE and TNG71-GE (M7 generation) were characterised by an enlarged embryo compared with their wild types. In the present study, distributions of protein, lipid, total phenolics, γ-oryzanol, tocols and some essential minerals in these two giant embryo mutants and their respective normal embryo wild types IR64 and TNG71 were compared. The embryo dry weights of giant embryo mutants IR64-GE and TNG71-GE were 0.92 and 1.32 mg per seed respectively. These values were higher than those of their respective normal embryo genotypes (0.50 and 0.62 mg per seed). Large variations in protein, lipid, phenolic, γ-oryzanol, tocol and minerals levels were found between mutant and wild-type pairs. The brown rice of TNG71-GE had higher total γ-oryzanol (average of 24% increase) and total tocol (average of 75% increase) levels than TNG71, IR64 and IR64-GE. The embryo and bran parts of giant embryo mutant TNG71-GE were found to be good sources of vitamin E and γ-oryzanol. Therefore it could be used to produce high-value by-products from milled embryo and bran parts and as a genetic resource for rice improvement programmes. TNG71-GE can also be used as a nutrient-fortified rice cultivar.
22131761	This research is carried out with the aim to study Agnidipana effect of Panchakola Siddha Yavagu which comprises Pippali (Piper longum), Pippalimula (root of Piper longum), Chavya (Piper chaba Hunter), Chitraka (Plumbago zelynica) and Nagara (Zingiber officinale) which are all in equal proportion processed in six times of water. A randomized open clinical trial on 47 patients of Agnimandya has been screened on the basis of clinical findings and the patients were allocated to two groups. Group A having 29 cases received the trial drug (Panchakola Siddha Yavagu) and 18 cases in Group B received simple Yavagu with roasted rice powder as the control group. Special scoring pattern was done for the assessment of Agnimandya state. Complete cure of the patient was found in 17.24% of the patients, 34.48% patients were improved moderately as well as markedly, whereas mild improvement was observed in 13.80% patients by treatment with Panchakola Yavagu.
22132208	The regulation of ribosomal proteins in plants under stress conditions has not been well studied. Although a few reports have shown stress-specific post-transcriptional and translational mechanisms involved in downregulation of ribosomal proteins yet stress-responsive transcriptional regulation of ribosomal proteins is largely unknown in plants. In the present work, transcriptional regulation of genes encoding rice 60S ribosomal protein L32 (rpL32) in response to salt stress has been studied. Northern and RT-PCR analyses showed a significant downregulation of rpL32 transcripts under abiotic stress conditions in rice. Of the four rpL32 genes in rice genome, the gene on chromosome 8 (rpL32_8.1) showed a higher degree of stress-responsive downregulation in salt sensitive rice variety than in tolerant one and its expression reverted to its original level upon withdrawal of stress. The nuclear run-on and promoter:reporter assays revealed that the downregulation of this gene is transcriptional and originates within the promoter region. Using in vivo footprinting and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), cis-elements in the promoter of rpL32_8.1 showing reduced binding to proteins in shoots of salt stressed rice seedlings were identified. The present work is one of the few reports on study of stress downregulated genes. The data revealed that rpL32 gene is transcriptionally downregulated under abiotic stress in rice and that this transcriptional downregulation is associated with the removal of transcription factors from specific promoter elements.
22132219	Genetically modified (GM) plants offer an ideal model system to study the influence of single genes that confer constitutive resistance to pathogens on the ecological behaviour of plants. We used phytometers to study competitive interactions between GM lines of spring wheat Triticum aestivum carrying such genes and control lines. We hypothesized that competitive performance of GM lines would be reduced due to enhanced transgene expression under pathogen levels typically encountered in the field. The transgenes pm3b from wheat (resistance against powdery mildew Blumeria graminis) or chitinase and glucanase genes from barley (resistance against fungi in general) were introduced with the ubiquitin promoter from maize (pm3b and chitinase genes) or the actin promoter from rice (glucanase gene). Phytometers of 15 transgenic and non-transgenic wheat lines were transplanted as seedlings into plots sown with the same 15 lines as competitive environments and subject to two soil nutrient levels. Pm3b lines had reduced mildew incidence compared with control lines. Chitinase and chitinase/glucanase lines showed the same high resistance to mildew as their control in low-nutrient treatment and slightly lower mildew rates than the control in high-nutrient environment. Pm3b lines were weaker competitors than control lines. This resulted in reduced yield and seed number. The Pm3b line with the highest transgene expression had 53.2% lower yield than the control whereas the Pm3b line which segregated in resistance and had higher mildew rates showed only minor costs under competition. The line expressing both chitinase and glucanase genes also showed reduced yield and seed number under competition compared with its control. Our results suggest that single transgenes conferring constitutive resistance to pathogens can have ecological costs and can weaken plant competitiveness even in the presence of the pathogen. The magnitude of these costs appears related to the degree of expression of the transgenes.
22132759	In this study, 10 already described secondary metabolites and 2 unknown metabolites were identified in an extract of Monascus purpureus by high-performance liquid chromatography-diode array detection. The unknown metabolites were isolated and their chemical structures were elucidated. The new metabolites possess the molecular formulas C(21)H(27)NO(4) and C(23)H(31)NO(4). They were named monascopyridines E and F due to their pyridine backbone. The cytotoxicity of the new compounds was studied using immortalised human kidney epithelial cells displaying IC(50) values in the micromolar range.
22132793	A previously characterized rice hull smoke extract (RHSE) was tested for bactericidal activity against Salmonella Typhimurium using the disc-diffusion method. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) value of RHSE was 0.822% (v/v). The in vivo antibacterial activity of RHSE (1.0%, v/v) was also examined in a Salmonella-infected Balb/c mouse model. Mice infected with a sublethal dose of the pathogens were administered intraperitoneally a 1.0% solution of RHSE at four 12-h intervals during the 48-h experimental period. The results showed that RHSE inhibited bacterial growth by 59.4%, 51.4%, 39.6%, and 28.3% compared to 78.7%, 64.6%, 59.2%, and 43.2% inhibition with the medicinal antibiotic vancomycin (20 mg/mL). By contrast, 4 consecutive administrations at 12-h intervals elicited the most effective antibacterial effect of 75.0% and 85.5% growth reduction of the bacteria by RHSE and vancomycin, respectively. The combination of RHSE and vancomycin acted synergistically against the pathogen. The inclusion of RHSE (1.0% v/w) as part of a standard mouse diet fed for 2 wk decreased mortality of 10 mice infected with lethal doses of the Salmonella. Photomicrographs of histological changes in liver tissues show that RHSE also protected the liver against Salmonella-induced pathological necrosis lesions. These beneficial results suggest that the RHSE has the potential to complement wood-derived smokes as antimicrobial flavor formulations for application to human foods and animal feeds. The new antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory rice hull derived liquid smoke has the potential to complement widely used wood-derived liquid smokes as an antimicrobial flavor and health-promoting formulation for application to foods.
22132859	Chan (Hyptis suaveolens L.) seeds have been used as food as well as in traditional medicine in several countries of America, Asia and Africa. Chan seed protein content was 13.9% on dry weight basis. Analysis of its protein composition showed 39% globulins, 36% glutelins, 24% albumins, and 1% prolamins. By defatting the flour with chloroform/methanol, it increased the extracted proteins and improved the protein band resolution after SDS-PAGE, showing 5 albumin bands, 8 globulin bands, and 2 prolamin and glutelin bands. The aromatic amino acid content in chan seeds is higher than those of other grains including maize, with good levels of branched chain amino acids. In general, except for lysine, it has a well-balanced amino acid composition, providing a good supply of almost all the essential amino acids for the different age groups. Magnesium content was high, whereas calcium, potassium, and phosphorous were in the average range when compared to barley, oat, rice, and wheat. The present results indicate that seeds from the chan plant could be relevant because of their nutritional properties and they have the potential to be widely used in the production of high-quality food. Chan seeds are presently used in a very limited manner as a food source; however, considering their high quality composition, they have the potential for a more extended use in the food industry.
22133686	Introgression lines (ILs) are valuable materials for identifying quantitative trait loci (QTLs), evaluating genetic interactions, and marker assisted breeding. A set of 430 ILs (BC(5)F(3)) containing segments from upland tropical japonica cultivar IRAT109 in a lowland temperate japonica cultivar Yuefu background were developed. One hundred and seventy-six polymorphic markers were used to identify introgressed segments. No segment from IRAT109 was found in 160 lines. Introgressed segments of the other 270 lines covered 99.1% of the donor genome. The mean number of introgressed donor segments per individual was 3.3 with an average length of 14.4 cM. QTL analysis was conducted on basal root thickness (BRT) of the 270 ILs grown under irrigated lowland, upland and hydroponic conditions. A total of 22 QTLs affecting BRT were identified, six QTLs (qBRT3.1, qBRT3.2, qBRT6.1, qBRT8.2, qBRT9.1, and qBRT9.2) were consistently expressed under at least two environments (location and water regime), and qBRT7.2 was a new BRT QTL identified under lowland conditions. IL255 containing qBRT9.1 showed an increase of 10.09% and 7.07% BRT over cultivar Yuefu when grown under upland and lowland conditions, respectively. Using a population of 304 F(2:3) lines derived from the cross IL255×Yuefu, qBRT9.1 was validated and mapped to a 1.2 cM interval between RM24271 and RM566. The presence of qBRT9.1 explained 12% of BRT variation. The results provide upland rice ILs and BRT QTLs for analyzing the genetic basis of drought resistance, detecting favorable genes from upland rice, and rice drought resistance breeding.
22134719	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) is a plant bacterial pathogen that causes bacterial blight (BB) disease, resulting in serious production losses of rice. The crystal structure of malonyl CoA-acyl carrier protein transacylase (XoMCAT), encoded by the gene fabD (Xoo0880) from Xoo, was determined at 2.3 Å resolution in complex with N-cyclohexyl-2-aminoethansulfonic acid. Malonyl CoA-acyl carrier protein transacylase transfers malonyl group from malonyl CoA to acyl carrier protein (ACP). The transacylation step is essential in fatty acid synthesis. Based on the rationale, XoMCAT has been considered as a target for antibacterial agents against BB. Protein-protein interaction between XoMCAT and ACP was also extensively investigated using computational docking, and the proposed model revealed that ACP bound to the cleft between two XoMCAT subdomains.
22134721	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is a viral disease that seriously impacts rice production in East Asia, most notably in Korea, China, and Japan. Highly RSV-resistant transgenic japonica rice plants were generated using a dsRNAi construct designed to silence the entire sequence region of the RSV-CP gene. Transgenic rice plants were inoculated with a population of viruliferous insects, small brown planthoppers (SBPH), and their resistance was evaluated using ELISA and an infection rate assay. A correlation between the expression of the RSV-CP homologous small RNAs and the RSV resistance of the transgenic rice lines was discovered. These plants were also analyzed by comparing the expression pattern of invading viral genes, small RNA production and the stable transmission of the RSV resistance trait to the T3 generation. Furthermore, the agronomic trait was stably transmitted to the T4 generation of transgenic plants.
22134723	In field conditions, the zebra2 (z2) mutant in rice (Oryza sativa) produces leaves with transverse pale-green/yellow stripes. It was recently reported that ZEBRA2 encodes carotenoid isomerase (CRTISO) and that low levels of lutein, an essential carotenoid for non-photochemical quenching, cause leaf variegation in z2 mutants. However, we found that the z2 mutant phenotype was completely suppressed by growth under continuous light (CL; permissive) conditions, with concentrations of chlorophyll, carotenoids and chloroplast proteins at normal levels in z2 mutants under CL. In addition, three types of reactive oxygen species (ROS; superoxide [O₂⁻], hydrogen peroxide [H₂O₂], and singlet oxygen [¹O₂]) accumulated to high levels in z2 mutants grown under short-day conditions (SD; alternate 10-h light/14-h dark; restrictive), but do not accumulate under CL conditions. However, the levels of lutein and zeaxanthin in z2 leaves were much lower than normal in both permissive CL and restrictive SD growth conditions, indicating that deficiency of these two carotenoids is not responsible for the leaf variegation phenotype. We found that the CRTISO substrate tetra-Cis-lycopene accumulated during the dark periods under SD, but not under CL conditions. Its accumulation was also positively correlated with ¹O₂ levels generated during the light period, which consequently altered the expression of ¹O₂-responsive and cell death-related genes in the variegated z2 leaves. Taking these results together, we propose that the z2 leaf variegation can be largely attributed to photoperiodic accumulation of tetra-cis-lycopene and generation of excessive ¹O₂ under natural day-night conditions.
22134847	Pantoea agglomerans YS19 is a rice endophytic bacterium characterized to form multicellular biofilm-like structures called symplasmata. Phenotypic distinctions between symplasmata-forming cells and planktonic cells are crucial for understanding YS19's survival strategies. In this study, a 43.1 kDa protein SPM43.1 was identified to show significant resistance to the aggregation effect caused by denaturing acidic conditions. MALDI-TOF analysis data indicated that it is a maltose-binding protein homolog while contains sequence homologous to the chaperone protein, ClpB. The purified SPM43.1 protein was detected to exhibit chaperone-like activities at acidic conditions, where its conformation transformed from an ordered to a globally less ordered structure as revealed by circular dichroism spectroscopy, showing a similar property to most chaperone proteins. The expression of SPM43.1 in YS19 is initiated when bacterial cells begin to aggregate, yet its amount in planktonic cells greatly exceeds that in symplasmata-forming cells, suggesting its crucial role to the survival of planktonic cells in experiencing environmental fluctuations. However, the bacterium prefers to form symplasmata, while not to express SPM43.1 proteins, for surviving the artificially set fluctuant (acid here) environments. This study provides valuable information on the life styles and survival strategies of microorganisms that forms multicellular aggregates at specific growth stages.
22135471
22135869	The glycaemic index (GI) concept ranks starchy foods according to the blood glucose responses following ingestion. When considering commonly consumed Sri Lankan meals, only a few can be categorised as low GI. However, a significant negative correlation between the GI of Sri Lankan meals and fibre content has been observed indicating the potential to reduce the GI of meals by incorporating naturally occurring sources of fibre. Thus, the objective of this study was to study the effect of increased edible quantities of fibre on the GI of rice meals consumed in Sri Lanka. Meal 1 consisted of rice with several meal accompaniments (lentil curry, boiled egg, coconut gravy and Centella asiatica (gotukola) leaves salad). Meal 2 contained similar constituents as meal 1 and a Lasia spinosa (kohila) rhizome salad. The composition of meal 3 was similar to meal 2 but contained Trichosanthes cucumerina (snake gourd) salad instead of Lasia spinosa salad. Meal 3 contained similar fibre contents as meal 1 and similar meal size as meal 2. The glycaemic indices of the three meals were determined with healthy individuals (n=10, age=20-30 yrs, BMI=24 +/- 3 kg/m2) using bread as the standard. Meals 1 and 3 contained total dietary fibre (TDF) contents of 15.2g. Meal 2 contained 16.3g TDF. The GI values of the three meals were 63 +/- 5, 57 +/- 5, 61 +/- 5 respectively and were not significantly different from one another (p>0.05). The GI of the rice mixed meal 2 was reduced by 9% when total edible dietary fibre content of the actual meal was increased by 7.2%. The study results show that the GI of rice mixed meals may be reduced by including naturally occurring sources of fibre with starchy staples while fulfilling daily dietary fibre requirement of an adult at low cost.
22136218	Plant roots are important organs to uptake soil water and nutrients, perceiving and transducing of soil water deficit signals to shoot. The current knowledge of drought stress transcriptomes in rice are mostly relying on comparative studies of diverse genetic background under drought. A more reliable approach is to use near-isogenic lines (NILs) with a common genetic background but contrasting levels of resistance to drought stress under initial exposure to water deficit. Here, we examined two pairs of NILs in IR64 background with contrasting drought tolerance. We obtained gene expression profile in roots of rice NILs under different levels of drought stress help to identify genes and mechanisms involved in drought stress. Global gene expression analysis showed that about 55% of genes differentially expressed in roots of rice in response to drought stress treatments. The number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) increased in NILs as the level of water deficits, increased from mild to severe condition, suggesting that more genes were affected by increasing drought stress. Gene onthology (GO) test and biological pathway analysis indicated that activated genes in the drought tolerant NILs IR77298-14-1-2-B-10 and IR77298-5-6-B-18 were mostly involved in secondary metabolism, amino acid metabolism, response to stimulus, defence response, transcription and signal transduction, and down-regulated genes were involved in photosynthesis and cell wall growth. We also observed gibberellic acid (GA) and auxin crosstalk modulating lateral root formation in the tolerant NILs. Transcriptome analysis on two pairs of NILs with a common genetic background (~97%) showed distinctive differences in gene expression profiles and could be effective to unravel genes involved in drought tolerance. In comparison with the moderately tolerant NIL IR77298-5-6-B-18 and other susceptible NILs, the tolerant NIL IR77298-14-1-2-B-10 showed a greater number of DEGs for cell growth, hormone biosynthesis, cellular transports, amino acid metabolism, signalling, transcription factors and carbohydrate metabolism in response to drought stress treatments. Thus, different mechanisms are achieving tolerance in the two tolerant lines.
22136261	Coronary heart disease (CHD) is highly prevalent amongst the South Asian communities in Britain. The reasons for this excess CHD risk are multifactorial, but in part relate to a susceptibility to diabetes mellitus - where the aberrant metabolism of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) and glucose are likely to underpin vascular disease in this population. Dietary intervention is an important and first line approach to manage increased CHD risk. However, there is limited information on the impact of the South Asian diet on CHD risk. The Diabetes Health, Residence & Metabolism in Asians (DHRMA) study is a blinded, randomised, placebo controlled trial that analyses the efficacy of reduced glycaemic index (GI) staples of the South Asian diet, in relation to cardio-metabolic risk factors that are commonly perturbed amongst South Asian populations - primarily glucose, fatty acid and lipoprotein metabolism and central adiposity. Using a 10-week dietary intervention study, 50 healthy South Asians will be randomised to receive either a DHRMA (reduced GI) supply of chapatti (bread), stone ground, high protein wheat flour and white basmati rice (high bran, unpolished) or commercially available (leading brand) versions chapatti wheat flour and basmati rice. Volunteers will be asked to complete a 75g oral glucose tolerance test at baseline and at 10-weeks follow-up, where blood metabolites and hormones, blood pressure and anthropometry will also be assessed in a standardised manner. It is anticipated that the information collected from this study help develop healthy diet options specific (but not exclusive) for South Asian ethnic communities. Trial registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN02839188.
22136599	Post-embryonic development depends on the activity of meristems in plants, and thus control of cell fate in the meristem is crucial to plant development and its architecture. In grasses such as rice and maize, the fate of reproductive meristems changes from indeterminate meristems, such as inflorescence and branch meristems, to determinate meristems, such as the spikelet meristem. Here we analyzed a recessive mutant of rice, aberrant spikelet and panicle1 (asp1), that showed pleiotropic phenotypes such as a disorganized branching pattern, aberrant spikelet morphology, and disarrangement of phyllotaxy. Close examination revealed that regulation of meristem fate was compromised in asp1: degeneration of the inflorescence meristem was delayed, transition from the branch meristem to the spikelet meristem was accelerated, and stem cell maintenance in both the branch meristem and the spikelet meristem was compromised. The genetic program was also disturbed in terms of spikelet development. Gene isolation revealed that ASP1 encodes a transcriptional co-repressor that is related to TOPLESS (TPL) in Arabidopsis and RAMOSA ENHANCER LOCUS2 (REL2) in maize. It is likely that the pleiotropic defects are associated with de-repression of multiple genes related to meristem function in the asp1 mutant. The asp1 mutant also showed de-repression of axillary bud growth and disturbed phyllotaxy in the vegetative phase, suggesting that the function of this gene is closely associated with auxin action. Consistent with these observations and the molecular function of Arabidopsis TPL, auxin signaling was also compromised in the rice asp1 mutant. Taken together, these results indicate that ASP1 regulates various aspects of developmental processes and physiological responses as a transcriptional co-repressor in rice.
22136623	Methylation of histone lysine residues plays an essential role in epigenetic regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes. Enzymes involved in establishment of the repressive H3K9 and H3K27 methylation marks have been previously characterized, but the deposition and function of H3K4 and H3K36 methylation remain uncharacterized in rice. Here, we report that rice SDG725 encodes a H3K36 methyltransferase, and its down-regulation causes wide-ranging defects, including dwarfism, shortened internodes, erect leaves and small seeds. These defects resemble the phenotypes previously described for some brassinosteroid-knockdown mutants. Consistently, transcriptome analyses revealed that SDG725 depletion results in down-regulation by more than two-fold of over 1000 genes, including D11, BRI1 and BU1, which are known to be involved in brassinosteroid biosynthesis or signaling pathways. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses showed that levels of H3K36me2/3 are reduced in chromatin at some regions of these brassinosteroid-related genes in SDG725 knockdown plants, and that SDG725 protein is able to directly bind to these target genes. Taken together, our data indicate that SDG725-mediated H3K36 methylation modulates brassinosteroid-related gene expression, playing an important role in rice plant growth and development.
22136664	Plant growth and crop production are highly reduced by adverse environmental conditions and rice is particularly sensitive to abiotic stresses. Plants have developed a number of different mechanisms to respond and try to adapt to abiotic stress. Plant response to stress such as drought, cold, and high salinity, implies rapid and coordinated changes at transcriptional level of entire gene networks. During the last decade many transcription factors, belonging to different families, have been shown to act as positive or negative regulators of stress responsive genes, thus playing an extremely important role in stress signaling. More recently, epigenetic mechanisms have been also involved in the regulation of the stress responsive genes. In this review, we have performed a comprehensive analysis of the rice transcription factors reported so far as being involved in abiotic stress responses. The impact of abiotic stresses on epigenomes is also addressed. Finally, we update the connections made so far between DNA-binding transcription factors (TFs), and epigenetic mechanisms (DNA methylation and histones methylation or acetylation) emphasizing an integrative view of transcription regulation.
22137606	Water status is the main factor affecting rice production. In order to understand rice strategies in response to drought condition in the field, the drought-responsive mechanisms at the physiological and molecular levels were studied in two rice genotypes with contrasting susceptibility to drought stress at reproductive stage. After 20 d of drought treatment, the osmotic potential of leaves reduced 78% and 8% in drought susceptible rice cultivar Zhenshan97B and tolerant rice cultivar IRAT109, respectively. The panicle lengths had no obvious changes in drought stressed Zhenshan97B and IRAT109, suggesting that drought stress impose less effect on assimilate translocation from leaf to vegetative growth of panicles. IRAT109 showed more extensive deeper root growth that could be considered a second line of defense against drought stress. The C(i)/C(a) ratio exhibited enhancement over reduction of g(s) in both cultivars, reflecting the non-stomatal limitation to photosynthesis occurred during drought stress. Orthophosphate dikinase, glycine dehydrogenase, ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), glycine hydroxymethyltransferase and ATP synthase were down-regulated for Zhenshan97B in response to drought stress, suggesting the reduction of capacity of carbon assimilation in this rice cultivar. In drought-stressed IRAT109, transketolase, Rubisco were down-regulated, however, Rubisco activase and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase, which might alleviate the damage on Rubisco by drought stress, were up-regulated. The increased abundances of chloroplastic superoxide dismutase [Cu-Zn] and dehydroascorbate reductase might provide antioxidant protection for IRAT109 against damage by dehydration.
22137607	Suspension cultured cells of a blast-resistant rice genotype (Oryza sativa L. cv. Gigante Vercelli) were treated with cell wall hydrolysates prepared from the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae. As a consequence, a complex pattern of phenylalanine ammonia lyase time course specific activity levels was evident. Ion-exchange chromatographic fractionation of crude extracts suggested that the early (6 h) and the late (48-72 h after elicitation) increase of activity relied upon the sequential induction of two different isoenzymes. The relative expression levels of 11 genes putatively coding for a phenylalanine ammonia lyase were measured by semi-quantitative capillary gel electrophoresis of RT-PCR products. Two genes were indeed found to be induced by treatments with the hydrolysate, and data were validated by real-time PCR. Conversely, only the early-responsive enzyme form was observed following elicitation in a blast-sensitive rice genotype (cv. Vialone nano). Therefore, the late-responsive isoform may represent a candidate gene to select for decreased sensitivity to blast.
22138149	Endophyte infected and uninfected seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were subjected to five different levels of Na(2)CO(3) for 2 weeks. Under both Na(2)CO(3) stress as well as no stress, endophyte-infected plants were higher for above-ground dry weight and shoot length, but lower for root length compared to non-infected controls, and there was no significant difference for below-ground dry weight. Chlorophylls and carotenoid contents, net photosynetic rate, transpiration rate, catalase and peroxidase activities increased, but malondialdehyde content declined in the infected plants compared to non-infected controls under Na(2)CO(3) stress. Compared to non-infected controls, water use efficiency, stomatal conductance, chlorophyll fluorescence parameters (F(v)/F(m), F(v)/F(o)) and superoxide dismutase activity in infected plants increased under high concentrations of Na(2)CO(3) while there was no significant difference under low concentrations of Na(2)CO(3). Endophyte infection was concluded to be beneficial to the growth and antioxidative mechanisms in Oryza sativa under Na(2)CO(3) stress.
22138186	A single-chain variable fragment (ScFv) complementary DNA (cDNA) library against fenitrothion was constructed, and ScFvs specific for fenitrothion were selected by ribosome display from the library. After three rounds of ribosome display, the ScFv genes were cloned into Escherichia coli for expression. The expressed ScFvs of 160 clones were analyzed by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Of these, 40 clones produced antibodies with relatively high activity against fenitrothion, and 3 were selected for Biacore and ELISA analysis. These 3 antibodies-ScFv-AF50, ScFv-AF93, and ScFv-AF132-had IC(50) values of 1.6, 3.4, and 2.2 ng/ml, respectively. Cross-reactivity with other organophosphorus (OP) pesticides was below 0.1% except for parathion-methyl (≤2.8%). The IC(50) values and cross-reactivity were lower than achieved previously with polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies against fenitrothion. The equilibrium dissociation constant (K(D)) values determined by Biacore analysis were 4.56×10(-10)M for ScFv-AF50, 1.42×10(-9)M for ScFv-AF93, and 2.66×10(-10)M for ScFv-AF132. These results demonstrate that the ribosome display has great potential in selection of ScFvs against pesticides. Recoveries of fenitrothion from fortified rice and cucumber were in the range 80.6 to 108%, indicating that the ELISAs with the isolated ScFvs can accurately determine fenitrothion in food samples after the simple and rapid extraction procedure.
22138592	One way to optimize methane production in anaerobic digestion plants is to substitute ligno-cellulosic by-products for crops traditionally used as energy sources. However, using these by-products requires introduction of a pre-treatment system to minimize energy input and maximize energy output for an improved net energy equation. In this study, four agricultural byproducts (wheat, barley, rice straw and maize stalks) underwent various mechanical and thermal treatments prior to anaerobic digestion including particle size reduction to 5.0, 2.0, 0.5, and 0.2 cm and heat application to 90 °C and 120 °C. Mechanical pre-treatment increased byproduct methane yields more than 80%; thermal pre-treatment improved yields more than 60% for wheat and barley straw. Pre-treating wheat straw improved methane yields most, regardless of whether the method was thermal or mechanical. An electric net energy balance was also completed to analyze the feasibility of the pre-treatments according to input and output of energy.
22138690	A high-density haplotype map recently enabled a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in a population of indica subspecies of Chinese rice landraces. Here we extend this methodology to a larger and more diverse sample of 950 worldwide rice varieties, including the Oryza sativa indica and Oryza sativa japonica subspecies, to perform an additional GWAS. We identified a total of 32 new loci associated with flowering time and with ten grain-related traits, indicating that the larger sample increased the power to detect trait-associated variants using GWAS. To characterize various alleles and complex genetic variation, we developed an analytical framework for haplotype-based de novo assembly of the low-coverage sequencing data in rice. We identified candidate genes for 18 associated loci through detailed annotation. This study shows that the integrated approach of sequence-based GWAS and functional genome annotation has the potential to match complex traits to their causal polymorphisms in rice.
22138855	We report that phytochrome B (phyB) mutants exhibit improved drought tolerance compared to wild type (WT) rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). To understand the underlying mechanism by which phyB regulates drought tolerance, we analyzed root growth and water loss from the leaves of phyB mutants. The root system showed no significant difference between the phyB mutants and WT, suggesting that improved drought tolerance has little relation to root growth. However, phyB mutants exhibited reduced total leaf area per plant, which was probably due to a reduction in the total number of cells per leaf caused by enhanced expression of Orysa;KRP1 and Orysa;KRP4 (encoding inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinase complex activity) in the phyB mutants. In addition, the developed leaves of phyB mutants displayed larger epidermal cells than WT leaves, resulting in reduced stomatal density. phyB deficiency promoted the expression of both putative ERECTA family genes and EXPANSIN family genes involved in cell expansion in leaves, thus causing greater epidermal cell expansion in the phyB mutants. Reduced stomatal density resulted in reduced transpiration per unit leaf area in the phyB mutants. Considering all these findings, we propose that phyB deficiency causes both reduced total leaf area and reduced transpiration per unit leaf area, which explains the reduced water loss and improved drought tolerance of phyB mutants.
22139140	In indica rice, the HongLian (HL)-type combination of cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and fertility restoration (Rf) is widely used for the production of commercial hybrid seeds in China, Laos, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian countries. Generally, any member of the gametophytic fertility restoration system, 50% of the pollen in hybrid F(1) plants displays recovered sterility. In this study, however, a HL-type hybrid variety named HongLian You6 had approximately 75% normal (viable) pollen rather than the expected 50%. To resolve this discrepancy, several fertility segregation populations, including F(2) and BC(1)F(1) derived from the HL-CMS line Yuetai A crossed with the restorer line 9311, were constructed and subjected to genetic analysis. A gametophytic restoration model was discovered to involve two non-allelic nuclear restorer genes, Rf5 and Rf6. The Rf5 had been previously identified using a positional clone strategy. The Rf6 gene represents a new restorer gene locus, which was mapped to the short arm of chromosome 8. The hybrid F(1) plants containing one restorer gene, either Rf5 or Rf6, displayed 50% normal pollen grains with I(2)-KI solution; however, those with both Rf5 and Rf6 displayed 75% normal pollens. We also established that the hybrid F(1) plants including both non-allelic restorer genes exhibited an increased stable seed setting when subjected to stress versus the F(1) plants with only one restorer gene. Finally, we discuss the breeding scheme for the plant gametophytic CMS/Rf system.
22139163	The proteins in the fatty-acid synthesis pathway in bacteria have significant potential as targets for the development of antibacterial agents. An essential elongation step in fatty-acid synthesis is performed by β-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein synthase I (FabB). The organism Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes a destructive bacterial blight disease of rice. The XoFabB protein from Xoo was expressed, purified and crystallized for the three-dimensional structure determination that is essential for the development of specific inhibitors of the enzyme. An XoFabB crystal diffracted to 3.0 Å resolution and belonged to the tetragonal space group P4(1), with unit-cell parameters a = b = 82.2, c = 233.2 Å. Assuming that the crystallographic structure contains four molecules in the asymmetric unit, the corresponding V(M) would be 2.18 Å(3) Da(-1) and the solvent content would be 43.5%. The initial structure was determined by the MOLREP program with an R factor of 44.0% and does contain four monomers in the asymmetric unit.
22139332	Straighthead is a physiological disorder of rice (Oryza sativa L.) that results in sterile florets with distorted lemma and palea, and the panicles or heads may not form at all in extreme cases. Heads remain upright at maturity, hence the name 'straighthead'. The diseased panicles may not emerge from the flag leaf sheath when the disease is severe. Straighthead disease in rice results in poorly developed panicles and significant yield loss. Although other soil physicochemical factors involved, arsenic contamination in soil has also been reported to be closely associated with straighthead of rice. Monosodium methanearsonate has been a popular herbicide in cotton production in the USA, which has shown to cause injuries in rice that are similar to straighthead. Since toxicity of inorganic arsenic (iAs) is higher than other forms of arsenic, it may produce a more severe straighthead disorder in rice. The use of iAs-rich groundwater for irrigation, and the increase of iAs concentrations in agricultural soil in arsenic epidemic South and South-East Asia may cause a high incidence of straighthead in rice, resulting in a threat to sustainable rice production in this region.
22139936	Chloroplast RNA metabolism is controlled and excecuted by hundreds of nuclear-encoded, chloroplast-localized RNA binding proteins. Contrary to the nucleo-cytosolic compartment or bacteria, there is little evidence for non-coding RNAs that play a role as riboregulators of chloroplasts. We mined deep-sequencing datasets to identify short (16-28 nt) RNAs in the chloroplast genome and found 50 abundant small RNAs (sRNAs) represented by multiple, in some cases, thousands of sequencing reads, whereas reads are in general absent from the surrounding sequence space. Other than sRNAs representing the most highly abundant mRNAs, tRNAs and rRNAs, most sRNAs are located in non-coding regions and many are found a short distance upstream of start codons. By transcript end mapping we show that the 5' and 3' termini of chloroplast RNAs coincide with the ends of sRNAs. Sequences of sRNAs identified in Arabidopsis are conserved between different angiosperm species and in several cases, we identified putative orthologs in rice deep sequencing datasets. Recently, it was suggested that small chloroplast RNA fragments could result from the protective action of pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins against exonucleases, i.e. footprints of RNA binding proteins. Our data support this scenario on a transcriptome-wide level and suggest that a large number of sRNAs are in fact remnants of PPR protein targets.
22140118	In plants, microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate their mRNA targets by precisely guiding cleavages between the 10th and 11th nucleotides in the complementary regions. High-throughput sequencing-based methods, such as PARE or degradome profiling coupled with a computational analysis of the sequencing data, have recently been developed for identifying miRNA targets on a genome-wide scale. The existing algorithms limit the number of mismatches between a miRNA and its targets and strictly do not allow a mismatch or G:U Wobble pair at the position 10 or 11. However, evidences from recent studies suggest that cleavable targets with more mismatches exist indicating that a relaxed criterion can find additional miRNA targets. In order to identify targets including the ones with weak complementarities from degradome data, we developed a computational method called SeqTar that allows more mismatches and critically mismatch or G:U pair at the position 10 or 11. Precisely, two statistics were introduced in SeqTar, one to measure the alignment between miRNA and its target and the other to quantify the abundance of reads at the center of the miRNA complementary site. By applying SeqTar to publicly available degradome data sets from Arabidopsis and rice, we identified a substantial number of novel targets for conserved and non-conserved miRNAs in addition to the reported ones. Furthermore, using RLM 5'-RACE assay, we experimentally verified 12 of the novel miRNA targets (6 each in Arabidopsis and rice), of which some have more than 4 mismatches and have mismatches or G:U pairs at the position 10 or 11 in the miRNA complementary sites. Thus, SeqTar is an effective method for identifying miRNA targets in plants using degradome data sets.
22140509	Plant cytochromes P450 are involved in a wide range of biosynthetic reactions and play various roles in plant development. However, little is known about the biological functions of the subfamily CYP96 in plants. Here, we report a novel semi-dwarf rice mutant, in which a single copy of transposon dissociator (Ds) was inserted into the gene OsCYP96B4 (Oryza sativa Cytochrome P450 96B4). The mutant exhibits the defects in cell elongation and pollen germination, which can be complemented by the wild type OsCYP96B4 and be rescued by remobilization of the Ds element with the presence of the transposase Activator (Ac). Transgenic plants harboring OsCYP96B4 double-stranded RNA interference construct mimicked the mutant phenotype. The oscyp96b4 mutant phenotype could not be rescued by all the tested phytohormones and it was found that OsCYP96B4 reduced plant height in a transcript dosage dependent manner. Heterologous expression of OsCYP96B4 in Schizosaccharomyces pombe resulted in missegregation and wider cells. Further investigation showed that the mutant exhibited the defects in the metabolism of some lipid molecular species when compared with the wild type. The oscyp96b4 mutant is a novel rice semi-dwarf mutant. Our data suggest that OsCYP96B4 might be involved in lipid metabolism and regulate cell elongation.
22142166	Rho family small GTPases are involved in diverse signaling processes including immunity, growth, and development. The activity of Rho GTPases is regulated by cycling between guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-bound inactive and guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-bound active forms, in which guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) predominantly function to promote activation of the GTPases. In animals, most Rho GEFs possess a Dbl (diffuse B-cell lymphoma) homology (DH) domain which functions as a GEF-catalytic domain. However, no proteins with the DH domain have been identified in plants so far. Instead, plant-specific Rho GEFs with the PRONE domain responsible for GEF activity have been found to constitute a large family in plants. In this study, we found rice homologs of human SWAP70, Oryza sativa (Os) SWAP70A and SWAP70B, containing the DH domain. OsSWAP70A interacted with rice Rho GTPase OsRac1, an important signaling factor for immune responses. The DH domain of OsSWAP70A exhibited the GEF-catalytic activity toward OsRac1 as found in animal Rho GEFs, indicating that plants have the functional DH domains. Transient expression of OsSWAP70A enhanced OsRac1-mediated production of reactive oxygen species in planta. Reduction of OsSWAP70A and OsSWAP70B mRNA levels by RNA interference resulted in the suppression of chitin elicitor-induced defense gene expression and ROS production. Thus, it is likely that OsSWAP70 regulates immune responses through activation of OsRac1.
22142234	• Inorganic arsenic (As(i)) in rice (Oryza sativa) grains is a possible threat to human health, with risk being strongly linked to total dietary rice consumption and consumed rice As(i) content. This study aimed to identify the range and stability of genetic variation in grain arsenic (As) in rice. • Six field trials were conducted (one each in Bangladesh and China, two in Arkansas, USA over 2 yr, and two in Texas, USA comparing flooded and nonflood treatments) on a large number of common rice cultivars (c. 300) representing genetic diversity among international rice cultivars. • Within each field there was a 3-34 fold range in grain As concentration which varied between rice subpopulations. Importantly, As(i) correlated strongly with total As among a subset of 40 cultivars harvested in Bangladesh and China. • Genetic variation at all field sites was a large determining factor for grain As concentration, indicating that cultivars low in grain As could be developed through breeding. The temperate japonicas exhibited lower grain As compared with other subpopulations. Effects for year, location and flooding management were also statistically significant, suggesting that breeding strategies must take into account environmental factors.
22142475	RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RDRs) from fungi, plants and some invertebrate animals play fundamental roles in antiviral defense. Here, we investigated the role of RDR6 in the defense of economically important rice plants against a negative-strand RNA virus (Rice stripe virus, RSV) that causes enormous crop damage. In three independent transgenic lines (OsRDR6AS line A, B and C) in which OsRDR6 transcription levels were reduced by 70-80% through antisense silencing, the infection and disease symptoms of RSV were shown to be significantly enhanced. The hypersusceptibilities of the OsRDR6AS plants were attributed not to enhanced insect infestation but to enhanced virus infection. The rise in symptoms was associated with the increased accumulation of RSV genomic RNA in the OsRDR6AS plants. The deep sequencing data showed reduced RSV-derived siRNA accumulation in the OsRDR6AS plants compared with the wild type plants. This is the first report of the antiviral role of a RDR in a monocot crop plant in the defense against a negative-strand RNA virus and significantly expands upon the current knowledge of the antiviral roles of RDRs in the defense against different types of viral genomes in numerous groups of plants.
22142504	In this study, fermentation liquor from rice straw was used to produce bioflocculants during a dry fermentation process. Acetic acid and butyric acid were the predominant VFAs during the process. A compound bioflocculant producing inoculum, F(+) was inoculated into compound media in which fermentation liquor and conventional bioflocculants medium at different ratios. The maximum flocculation activity, 92.45% was achieved when 100-day fermentation liquor and conventional bioflocculants medium were mixed at an equal ratio. Furthermore, 454-pyrosequencing technology was used to measure bacterial diversity on the 25th day of operation, which was a period of rapid VFA accumulating. A total of 2110 sequences were obtained, and were found to be affiliated with 8 phylogenetic groups, including Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Chloroflexi, Spirochaetes and Synergistetes. Notably, Firmicutes (92.3%) was the dominant microbial population, followed by Actinobacteria (2.37%) and Proteobacteria (1.04%).
22142601	In the traditional Danish Christmas dessert, ris à l'amande, one whole almond is hidden. The person who is lucky to find it in his portion is rewarded with a small gift, usually more sweets. We want to find out whether the hidden almond could be found by use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) or conventional X-ray examinations. We made three portions of ris à l'amande containing respectively three, one and zero whole almonds. All three portions were X-rayed and scanned by use of both MRI and CT, and three medical doctors from the neuroradiology department counted the almonds. All the three participants where blinded. We found that conventional X-ray was unsuitable for the purpose of finding whole almonds. In using either CT or MRI though, the hidden almonds were found. In a comparison between CT and MRI, the preferred modality is MRI, as diagnostic imaging confidence is higher with MRI as with CT. Ultrasound is another modality not tested, but potentially an excellent method for detecting almonds in ris à l'amande.
2214293	Four male Japanese were fed a semisynthetic diet including egg and soy powder as protein source for seven days (Basal-diet period), and in the following seven days 200 g of polished rice, wheat flour and buckwheat flour added at the expense of part of the corn starch and sugar in the basal diets (Test-diet period). Urine and feces were collected throughout both periods and the contents of nitrogen, fat and energy in these excreta were determined. Digestibility of protein (N), fat and carbohydrate (by difference) was calculated. The protein digestibilities of the polished rice (in the form of cooked grains), wheat flour (in the form of cooked powder) and buckwheat flour were 89.6 +/- 5.0%, 93.4 +/- 2.9% and 85.1 +/- 2.5%, respectively. The fat digestibilities of the polished rice, wheat flour and buckwheat flour were 93.6 +/- 1.8%, 70.8 +/- 13.5% and 103.1 +/- 8.4%, respectively showing relatively large variation (This results may be caused by an errors in measurement). The carbohydrate digestibility was close to 100%. The net energy availabilities of the polished rice, wheat flour and buckwheat flour were 100.6 +/- 1.4%, 96.5 +/- 1.1% and 96.0 +/- 1.1%, respectively.
22143275	The aim of this work was to identify plant resistance genes to the sorghum anthracnose fungus Colletotrichum sublineolum. cDNA-AFLP transcript profiling on two contrasting sorghum genotypes inoculated with C. sublineolum generated about 3,000 informative fragments. In a final set of 126 sequenced genes, 15 were identified as biotic stress related. Seven of the plant-derived genes were selected for functional analysis using a Brome mosaic virus-based virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) system followed by fungal inoculation and quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The candidate set comprised genes encoding resistance proteins (Cs1A, Cs2A), a lipid transfer protein (SbLTP1), a zinc finger-like transcription factor (SbZnTF1), a rice defensin-like homolog (SbDEFL1), a cell death related protein (SbCDL1), and an unknown gene harboring a casein kinase 2-like domain (SbCK2). Our results demonstrate that down-regulation of Cs1A, Cs2A, SbLTP1, SbZnF1 and SbCD1 via VIGS, significantly compromised the resistance response while milder effects were observed with SbDEFL1 and SbCK2. Expanded genome analysis revealed that Cs1A and Cs2A genes are located in two different loci on chromosome 9 closely linked with duplicated genes Cs1B and Cs2B, respectively. The nucleotide binding-leucine rich repeat (NB-LRR) encoding Cs gene sequence information is presently employed in regional breeding programs.
22143418	Heavy metal contamination of soils is widespread and induces a long-term risk to ecosystem health. This research focuses on the heavy metal contamination, transfer values and risk assessment in the Kočani Field plant system (Republic of Macedonia). To identify the heavy metal concentrations in Kočani crops (rice and maize), the geochemical analysis was performed by inductive coupled plasma mass spectrometer and thereupon the transfer factor (TF) and estimated daily intake amount values were calculated. The highest As, Cd, Mo, Pb and Zn values were determined in the rice samples grown in the paddy fields near the Zletovska River. The highest Pb and Mo concentrations measured in the maize samples were from the maize fields near the Zletovska River and Ciflik city. High TF values for Mo, Zn, Cd and Cu revealed a strong accumulation of Mo, Zn and Cd by rice and Mo and Zn by maize crops. The results of the estimated daily intake showed that the regular consumption of rice and maize crops containing the highest Cd, Mo, Pb and Zn concentrations could pose a serious threat to human health, because the daily intake of Cd, Mo, Pb and Zn for crops grown in the fields around the Zletovska River exceeded the recommended provisional tolerable daily intake values. Taking into account the results, the area around Zletovska River is considered as the most anthropogenically impacted part of Kočani Field.
22143778	Emerging data indicate that rice consumption may lead to potentially harmful arsenic exposure. However, few human data are available, and virtually none exist for vulnerable periods such as pregnancy. Here we document a positive association between rice consumption and urinary arsenic excretion, a biomarker of recent arsenic exposure, in 229 pregnant women. At a 6-mo prenatal visit, we collected a urine sample and 3-d dietary record for water, fish/seafood, and rice. We also tested women's home tap water for arsenic, which we combined with tap water consumption to estimate arsenic exposure through water. Women who reported rice intake (n = 73) consumed a median of 28.3 g/d, which is ∼0.5 cup of cooked rice each day. In general linear models adjusted for age and urinary dilution, both rice consumption (g, dry mass/d) and arsenic exposure through water (μg/d) were significantly associated with natural log-transformed total urinary arsenic (βrice = 0.009, βwater = 0.028, both P < 0.0001), as well as inorganic arsenic, monomethylarsonic acid, and dimethylarsinic acid (each P < 0.005). Based on total arsenic, consumption of 0.56 cup/d of cooked rice was comparable to drinking 1 L/d of 10 μg As/L water, the current US maximum contaminant limit. US rice consumption varies, averaging ∼0.5 cup/d, with Asian Americans consuming an average of >2 cups/d. Rice arsenic content and speciation also vary, with some strains predominated by dimethylarsinic acid, particularly those grown in the United States. Our findings along with others indicate that rice consumption should be considered when designing arsenic reduction strategies in the United States.
22144043	It is difficult to predict rice bread quality only from the amylose content (AC) or dough characteristics of new lines produced by rice breeding programmes. This study investigated the AC relative to bread baking quality of rice varieties developed in Korea, and identified specific characteristics that contribute to rice bread quality. Manmibyeo, Jinsumi, Seolgaeng and Hanareumbyeo were classified as low AC, YR24088 Acp9, Suweon517, Chenmaai and Goamibyeo as intermediate AC and Milyang261 as high AC. Suweon517, Milyang261 and Manmibyeo had a high water absorption index (WAI), while Goamibyeo, YR24088 Acp9, Jinsumi, Seolgaeng, Hanareumbyeo and Chenmaai had a low WAI. The gelatinisation enthalpy of flour varied from 9.2 J g(-1) in Milyang261 to 14.8 J g(-1) in YR24088 Acp9. After 7 days of storage the rate of flour retrogradation and crumb firmness were weakly correlated, with the exception of Jinsumi. Bread volumes of Jinsumi, Chenmaai, YR24088 Acp9 and Goamibyeo were comparable to that of wheat flour, but the rest were unsuited to bread making because of their low volume and hard crumb texture. Based on volume, texture and crumb firmness ratio, Chenmaai and Goamibyeo were the most appropriate varieties for making bread. An intermediate AC and low WAI were the primary indicators of rice bread flour quality.
22144071	Monascus-fermented products have featured in Chinese cuisine for thousands of years and are widely used as food colourants and dietary materials in many Asian countries. Rice and dioscorea fermented with Monascus purpureus NTU 568 have health-promoting attributes in vitro and in vivo. The aim of this study was to investigate the immunomodulatory and antioxidant effects of polysaccharides from red mould rice (RMRP) and red mould dioscorea (RMDP) in Raw 264.7 cells. The results showed the antioxidant capabilities (including scavenging, chelating, inhibition of lipid peroxidation, and reducing power) of RMRP and RMDP at a concentration of 10 mg mL(-1). RMRP and RMDP also stimulated cell proliferation, nitric oxide production, phagocytosis and cytokine production (including IL1-β, IL-6 and TNF-α) in Raw 264.7 cells. These findings demonstrate that RMRP and RMDP have antioxidant and immunomodulation potential to be developed as novel dietary supplements.
22145582	To simulate expected future global warming, hexagonal arrays of infrared heaters have previously been used to warm open-field canopies of upland crops such as wheat. Through the use of concrete-anchored posts, improved software, overhead wires, extensive grounding, and monitoring with a thermal camera, the technology was safely and reliably extended to paddy rice fields. The system maintained canopy temperature increases within 0.5°C of daytime and nighttime set-point differences of 1.3 and 2.7°C 67% of the time.
22145600	A high-amylose rice with 64.8% amylose content (AC) was developed by transgenic inhibition of two isoforms of starch branching enzyme (SBE), SBEI and SBEIIb, in an indica rice cultivar. The expression of SBEI and SBEIIb was completely inhibited in the transgenic line, whereas the expression of granule-bound starch synthase was normal. Compared with wild-type rice, drastic reductions in both SBEs in the transgenic rice increased apparent AC in flour from 27.2% to 64.8%, resistant starch (RS) content from 0% to 14.6% and total dietary fibre (TDF) from 6.8% to 15.2%. Elevated AC increased the proportion of long unit chains in amylopectin and increased onset gelatinization temperature and resistance to alkaline digestion; however, kernel weight was decreased. A rat feeding trial indicated that consumption of high-amylose rice decreased body weight gain significantly (P < 0.01); increased faecal mass, faecal moisture and short-chain fatty acids; and lowered the faecal pH. An acute oral rice tolerance test revealed that the high-amylose rice had a positive effect on lowering the blood glucose response in diabetic Zucker fatty rats. This novel rice with its high AC, RS and TDF offers potential benefits for its use in foods and in industrial applications.
22145928	This paper provides an estimate of the furan content of Belgian foods. The objective of the study was to achieve the best food chain coverage with a restricted number of samples (n = 496). The geographic distribution, different market chains and labels, and consumption frequencies were taken into account in the construction of the sampling plan. Weighting factors such as contamination levels, consumption frequency and the diversity of food items were applied to set up the model. The very low detection capabilities (CC(β)) of the analytical methods used (sub-ppb) allowed reporting of 78.2% of the overall dataset above CC(β) and, in particular, 96.7% for the baby food category. The highest furan levels were found in powdered roasted bean coffee (1912 µg kg(-1)) with a mean of 756 µg kg(-1) for this category. Prepared meat, pasta and rice, breakfast cereals, soups, and baby food also showed high mean furan contents ranging from 16 to 43 µg kg(-1). Comparisons with contamination surveys carried out in other countries pointed out differences for the same food group and therefore contamination levels are related to the geographical origin of food items.
22145990	Adaptation of microorganisms to the environment is a central theme in microbial ecology. The objective of this study was to investigate the response of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) to a soil medium shift. We employed two rice field soils collected from Beijing and Hangzhou, China. These soils contained distinct AOB communities dominated by Nitrosomonas in Beijing rice soil and Nitrosospira in Hangzhou rice soil. Three mixtures were generated by mixing equal quantities of Beijing soil and Hangzhou soil (BH), Beijing soil with sterilized Hangzhou soil (BSH), and Hangzhou soil with sterilized Beijing soil (HSB). Pure and mixed soils were permanently flooded, and the surface-layer soil where ammonia oxidation occurred was collected to determine the response of AOB and AOA to the soil medium shift. AOB populations increased during the incubation, and the rates were initially faster in Beijing soil than in Hangzhou soil. Nitrosospira (cluster 3a) and Nitrosomonas (communis cluster) increased with time in correspondence with ammonia oxidation in the Hangzhou and Beijing soils, respectively. The 'BH' mixture exhibited a shift from Nitrosomonas at day 0 to Nitrosospira at days 21 and 60 when ammonia oxidation became most active. In 'HSB' and 'BSH' mixtures, Nitrosospira showed greater stimulation than Nitrosomonas, both with and without N amendment. These results suggest that Nitrosospira spp. were better adapted to soil environment shifts than Nitrosomonas. Analysis of the AOA community revealed that the composition of AOA community was not responsive to the soil environment shifts or to nitrogen amendment.
22146687	The bacterial population in several Philippine fermented food preparations was assessed by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) of the 16S rRNA gene (16S rDNA). Genomic DNA was isolated directly from alamang (fermented shrimp paste), burong isda (fermented fish and rice), burong hipon (fermented shrimp and rice), burong mustasa (fermented mustard leaves), tuba (sugar cane wine), suka (vinegar) and sinamak (spiced vinegar) using one of two protocols, namely - MoBio DNA Extraction Kit procedure and a cetyltrimethylammonium bromide-based method. Samples recalcitrant to both methods underwent enrichment in three culture broths prior to DNA isolation. Isolated DNA was amplified using nested primer pairs targeting the bacterial 16S rDNA. PCR products were subjected to DGGE to elucidate the bacterial diversity in each fermented food. 16S rDNA sequence analyses revealed that lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and acetic acid bacteria (AAB) were dominant in the food samples. The LAB identified were Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus panis, Lactobacillus pontis and Weissella cibaria. Identified AAB were Acetobacter pomorum, Acetobacter ghanensis, Acetobacter orientalis, and Acetobacter pasteurianus. Among these, L. fermentum, L. plantarum and W. cibaria are established probiotic bacteria, while L. panis and L. pontis are potential probiotic bacteria. This finding would increase the appeal and significance of local fermented foods to consumers. Furthermore, the majority of the identified bacteria in the study have not been reported before in culture-dependent studies of similar food preparations. As such, some of the bacterial 16S rDNA obtained were cloned to have an initial partial bacterial 16S rDNA library for Philippine fermented foods.
22146707	Enzymatic modification of pulp is receiving increasing interest for energy reduction at the refining step of the paper-making process. In this study, the production of a multi-fiber modifying enzyme from Mamillisphaeria sp. BCC8893 was optimized in submerged fermentation using a response-surface methodology. Maximal production was obtained in a complex medium comprising wheat bran, soybean, and rice bran supplemented with yeast extract at pH 6.0 and a harvest time of 7 d, resulting in 9.2 IU/mL of carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase), 14.9 IU/mL of filter paper activity (FPase), and 242.7 IU/mL of xylanase. Treatment of old corrugated container pulp at 0.2-0.3 IU of CMCase/g of pulp led to reductions in refining energy of 8.5-14.8%. The major physical properties were retained, including tensile and compression strength. Proteomic analysis showed that the enzyme was a complex composite of endo-glucanases, cellobiohydrolases, beta-1,4-xylanases, and beta-glucanases belonging to various glycosyl hydrolase families, suggestive of cooperative enzyme action in fiber modification, providing the basis for refining efficiency.
22146717	Recently we reported that rice salicylic acid (SA) glucosyltransferase (OsSGT) is active toward 12-hydroxyjasmonic acid (tuberonic acid, TA) and that OsSGT gene expression is induced by wounding stress. Here we report that tobacco SA glucosyltransferase (NtSGT), which is thought to be an ortholog of OsSGT, is also active toward TA. Although NtSGT expression is known to be induced by biotrophic stress, it was also induced by wounding stress in the same manner as OsSGT. These results indicate that this glucosyltransferase is important not only in biotrophic stress but also for wounding stress. It was found that this enzyme is dually functional, with activity both toward TA and SA.
22146734	Boron is an essential nutrient for plants, but it is toxic in excess. Transgenic rice plants expressing an Arabidopsis thaliana borate efflux transporter gene, AtBOR4, at a low level exhibited increased tolerance to excess boron. Those lines with high levels of expression exhibited reduced growth. These findings suggest a potential of the borate transporter BOR4 for the generation of high-boron tolerant rice.
22146841	To validate a disease-specific scale to measure the impact of symptoms of bladder pain syndrome/interstitial cystitis (BPS/IC), a condition that affects up to 6.5% of U.S. women. Participants were drawn from the RAND Interstitial Cystitis Epidemiology (RICE) Study, a telephone probability survey of 146,231 US households. Women who met RICE BPS/IC symptom criteria (n = 3,397) completed the 6-item RAND Bladder Symptom Impact scale (RICE BSI-6). The RICE BSI-6 was adapted from a scale used to assess the impact of diabetes on life and sexuality and modified based on expert input on face validity and focus group work; items specific to diabetic symptoms were eliminated. Validated scales of symptom severity, mental- and physical-health-related quality of life (QoL), depression, coping, and perceived control were used to assess convergent validity. The RICE BSI-6 (α = 0.92) was significantly related to greater symptom severity, worse general mental- and physical-health-related QoL, more severe depression symptoms, and lower perceived control over life in general and over BPS/IC symptoms (P values < .05). It was also associated with less use of distancing coping (P < .05). The RICE BSI-6 shows excellent internal consistency and strong convergent validity. It can be used to examine the effects of psychosocial and treatment interventions on QoL among women with BPS/IC.
22147105	Rice bran (RB) and de-oiled rice bran (DRB) have been treated and used as the carbon source in acetone-butanol-ethanol (ABE) production using Clostridium saccharoperbutylacetonicum N1-4. The results showed that pretreated DRB produced more ABE than pretreated RB. Dilute sulfuric acid was the most suitable treatment method among the various pretreatment methods that were applied. The highest ABE obtained was 12.13 g/L, including 7.72 g/L of biobutanol, from sulfuric acid. The enzymatic hydrolysate of DRB (ESADRB), when treated with XAD-4 resin, resulted in an ABE productivity and yield of 0.1 g/L h and 0.44 g/g, respectively. The results also showed that the choice of pretreatment method for RB and DRB is an important factor in butanol production.
22147467	The present study was conducted to 1) identify the natural source of feed contamination by zearalenone (ZEN), which was suspected to have caused persistently increased urinary ZEN concentrations in one of our experimental cattle herds, and 2) evaluate the effects of intervention against this source of contamination. As an experimental model, a fattening Japanese Black cattle herd showing persistently increased urinary ZEN concentrations was identified. Urinary ZEN concentrations of cows fed with new rice straw (experimental group, n = 6) vs. cows that continued to feed on the old rice straw (control group, n = 4) were measured at the start (d 1) and at 2 wk (d 14) after the onset of feeding with straw. In addition, the ZEN concentration in feed and water samples was measured by using both the ELISA and HPLC methods. Furthermore, isolation and identification of fungi from rice straw and concentrate feed samples were performed. The urinary ZEN concentration [ZEN (pg/mL)/creatinine (mg/mL) = pg/mg of creatinine] of cows fed with new rice straw was significantly (P < 0.05) less (843 pg/mg of creatinine) than that of cows fed with old rice straw (15,951 pg/mg of creatinine). On both d 1 and 14, the ZEN concentrations of old rice straw were greater than those of new rice straw. In addition, fungal colonies were observed in the culture media that was obtained from the old rice straw suspected of ZEN contamination, but not in the culture media from new rice straw or other feed samples. In conclusion, our field trials clearly indicate that the rice straw fed to the cows was naturally contaminated with ZEN, and that the monitoring of urinary ZEN concentrations could prove to be a useful tool for detecting the exposure of cattle to ZEN contamination at the farm level.
22147560	ClpB-cytoplasmic (ClpB-cyt)/Hsp100 is an important chaperone protein in rice. Cellular expression of OsClpB-cyt transcript is governed by heat stress, metal stress, and developmental cues. Transgenic rice plants produced with 2 kb OsClpB-cyt promoter driving Gus reporter gene showed heat- and metal-regulated Gus expression in vegetative tissues and constitutive Gus expression in calli, flowering tissues, and embryonal half of seeds. Rice seedlings regenerated with OsClpB-cyt promoter fragment with deletion of its canonical heat shock element sequence (HSE(-273 to -280)) showed not only heat shock inducibility of Gus transcript/protein but also constitutive expression of Gus in vegetative tissues. It thus emerges that the only classical HSE present in OsClpB-cyt promoter is involved in repressing expression of OsClpB-cyt transcript under unstressed control conditions. Yeast one-hybrid assays suggested that OsHsfA2c specifically interacts with OsClpB-cyt promoter. OsHsfA2c also showed binding with OsClpB-cyt and OsHsfB4b showed binding with OsClpB-cyt; notably, interaction of OsHsfB4b was seen for all three OsClpB/Hsp100 protein isoforms (i.e., ClpB-cytoplasmic, ClpB-mitochondrial, and ClpB-chloroplastic). Furthermore, OsHsfB4b showed interaction with OsHsfA2c. This study suggests that OsHsfA2c may play a role as transcriptional activator and that OsHsfB4b is an important part of this heat shock responsive circuitry.
22147755	Plant seed oil is important for human dietary consumption and industrial application. The oil trait is controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs), but no QTLs for fatty acid composition are known in rice, the monocot model plant. QTL analysis was performed using F(2) and F(2:3) progeny from a cross of an indica variety and a japonica variety. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis revealed significant differences between parental lines in fatty acid composition of brown rice oil, and 29 associated QTLs in F(2) and/or F(2:3) populations were identified throughout the rice genome, except chromosomes 9 and 10. Eight QTLs were repeatedly identified in both populations across different environments. Five loci pleiotropically controlled different traits, contributing to complex interactions of oil with fatty acids and between fatty acids. Nine rice orthologs of Arabidopsis genes encoding key enzymes in lipid metabolism co-localized with 11 mapped QTLs. A strong QTL for oleic (18:1) and linoleic (18:2) acid were associated with a rice ortholog of a gene encoding acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT), and another for palmitic acid (16:0) mapped similarly to the acyl-ACP thioesterase (FatB) gene ortholog. Our approach rapidly and efficiently identified candidate genes for mapped QTLs controlling fatty acid composition and oil concentration, providing information for improving rice grain quality by marker assisted selection.
22148239	The increasing application of chiral pesticides has enhanced interest in their enantioselectivity. However, little relevant information is currently available for enantioselective activity of chiral plant growth regulators. In an attempt to screen active enantiomers of uniconazole, this work investigated enantiomeric separation and the enantioselective effect of uniconazole on the growth of rice seedlings and cyanobacteria. Baseline resolution of uniconazole enantiomers was achieved on a Chiralpak AD column by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The relationship among circular dichroism (CD), optical rotation (OR), and absolute configuration was successfully established by coupling of CD and OR detection. The t test at the 95% level of confidence indicated significant differences between the enantiomers in their retardant activity toward growth of rice seedlings and stimulation effect on growth of cyanobacteria, the natural biofertilizers in rice paddy fields. The S-(+)-enantiomer was more active than the R-(-)-enantiomer in retarding growth of rice seedlings and stimulating growth of Microcystis aeruginosa . This special enantiomeric selectivity was further elucidated by probing the binding mode of enantiomers to gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidase by molecular docking. The S-(+)-enantiomer was found to bind tightly with GA 20-oxidase. The results suggested that the S-(+)-enantiomer instead of a racemate of uniconazole should be used to improve rice seedling quality.
22148630	The laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) technique was applied to quantify nutrients (Mg, Ca, Na, and K) in spinach and rice and to discriminate pesticide-contaminated products in a rapid manner. Standard reference materials (spinach leaves and unpolished rice flour) were used to establish a relationship between LIBS intensity and the concentration of each element (Mg, Ca, Na, and K) (i.e., calibration line). The limits of detection (LODs) for Mg, Ca, Na, and K were found to be 29.63, 102.65, 36.36, and 44.46 mg/kg in spinach and 7.54, 1.76, 4.19, and 6.70 mg/kg in unpolished rice, respectively. Concentrations of those nutrient elements present in spinach and unpolished rice from a local market were determined by using the calibration lines and compared with those measured with ICP-OES, showing good agreement. The data also suggested that the LIBS technique with the chemometric method (PLS-DA) could be a great tool to distinguish pesticide-contaminated samples from pesticide-free samples in a rapid manner even though they have similar elemental compositions. Misclassification rates were found to be 0 and 2% for clean spinach and pesticide-contaminated spinach, respectively, by applying the PLS-DA model established from the training set of data to predict the classes of test samples.
22150231	• There is controversy as to whether specific natural products play a role in directly mediating antagonistic plant-plant interactions - that is, allelopathy. If proved to exist, such phenomena would hold considerable promise for agronomic improvement of staple food crops such as rice (Oryza sativa). • However, while substantiated by the presence of phytotoxic compounds at potentially relevant concentrations, demonstrating a direct role for specific natural products in allelopathy has been difficult because of the chemical complexity of root and plant litter exudates. This complexity can be bypassed via selective genetic manipulation to ablate production of putative allelopathic compounds, but such an approach previously has not been applied. • The rice diterpenoid momilactones provide an example of natural products for which correlative biochemical evidence has been obtained for a role in allelopathy. Here, we apply reverse genetics, using knock-outs of the relevant diterpene synthases (copalyl diphosphate synthase 4 (OsCPS4) and kaurene synthase-like 4 (OsKSL4)), to demonstrate that rice momilactones are involved in allelopathy, including suppressing growth of the widespread rice paddy weed, barnyard grass (Echinochloa crus-galli). • Thus, our results not only provide novel genetic evidence for natural product-mediated allelopathy, but also furnish a molecular target for breeding and metabolic engineering of this important crop plant.
22150334	SiteFinding-PCR is a method for isolating flanking sequence tags (FSTs) of T-DNA insertion lines, but the efficiency needs to be improved. Here we report a computation-assisted design for the random primers used in SiteFinding- PCR. A short sequence, GCATG, was screened from the rice genome and used as the 3' end of the random primer. When applying the optimized primer for isolating FSTs from 168 transgenic rice lines, we obtained 107 specific products, including 64 FSTs. The efficiency of obtaining FSTs using the modified version of SiteFinding-PCR increased by 73.0% compared with the method previously reported (P < 0.01, µ test). We also provide computational results for several other plant species such as maize, sorghum, Arabidopsis, foxtail millet, and Brachypodium based on the available genome data, so that the modified method could be easily adapted to other species.
22151303	Organ size is determined by cell number and size, and involves two fundamental processes: cell proliferation and cell expansion. Although several plant hormones are known to play critical roles in shaping organ size by regulating the cell cycle, it is not known whether brassinosteroids (BRs) are also involved in regulating cell division. Here we identified a rice T-DNA insertion mutant for organ size, referred to as xiao, that displays dwarfism and erect leaves, typical BR-related phenotypes, together with reduced seed setting. XIAO is predicted to encode an LRR kinase. The small stature of the xiao mutant resulted from reduced organ sizes due to decreased cell numbers resulting from reduced cell division rate, as supported by the observed co-expression of XIAO with a number of genes involved in cell cycling. The xiao mutant displayed a tissue-specific enhanced BR response and greatly reduced BR contents at the whole-plant level. These results indicated that XIAO is a regulator of BR signaling and cell division. Thus, XIAO may provide a possible connection between BRs and cell-cycle regulation in controlling organ growth.
22152050	Large-scale production of effective cellulose hydrolytic enzymes is the key to the bioconversion of agricultural residues to ethanol. The goal of this study was to develop a rice plant as a bioreactor for the large-scale production of cellulose hydrolytic enzymes via genetic transformation, and to simultaneously improve rice straw as an efficient biomass feedstock for conversion of cellulose to glucose. In this study, the cellulose hydrolytic enzyme β-1, 4-endoglucanase (E1) gene, from the thermophilic bacterium Acidothermus cellulolyticus, was overexpressed in rice through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The expression of the bacterial E1 gene in rice was driven by the constitutive Mac promoter, a hybrid promoter of Ti plasmid mannopine synthetase promoter and cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter enhancer, with the signal peptide of tobacco pathogenesis-related protein for targeting the E1 protein to the apoplastic compartment for storage. A total of 52 transgenic rice plants from six independent lines expressing the bacterial E1 enzyme were obtained that expressed the gene at high levels without severely impairing plant growth and development. However, some transgenic plants exhibited a shorter stature and flowered earlier than the wild type plants. The E1 specific activities in the leaves of the highest expressing transgenic rice lines were about 20-fold higher than those of various transgenic plants obtained in previous studies and the protein amounts accounted for up to 6.1% of the total leaf soluble protein. A zymogram and temperature-dependent activity analyses demonstrated the thermostability of the E1 enzyme and its substrate specificity against cellulose, and a simple heat treatment can be used to purify the protein. In addition, hydrolysis of transgenic rice straw with cultured cow gastric fluid for one hour at 39°C and another hour at 81°C yielded 43% more reducing sugars than wild type rice straw. Taken together, these data suggest that transgenic rice can effectively serve as a bioreactor for the large-scale production of active, thermostable cellulose hydrolytic enzymes. As a feedstock, direct expression of large amount of cellulases in transgenic rice may also facilitate saccharification of cellulose in rice straw and significantly reduce the costs for hydrolytic enzymes.
22152096	The evaluation of yield-related traits is an essential step in rice breeding, genetic research and functional genomics research. A new, automatic, and labor-free facility to automatically thresh rice panicles, evaluate rice yield traits, and subsequently pack filled spikelets is presented in this paper. Tests showed that the facility was capable of evaluating yield-related traits with a mean absolute percentage error of less than 5% and an efficiency of 1440 plants per continuous 24 h workday.
22152115	The aim of this study was to determine the relative validity of the self-administered Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) "What do you eat?", which was used in the German National Health Interview and Examination Survey for Children and Adolescents (KiGGS 2003-2006). The validation was conducted in the EsKiMo Nutrition Module, a subsample of KiGGS. The study population included 1,213 adolescents aged between 12 and 17. A modified diet history interview DISHES (Dietary Interview Software for Health Examination Studies) was used as the reference method. In order to compare the food groups, the data assessed with both instruments were aggregated to 40 similar food groups. The statistical analysis included calculating and comparing Spearman's correlation coefficients, calculating the mean difference between both methods, and ranking participants (quartiles) according to food group consumption, including weighted kappa coefficients. Correlations were also evaluated for relative body weight and socioeconomic status subgroups. In the total study population the Spearman correlation coefficients ranged from 0.22 for pasta/rice to 0.69 for margarine; most values were 0.50 and higher. The mean difference ranged between 1.4% for milk and 100.3% for pasta/rice. The 2.5 percentiles and 97.5 percentiles indicated a wide range of differences. Classifications in the same and adjacent quartile varied between 70.1% for pasta/rice and 90.8% for coffee. For most groups, Cohen's weighted kappa showed values between 0.21 and 0.60. Only for white bread and pasta/rice were values less than 0.20. Most of the 40 food groups showed acceptable to good correlations in all investigated subgroups concerning age, sex, body weight and socio-economic status. The KiGGS FFQ showed fair to moderate ranking validity except for pasta/rice and white bread. However, the ability to assess absolute intakes is limited. The correlation coefficients for most food items were similar for normal weight and overweight as well as for different socio-economic status groups. Overall, the results of the relative validity were comparable to FFQs from the current literature.
22152822	West Nile Virus (WNV) transmission in Italy was first reported in 1998 as an equine outbreak near the swamps of Padule di Fucecchio, Tuscany. No other cases were identified during the following decade until 2008, when horse and human outbreaks were reported in Emilia Romagna, North Italy. Since then, WNV outbreaks have occurred annually, spreading from their initial northern foci throughout the country. Following the outbreak in 1998 the Italian public health authority defined a surveillance plan to detect WNV circulation in birds, horses and mosquitoes. By applying spatial statistical analysis (spatial point pattern analysis) and models (Bayesian GLMM models) to a longitudinal dataset on the abundance of the three putative WNV vectors [Ochlerotatus caspius (Pallas 1771), Culex pipiens (Linnaeus 1758) and Culex modestus (Ficalbi 1890)] in eastern Piedmont, we quantified their abundance and distribution in space and time and generated prediction maps outlining the areas with the highest vector productivity and potential for WNV introduction and amplification. The highest abundance and significant spatial clusters of Oc. caspius and Cx. modestus were in proximity to rice fields, and for Cx. pipiens, in proximity to highly populated urban areas. The GLMM model showed the importance of weather conditions and environmental factors in predicting mosquito abundance. Distance from the preferential breeding sites and elevation were negatively associated with the number of collected mosquitoes. The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) was positively correlated with mosquito abundance in rice fields (Oc. caspius and Cx. modestus). Based on the best models, we developed prediction maps for the year 2010 outlining the areas where high abundance of vectors could favour the introduction and amplification of WNV. Our findings provide useful information for surveillance activities aiming to identify locations where the potential for WNV introduction and local transmission are highest. Such information can be used by vector control offices to stratify control interventions in areas prone to the invasion of WNV and other mosquito-transmitted pathogens.
22153234	Phytochromes are red/far-red photoreceptors encoded by a small gene family in higher plants. Differences in phenotype among mutants suggest distinct functions among phytochrome subfamilies. We attempted to find distinct functions among phytochromes by oligo-microarray analysis of single, double, and triple mutants in rice. In most cases, gene expression was redundantly regulated by phytochromes A and B after irradiation by a red light pulse in etiolated rice shoots. However, we found that several genes were specifically regulated by phytochromes A and C. Most of them were expressed immediately after the red light pulse in a transient manner. They are stress-related genes that may be involved in resistance to light stress when etiolated seedlings are exposed to light. These genes were not expressed in green leaves after the red light pulse, suggesting that they have a function specific to etiolated seedlings.
22154284	Measuring river water concentrations of all pesticides applied in a catchment area is a daunting task. This study aims to develop new score tables for selecting analytical target pesticides. Sensitivity analyses were conducted using a diffuse pollution hydrologic model to quantitatively evaluate the influence of pesticide properties (e.g., log K(OC), degradability [half-life]) on concentrations of rice-farming pesticides in river water. Using the results of the analyses, score tables were systematically designed for the pesticide properties such that the sum of the scores for a particular pesticide, designated as the contamination index, was proportional to the expected/predicted concentration of that pesticide in river water. The contamination indexes for pesticides applied in three river basins were calculated and compared with the corresponding observed pesticide concentrations. Correlations between contamination indexes and observed concentrations were fairly good. Pesticides were ranked according to the quotients obtained by dividing the pesticide concentrations predicted from the contamination indexes by the corresponding drinking-water quality guideline values, and pesticide candidates to be monitored were successfully selected on the basis of a threshold quotient.
22154879	The rise and spread of Anopheles gambiae s.l. (the major malaria vector sub-Saharan Africa) resistance to pyrethroids is of great concern owing to the predominant role of pyrethroid-treated nets in the WHO global strategy for malaria control. Use of pyrethroids for agricultural purposes may exert a strong selection pressure, favouring the emergence of insecticide resistance. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of alpha-cypermethrin treated nets in settings where insecticides are used against pests. This was assessed in two ways, i.e. under laboratory conditions using the WHO standard cones test technique and in experimental huts, on Anopheles gambiae s.l. collected in two Malian rural sites, Koumantou characterised by cotton crops and high insecticide use and Sélingué, a rice field area with low insecticide use. According to the WHO standard cones test technique, there was no difference between mosquitoes collected in the two sites; KD50 time was less than 3 min and the KD95 time below 30 min. Nevertheless, in the experimental huts with alpha-cypermethrin treated bed nets, the mosquito mortality rate was significantly lower in Koumantou (102/361, 28.2%) than in Sélingué (122/233, 52.3%) (RR: 0.65, 95%CI: 0.56-0.76) (p<0.001). In addition, in Koumantou the percentage of unfed mosquitoes found in the veranda was much lower in the huts with untreated (26.0%, 33/127) than in those with treated nets (92.2%, 118/128) (p<0.01) while in Sélingué there was no difference between huts with treated and untreated bed nets. Alpha-cypermethrin treated bed nets had a significant effect on mortality and repelling behaviour of Anopheles gambiae s.l. though in Koumantou treated bed nets were less efficacious, possibly due to the intense use of pesticide for agriculture.
22154941	Biofortification, that is, improving the micronutrient content of staple foods through crop breeding, could be a pro-poor, pro-rural, agriculture-based intervention to reduce the health burden of micronutrient malnutrition. While the potential cost-effectiveness of crops biofortified with single micronutrients was shown in previous research, poor people often suffer from multiple micronutrient deficiencies, which should be accounted for in biofortification initiatives. This study is the first to estimate the potential health benefits and cost-effectiveness of multi-biofortification. Rice with enhanced provitamin A, zinc, iron and folate concentrations is used as a concrete example. The research is conducted for China, the largest rice producer in the world, where micronutrient malnutrition remains a major public health problem. Using the DALY (disability-adjusted life year) framework, the current annual health burden of the four micronutrient deficiencies in China is estimated at 10.6 million DALYs. Introducing multi-biofortified rice could lower this burden by up to 46%. Given the large positive health impact and low recurrent costs of multi-biofortification, this intervention could be very cost effective: under optimistic assumptions, the cost per DALY saved would be around US$ 2; it would stay below US$ 10 even under pessimistic assumptions.
22155268	The aim of this systematic review was to collect data concerning the effects of diets containing GM maize, potato, soybean, rice, or triticale on animal health. We examined 12 long-term studies (of more than 90 days, up to 2 years in duration) and 12 multigenerational studies (from 2 to 5 generations). We referenced the 90-day studies on GM feed for which long-term or multigenerational study data were available. Many parameters have been examined using biochemical analyses, histological examination of specific organs, hematology and the detection of transgenic DNA. The statistical findings and methods have been considered from each study. Results from all the 24 studies do not suggest any health hazards and, in general, there were no statistically significant differences within parameters observed. However, some small differences were observed, though these fell within the normal variation range of the considered parameter and thus had no biological or toxicological significance. If required, a 90-day feeding study performed in rodents, according to the OECD Test Guideline, is generally considered sufficient in order to evaluate the health effects of GM feed. The studies reviewed present evidence to show that GM plants are nutritionally equivalent to their non-GM counterparts and can be safely used in food and feed.
22156226	Somaclonal variation is a phenomenon that results in the phenotypic variation of plants regenerated from cell culture. One of the causes of somaclonal variation in rice is the transposition of retrotransposons. However, many aspects of the mechanisms that result in somaclonal variation remain undefined. To detect genome-wide changes in regenerated rice, we analyzed the whole-genome sequences of three plants independently regenerated from cultured cells originating from a single seed stock. Many single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and insertions and deletions (indels) were detected in the genomes of the regenerated plants. The transposition of only Tos17 among 43 transposons examined was detected in the regenerated plants. Therefore, the SNPs and indels contribute to the somaclonal variation in regenerated rice in addition to the transposition of Tos17. The observed molecular spectrum was similar to that of the spontaneous mutations in Arabidopsis thaliana. However, the base change ratio was estimated to be 1.74 × 10(-6) base substitutions per site per regeneration, which is 248-fold greater than the spontaneous mutation rate of A. thaliana.
22157756	Plant resistance proteins (R-proteins) are key components of the plant immune system activated in response to a plethora of different pathogens. R-proteins are P-loop NTPase superfamily members, and current models describe their main function as ATPases in defense signaling pathways. Here we show that a subset of R-proteins have evolved a new function to combat pathogen infection. This subset of R-proteins possesses a nucleotide phosphatase activity in the nucleotide-binding domain. Related R-proteins that fall in the same phylogenetic clade all show the same nucleotide phosphatase activity indicating a conserved function within at least a subset of R-proteins. R-protein nucleotide phosphatases catalyze the production of nucleoside from nucleotide with the nucleotide monophosphate as the preferred substrate. Mutation of conserved catalytic residues substantially reduced activity consistent with the biochemistry of P-loop NTPases. Kinetic analysis, analytical gel filtration, and chemical cross-linking demonstrated that the nucleotide-binding domain was active as a multimer. Nuclear magnetic resonance and nucleotide analogues identified the terminal phosphate bond as the target of a reaction that utilized a metal-mediated nucleophilic attack by water on the phosphoester. In conclusion, we have identified a group of R-proteins with a unique function. This biochemical activity appears to have co-evolved with plants in signaling pathways designed to resist pathogen attack.
22158310	Rice is a staple crop that has undergone substantial phenotypic and physiological changes during domestication. Here we resequenced the genomes of 40 cultivated accessions selected from the major groups of rice and 10 accessions of their wild progenitors (Oryza rufipogon and Oryza nivara) to >15 × raw data coverage. We investigated genome-wide variation patterns in rice and obtained 6.5 million high-quality single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) after excluding sites with missing data in any accession. Using these population SNP data, we identified thousands of genes with significantly lower diversity in cultivated but not wild rice, which represent candidate regions selected during domestication. Some of these variants are associated with important biological features, whereas others have yet to be functionally characterized. The molecular markers we have identified should be valuable for breeding and for identifying agronomically important genes in rice.
22158467	Small RNAs have a variety of important roles in plant development, stress responses, and other processes. They exert their influence by guiding mRNA cleavage, translational repression, and chromatin modification. To identify previously unknown rice (Oryza sativa) microRNAs (miRNAs) and those regulated by environmental stress, 62 small RNA libraries were constructed from rice plants and used for deep sequencing with Illumina technology. The libraries represent several tissues from control plants and plants subjected to different environmental stress treatments. More than 94 million genome-matched reads were obtained, resulting in more than 16 million distinct small RNA sequences. This allowed an evaluation of ~400 annotated miRNAs with current criteria and the finding that among these, ~150 had small interfering RNA-like characteristics. Seventy-six new miRNAs were found, and miRNAs regulated in response to water stress, nutrient stress, or temperature stress were identified. Among the new examples of miRNA regulation were members of the same miRNA family that were differentially regulated in different organs and had distinct sequences Some of these distinct family members result in differential target cleavage and provide new insight about how an agriculturally important rice phenotype could be regulated in the panicle. This high-resolution analysis of rice miRNAs should be relevant to plant miRNAs in general, particularly in the Poaceae.
22158700	Bacterial blight is a devastating disease of rice (Oryza sativa) caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo). Zinc finger proteins harboring the motif with three conserved cysteine residues and one histidine residue (CCCH) belong to a large family. Although at least 67 CCCH-type zinc finger protein genes have been identified in the rice genome, their functions are poorly understood. Here, we report that one of the rice CCCH-type zinc finger proteins, C3H12, containing five typical CX(8)-CX(5)-CX(3)-H zinc finger motifs, is involved in the rice-Xoo interaction. Activation of C3H12 partially enhanced resistance to Xoo, accompanied by the accumulation of jasmonic acid (JA) and induced expression of JA signaling genes in rice. In contrast, knockout or suppression of C3H12 resulted in partially increased susceptibility to Xoo, accompanied by decreased levels of JA and expression of JA signaling genes in rice. C3H12 colocalized with a minor disease resistance quantitative trait locus to Xoo, and the enhanced resistance of randomly chosen plants in the quantitative trait locus mapping population correlated with an increased expression level of C3H12. The C3H12 protein localized in the nucleus and possessed nucleic acid-binding activity in vitro. These results suggest that C3H12, as a nucleic acid-binding protein, positively and quantitatively regulates rice resistance to Xoo and that its function is likely associated with the JA-dependent pathway.
22158838	The interaction between tea polyphenols (TPLs) and rice starch (RS) during gelatinization has been studied. In the RVA analysis, TPLs-fortified RS exhibited no clearly defined peak viscosity and hot paste viscosity. After excluding other factors, irregular viscosity changes were attributed to the strong interactions between RS and TPLs during pasting/gelatinization. Subsequently, the coupling constants of samples A (the gelatinized sample of the blend of 16% TPLs and RS) and B (the blend of 16% TPLs and gelatinized RS sample) in (1)H-NMR measurements were found to be the difference. Sample A had two coupling constants, (26h)J(HH) = 82.08, 100.77 Hz and (6h)J(HH) = 35.57 Hz, whereas Sample B had one larger coupling constant, (9h)J(HH) = 140.24 Hz. This implied that these two samples differed in H-H interaction and interaction strength of sample A may be stronger than that of sample B. More important is, sample A had clearly broadened O-H stretching and frequency red-shifts of C-O-H bending as compared with sample B in quantitative FT-IR analysis. The overall results indicate that TPLs and RS can have hydrogen bonding interaction during gelatinization.
22159463	Rice is a staple food yet is a significant dietary source of inorganic arsenic, a class 1, nonthreshold carcinogen. Establishing the location and speciation of arsenic within the edible rice grain is essential for understanding the risk and for developing effective strategies to reduce grain arsenic concentrations. Conversely, selenium is an essential micronutrient and up to 1 billion people worldwide are selenium-deficient. Several studies have suggested that selenium supplementation can reduce the risk of some cancers, generating substantial interest in biofortifying rice. Knowledge of selenium location and speciation is important, because the anti-cancer effects of selenium depend on its speciation. Germanic acid is an arsenite/silicic acid analogue, and location of germanium may help elucidate the mechanisms of arsenite transport into grain. This review summarises recent discoveries in the location and speciation of arsenic, germanium, and selenium in rice grain using state-of-the-art mass spectrometry and synchrotron techniques, and illustrates both the importance of high-sensitivity and high-resolution techniques and the advantages of combining techniques in an integrated quantitative and spatial approach.
22159889	Carbon dioxide (CO(2)) assimilation by autotrophic bacteria is an important process in the soil carbon cycle with major environmental implications. The long-term impact of fertilizer on CO(2) assimilation in the bacterial community of paddy soils remains poorly understood. To narrow this knowledge gap, the composition and abundance of CO(2)-assimilating bacteria were investigated using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and quantitative PCR of the cbbL gene [that encodes ribulose-1,5-biphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO)] in paddy soils. Soils from three stations in subtropical China were used. Each station is part of a long-term fertilization experiment with three treatments: no fertilizer (CK), chemical fertilizers (NPK), and NPK combined with rice straw (NPKM). At all of the stations, the cbbL-containing bacterial communities were dominated by facultative autotrophic bacteria such as Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Bradyrhizobium japonicum, and Ralstonia eutropha. The community composition in the fertilized soil (NPK and NPKM) was distinct from that in unfertilized soil (CK). The bacterial cbbL abundance (3-8 × 10(8) copies g soil(-1)) and RubisCO activity (0.40-1.76 nmol CO(2) g soil(-1) min(-1)) in paddy soils were significantly positively correlated, and both increased with the addition of fertilizer. Among the measured soil parameters, soil organic carbon and pH were the most significant factors influencing the community composition, abundance, and activity of the cbbL-containing bacteria. These results suggest that long-term fertilization has a strong impact on the activity and community of cbbL-containing bacterial populations in paddy soils, especially when straw is combined with chemical fertilizers.
22160725	Accumulation of cadmium (Cd) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) grains poses a potential health problem, especially in Asia. Most Cd in rice grains accumulates through phloem transport, but the molecular mechanism of this transport has not been revealed. In this study, we identified a rice Cd transporter, OsLCT1, involved in Cd transport to the grains. OsLCT1-GFP was localized at the plasma membrane in plant cells, and OsLCT1 showed Cd efflux activity in yeast. In rice plants, strong OsLCT1 expression was observed in leaf blades and nodes during the reproductive stage. In the uppermost node, OsLCT1 transcripts were detected around large vascular bundles and in diffuse vascular bundles. RNAi-mediated knockdown of OsLCT1 did not affect xylem-mediated Cd transport but reduced phloem-mediated Cd transport. The knockdown plants of OsLCT1 accumulated approximately half as much Cd in the grains as did the control plants. The content of other metals in rice grains and plant growth were not negatively affected by OsLCT1 suppression. These results suggest that OsLCT1 functions at the nodes in Cd transport into grains and that in a standard japonica cultivar, the regulation of OsLCT1 enables the generation of "low-Cd rice" without negative effects on agronomical traits. These findings identify a transporter gene for phloem Cd transport in plants.
22161123	Phospholipase D (PLD) and its product phosphatidic acid play important roles in the regulation of plant growth, development, and stress responses. The genome database analysis has revealed PLD family in Arabidopsis, rice, poplar and grape. In this study, we report a genomic analysis of 18 putative soybean (Glycine max) PLD genes (GmPLDs), which exist in the 14 of 20 chromosomes. GmPLDs were grouped into six types, α(3), β(4), γ, δ(5), ε(2), and ζ(3), based on gene architectures, protein domains, evolutionary relationship, and sequence identity. These GmPLDs contained two HKD domains, PX/PH domains (for GmPLDζs), and C2 domain (for the other GmPLDs). The expression patterns analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription PCR demonstrated that GmPLDs were expressed differentially in various tissues. GmPLDα1, α2, and β2 were highly expressed in most tissues, whereas GmPLDδ5 was only expressed in flowers and GmPLDζ1 was predominantly expressed in flowers and early pods. The expression of GmPLDα1 and α2 was increased and that of GmPLDγ was decreased by salt stress. GmPLDα1 protein expressed in E. coli was active under the reaction conditions for both PLDα and PLDδ, hydrolyzing the common membrane phospholipids phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylglycerol. The genomic analysis for soybean PLD family provides valuable data for further identity and characterization of their functions.
22161239	A real-time fluorescent PCR (RTF-PCR) was developed to detect and quantify wild abortive (WA)-type three-line hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L.). The mitochondrial R₂₋₆₃₀ WA gene was reported to be closely related to male sterility in plants, and developed as a molecular maker to identify the cytoplasmic male sterility system of hybrid rice. First, we got the DNA sequence of R₂₋₆₃₀ WA gene in 17 rice species with traditional PCR. Then, a pair of specific primers (P₃, P₄) and TaqMan fluorescence probe (P₃₋₁₄) were designed based on the R₂₋₆₃₀ DNA sequence. The following RTF-PCR was performed on the 17 rice species finally. The results indicate that the probes used here are specific for three-line hybrid rice F₁ and male sterile lines. We can even identify a single hybrid seed using the probes, which confirmed that the probes can be applied to the identification and quantification of the WA-type three-line hybrid rice. In addition, the RFT-PCR system can be optimized when the annealing temperature is 60 °C and the Mg²⁺ concentration is 3.5 mmol/L.
22161300	We used a sequential extraction to investigate the effects of compost amendment on Cd fractionation in soil during different incubation periods in order to assess Cd stabilization in soil over time. Pot experiments using rice plants growing on Cd-spiked soils were carried out to evaluate the influence of compost amendment on plant growth and Cd accumulation by rice. Two agricultural soils (Pinchen and Lukang) of Taiwan were used for the experiments. The relationship between the redistribution of Cd fractions and the reduction of plant Cd concentration due to compost amendment was then investigated. Compost amendment in Pinchen soil (lower pH) could transform exchangeable Cd into the Fe- and Mn-oxide-bound forms. With increasing incubation time, exchangeable Cd tended to transform into carbonate- and Fe- and Mn-oxide-bound fractions. In Lukang soil (higher pH), carbonate- and Fe- and Mn-oxide-bonded Cd were the main fractions. Exchangeable Cd was low. Compost amendment transformed the carbonate-bound form into the Fe and Mn oxide form. Pot experiments of rice plants showed that compost amendment enhanced plant growth more in Pinchen soil than in Lukang soil. Compost amendment could significantly reduce Cd accumulation in rice roots in both Pinchen and Lukang soils and restrict internal transport of Cd from the roots to the shoots. Because exchangeable Cd can be transformed into the stronger bonded fractions quickly in Pinchen soil, a reduction of Cd accumulation in rice due to compost amendment of Pinchen soil was significant by 45 days of growth. However, carbonate-bonded fractions in Lukang soil may provide a source of available Cd to rice plants, and exchangeable and carbonate-bonded fractions are transformed into the other fractions slowly. Thus, reduction of Cd accumulation by rice due to compost amendment in Lukang soil was significant by 75 days of growth. The results of the study suggest that the effectiveness of compost amendment used for stabilization of Cd and to decrease the phytoavailability of Cd for rice plants is different in acidic and alkaline soils. In acidic soil, Cd fractionation redistributes quickly after compost amendment and shows a significant reduction of Cd accumulation by the plant within a few weeks. In alkaline soil, due to the strongly bound fractions of Cd being in greater quantity than the weakly bound ones, a longer period (a few months) to redistribute Cd fractions is needed.
22161313	The plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC)-domain proteins play important roles in plant development and stress responses. In this research, a full-length cDNA named ENAC1 (early NAC-domain protein induced by abiotic stress 1) was isolated from rice. ENAC1 possess one NAC domain in the N-terminus. Comparative time-course expression analysis indicated that ENAC1 expression, similar with OsDREB1A, was induced very quickly by various abiotic stresses including salt, drought, cold, and exogenous abscisic acid. However, the induction of ENAC1 by abiotic stress was transient and lasted up to 3 h, whereas that of OsDREB1A maintained longer. The promoter sequence of ENAC1 harbors several cis-elements including ABA response elements, but the well-known dehydration responsive element/C-repeat element is absent. The ENAC1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion protein was localized in the nucleus of rice protoplast cell. Yeast hybrid assays revealed that ENAC1 was a transcription activator and bound to NAC recognition sequence (NACRS). Co-expression analysis suggested that ENAC1 co-expressed with a number of stress-related genes. Taken together, ENAC1 may be an early transcription activator of stress responses and function in the regulation of NACRS-mediated gene expression under abiotic stress.
22161381	Oral rehydration solution (ORS) is used to treat the dehydration caused by diarrhoeal diseases, including cholera. ORS formulations with an osmolarity (a measure of solute concentration) of ≤ 270 mOsm/L (ORS ≤ 270) are safe and more effective than ORS formulations with an osmolarity of ≥ 310 mOsm/L (ORS ≥ 310) for treating non-cholera diarrhoea. As cholera causes rapid electrolyte loss, it is important to know if these benefits are similar for people suffering from cholera. To compare the safety and efficacy of ORS ≤270 with ORS ≥ 310 for treating dehydration due to cholera. We searched the Cochrane Infectious Disease Group Specialized Register (April 2011), CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library Issue 4, 2011), MEDLINE (1966 to April 2011), EMBASE (1974 to April 2011), and LILACS (1982 to April 2011). We also contacted organizations and searched reference lists. Randomized controlled trials comparing ORS ≤ 270 with ORS ≥ 310 for treating adults and children with acute diarrhoea due to cholera. Two reviewers independently applied eligibility criteria, assessed trial quality, and extracted data. We pooled dichotomous data using risk ratio (RR), pooled continuous data using mean difference (MD) or the standardized mean difference (SMD), and presented the results with 95% confidence intervals (CI). For glucose-based ORS, seven trials (718 participants) met the inclusion criteria. Biochemical hyponatraemia (blood sodium levels < 130 mmol/L) was more common with ORS ≤ 270 (RR 1.67, CI 1.09 to 2.57; 465 participants, four trials), while a higher level of severe biochemical hyponatraemia (blood sodium levels < 125 mmol/L) in the same group was not significant (RR 1.58, CI 0.62 to 4.04; 465 participants, four trials). No instances of symptomatic hyponatraemia or death were noted in the trials that intended to record them. We found no statistically significant difference in the need for unscheduled intravenous infusion. Analyses separating children and adults showed no obvious trends.Two trials also examined rice-based ORS. In the ORS ≤ 270 group, duration of diarrhoea was shorter (MD -11.42 hours, CI -13.80 to -9.04; 102 participants, two trials). In people with cholera, ORS ≤ 270 is associated with biochemical hyponatraemia when compared with ORS ≥ 310, but there are no differences in terms of other outcomes. Although this risk does not appear to be associated with any serious consequences, the total patient experience in existing trials is small. Under wider practice conditions, especially where patient monitoring is difficult, caution is warranted.
22162872	Genetic modification of plants has become common practice. However, root-specific genetic modifications have only recently been advocated. Here, a review is presented regarding how root-specific modifications can have both plant internal and rhizosphere-mediated effects on aboveground plant properties and plant performance. Plant internal effects refer to pleiotropic processes such as transportation of the modified gene product. Rhizosphere-mediated effects refer to altered plant-rhizosphere interactions, which subsequently feed back to the plant. Such plant-soil feedback mechanisms have been demonstrated both in natural systems and in crops. Here how plant internal and rhizosphere-mediated effects could enhance or counteract improvements in plant properties for which the genetic modification was intended is discussed. A literature survey revealed that rice is the most commonly studied crop species in the context of root-specific transgenesis, predominantly in relation to stress tolerance. Phytoremediation, a process in which plants are used to clean up pollutants, is also often an objective when transforming roots. These two examples are used to review potential effects of root genetic modifications on shoots. There are several examples in which root-specific genetic modifications only lead to better plant performance if the genes are specifically expressed in roots. Constitutive expression can even result in modified plants that perform worse than non-modified plants. Rhizosphere effects have rarely been examined, but clearly genetic modification of roots can influence rhizosphere interactions, which in turn can affect shoot properties. Indeed, field studies with root-transformed plants frequently show negative effects on shoots that are not seen in laboratory studies. This might be due to the simplified environments that are used in laboratories which lack the full range of plant-rhizosphere interactions that are present in the field.
22164211	The assessment of genetic diversity and population structure of a core collection would benefit to make use of these germplasm as well as applying them in association mapping. The objective of this study were to (1) examine the population structure of a rice core collection; (2) investigate the genetic diversity within and among subgroups of the rice core collection; (3) identify the extent of linkage disequilibrium (LD) of the rice core collection. A rice core collection consisting of 150 varieties which was established from 2260 varieties of Ting's collection of rice germplasm were genotyped with 274 SSR markers and used in this study. Two distinct subgroups (i.e. SG 1 and SG 2) were detected within the entire population by different statistical methods, which is in accordance with the differentiation of indica and japonica rice. MCLUST analysis might be an alternative method to STRUCTURE for population structure analysis. A percentage of 26% of the total markers could detect the population structure as the whole SSR marker set did with similar precision. Gene diversity and MRD between the two subspecies varied considerably across the genome, which might be used to identify candidate genes for the traits under domestication and artificial selection of indica and japonica rice. The percentage of SSR loci pairs in significant (P<0.05) LD is 46.8% in the entire population and the ratio of linked to unlinked loci pairs in LD is 1.06. Across the entire population as well as the subgroups and sub-subgroups, LD decays with genetic distance, indicating that linkage is one main cause of LD. The results of this study would provide valuable information for association mapping using the rice core collection in future.
22164235	Both single gene and whole genome duplications (WGD) have recurred in angiosperm evolution. However, the evolutionary effects of different modes of gene duplication, especially regarding their contributions to genetic novelty or redundancy, have been inadequately explored. In Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice), species that deeply sample botanical diversity and for which expression data are available from a wide range of tissues and physiological conditions, we have compared expression divergence between genes duplicated by six different mechanisms (WGD, tandem, proximal, DNA based transposed, retrotransposed and dispersed), and between positional orthologs. Both neo-functionalization and genetic redundancy appear to contribute to retention of duplicate genes. Genes resulting from WGD and tandem duplications diverge slowest in both coding sequences and gene expression, and contribute most to genetic redundancy, while other duplication modes contribute more to evolutionary novelty. WGD duplicates may more frequently be retained due to dosage amplification, while inferred transposon mediated gene duplications tend to reduce gene expression levels. The extent of expression divergence between duplicates is discernibly related to duplication modes, different WGD events, amino acid divergence, and putatively neutral divergence (time), but the contribution of each factor is heterogeneous among duplication modes. Gene loss may retard inter-species expression divergence. Members of different gene families may have non-random patterns of origin that are similar in Arabidopsis and rice, suggesting the action of pan-taxon principles of molecular evolution. Gene duplication modes differ in contribution to genetic novelty and redundancy, but show some parallels in taxa separated by hundreds of millions of years of evolution.
22164299	Members of the homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) gene family encode transcription factors that are unique to plants and have diverse functions in plant growth and development such as various stress responses, organ formation and vascular development. Although systematic characterization of this family has been carried out in Arabidopsis and rice, little is known about HD-Zip genes in maize (Zea mays L.). In this study, we described the identification and structural characterization of HD-Zip genes in the maize genome. A complete set of 55 HD-Zip genes (Zmhdz1-55) were identified in the maize genome using Blast search tools and categorized into four classes (HD-Zip I-IV) based on phylogeny. Chromosomal location of these genes revealed that they are distributed unevenly across all 10 chromosomes. Segmental duplication contributed largely to the expansion of the maize HD-ZIP gene family, while tandem duplication was only responsible for the amplification of the HD-Zip II genes. Furthermore, most of the maize HD-Zip I genes were found to contain an overabundance of stress-related cis-elements in their promoter sequences. The expression levels of the 17 HD-Zip I genes under drought stress were also investigated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). All of the 17 maize HD-ZIP I genes were found to be regulated by drought stress, and the duplicated genes within a sister pair exhibited the similar expression patterns, suggesting their conserved functions during the process of evolution. Our results reveal a comprehensive overview of the maize HD-Zip gene family and provide the first step towards the selection of Zmhdz genes for cloning and functional research to uncover their roles in maize growth and development.
22164770	Lingzhi or Reishi medicinal mushroom, Ganoderma lucidum, is generally cultivated on hardwood logs or sawdust/woodchips based formulations. More than 100 million tonnes of paddy straw is being produced in India per year, and almost 50% of the straw is potentially available for growing mushrooms. In the present study an attempt was made to use paddy straw as a substrate to cultivate G. lucidim. Different proportions of paddy straw were mixed with 0, 22.5%, 45%, and 67.5% sawdust and 10% rice bran. Spawn run period, fruiting initiation period, yield, moisture content, dry recovery, and fruiting body characteristics were recorded and compared. Fructification was observed with all the substrate formulations and they did not show any significant difference in yield. The highest biological efficiency (BE) (29.9%) was observed with the combination sawdust:paddy straw:rice bran 22.5:67.5:10, followed by saw dust:paddy straw:rice bran 45:45:10 with BE 27.3%. The current study demonstrated for the first time that the cultivation of G. lucidum is possible with paddy straw as the base substrate and indicated the enormous potential of paddy straw for the cultivation of G. lucidum.
22164848	To evaluate the snail control effect and eco-economical benefit of the forest for snail control and schistosomiasis prevention in mountainous regions. From 2006 to 2010, the retrospective survey, field inspection and family interview were adopted to collect the data of snail status, and the economic income and ecological environment of local region in rice paddy, seedling bed, irrigation channel and kaleyard channel in Sanying Village, Eryuan County, Yunnan Province, where the Flourishing Forest and Controlling Snails Project was implemented. After the implementation of the project, compared to 2006, the snail areas in rice paddy, seedling bed, irrigation channel and kaleyard channel in 2010 reduced by 70.5%, 91.0%, 49.7%, and 58.8%, respectively; the occurrence rates of frames with living snails dropped by 81.6%, 97.2%, 84.4% and 87.9%, respectively; and the average densities of living snails dropped by 79.0%, 97.8%, 86.0% and 93.6%, respectively. The economic income of farmers and ecological environment improved obviously. The forest for snail control and schistosomiasis prevention in mountainous areas not only has an obvious effect on snail control, but also can yield significant economic and ecological benefits.
22164863	To understand the dynamic of the endemic situation of schistosomiasis in Jinbao Channel areas, so as to provide the evidence for surveillance and early-warning of schistosomiasis in the east route of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project. The conventional methods were used for the surveillance of Oncomelania hupensis snails in the first grade tributary and the flood land of Jinbao Channel. The methods of net salvage and attracting snails with rice straw curtains were used for snail surveys underwater in the surveillance sites. The residents, fishermen and crew were surveyed for schistosomiasis in the regions along the Jinbao Channel. The situation of the fishing boats carrying snails were surveyed, too. The accumulated areas where snails checked were 364.20 hm2. A total of 2 785 kg floats were collected and 400 pieces of rice straw curtains were placed in the surveillance sites, but no snails were found from 2006 to 2010. A total of 7 951 persons were surveyed for schistosomiasis by the serological test, and the total positive rate was 0.92%. The positive rates in the residents and fishermen were 0.79% and 1.55%, respectively. The fishmen's seropositive rate was higher than the residents' (chi2 = 7.11, P < 0.01). A total of 65 people received fecal examinations and there was one infected case. A total of 54 fish boats and 93 fishing gears were detected and no snails were found. There are no snails and schistosomiasis transmission, but there are the risks of imported schistosomiasis infectious source in the regions along the Jinbao Channel in the east route of the South-to-North Water Diversion Project, therefore, the long-term surveillance is necessary.
22164973	From 2006 to 2008, there were sharp increases in the prices of major food commodities globally, including maize, rice, and wheat. Few studies have contributed empirical evidence of the nutritional impacts of this food price crisis. To assess changes in energy intake in response to food price shocks and in relation to calorie adequacy levels in seven Latin American countries. Data were drawn from nationally representative household budget surveys. The quadratic almost ideal demand system (QUAIDS) model characterized change patterns in consumption for six food groups and one nonfood group under two scenarios: actual change in food prices by country, and standardized 10% increase in prices across all countries. Energy intakes before and after the crisis were determined once calories were assigned to food items from the ProPAN and US Department of Agriculture food composition databases. Energy intakes were reduced by 8.0% (range, 0.95% to 15.1%) from precrisis levels across all countries. Ecuador and Panama were the worst affected, followed by Haiti and Nicaragua. There was a consistent, direct relationship between wealth quintile and change in energy intake. Rural areas were affected to the same extent as or a greater extent than urban areas. High positive increases in calorie consumption were found in the richest wealth quintile, exceeding 10% of previous levels in five countries. Policies and programs targeting the poorest households in both rural and urban areas may be needed to offset the energy deficits associated with food price increases. More research is needed on the effect of food prices and micronutrient nutrition.
22165014	Deoxynivalenol (DON), also known as vomitoxin, belongs to a class of naturally occurring mycotoxins produced by Fusarium spp. DON, 12, 13-epoxy-3,7 trihydroxytrichothec-9-en-8-one, is one of the most frequently detected mycotoxins in agricultural commodities worldwide. A method consisting of extraction, filtration, column cleanup, and RP-HPLC-UV separation and quantitation was validated for the determination of DON in grains (rice and barley), grain products (whole wheat flour, white flour, wheat germ, and wheat bran), and processed foods (bread, breakfast cereals, and pretzels). A 25 g test portion was extracted with 100 mL acetonitrile-water (84 + 16, v/v). After blending for 3 min, the supernatant was applied to a multifunctional column (MycoSep 225). The purified filtrate (2 mL) was evaporated to dryness and redissolved in the mobile phase. The toxins were then subjected to RP-HPLC-UV analysis. The accuracy and repeatability characteristics of the method were determined. Recoveries of DON added at levels ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 microg/g for all test matrixes were from 75 to 98%. SD and RSD(r) ranged from 0.7 to 11.6% and 0.9 to 12.7%, respectively. Within-laboratory HorRat values were from 0.1 to 0.7 for all matrixes analyzed. The method was found to meet AOAC method performance criteria for grains, grain products, and processed foods. The identity of DON in naturally contaminated test sample extracts was confirmed by HPLC/MS/MS analysis.
22165231	A pot experiment was conducted to examine the yield, quality and cadmium (Cd) uptake in different rice cultivars, and Cd speciation in soil after exposing to Cd (0, 1 and 5 mg x kg(-1)) in the presence of organic acids and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA). The results showed that general increase in the yield for cultivars Xiushui63 and II you527 was observed. Yield of two rice cultivars were in order of organic acids treatment or organic acids + 1/2EDTA treatment > EDTA treatment. The exchangeable, carbonate related and ferric-manganese oxidation related Cd increased; while organic complexation Cd and residules decreased in the presence of organic acids and EDTA. Cadmium concentrations in grain, straw and roots of both cultivars markedly reduced in the presence of organic acids and EDTA. Grain Cd concentration was the lowest for plants treated with EDTA, followed by organic acids + 1/2EDTA, and the highest Cd concentration in grain was found in the treatment with organic acids. Grain Cd concentration decreased by 9.0% to 49.3% and 16.5% to 30.6% at 1 mg x kg(-1) Cd in the presence of organic acids and EDTA, and by 12.7% to 28.5% and 4.3% to 19.1% at 5 mg x kg(-1) Cd. Cadmium concentration and accumulation in plants and total Cd content in soil were higher in Xiushui63 than in that in II you527. Grain Cd concentration decreased, and yield and quality of two rice cultivars increased at the same time in the presence of organic acids + 1/2EDTA.
2216792
22168015	Thirty milled rice samples were collected from retailers in 4 provinces of Malaysia. These samples were evaluated for Aspergillus spp. infection by direct plating on malt extract salt agar (MESA). All Aspergillus holomorphs were isolated and identified using nucleotide sequences of ITS 1 and ITS 2 of rDNA. Five anamorphs (Aspergillus flavus, A. oryzae, A. tamarii, A. fumigatus and A. niger) and 5 teleomorphs (Eurotium rubrum, E. amstelodami, E. chevalieri, E. cristatum and E. tonophilum) were identified. The PCR-sequencing based technique for sequences of ITS 1 and ITS 2 is a fast technique for identification of Aspergillus and Eurotium species, although it doesn't work flawlessly for differentiation of Eurotium species. All Aspergillus and Eurotium isolates were screened for their ability to produce aflatoxin and ochratoxin A (OTA) by HPLC and TLC techniques. Only A. flavus isolate UPM 89 was able to produce aflatoxins B1 and B2.
22168839	Studies focusing on the targeting of RNAs that encode rice storage proteins, prolamines and glutelins to specific sub-domains of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), as well as mis-localization studies of other storage protein RNAs, indicate a close relationship between the ER site of RNA translation and the final site of protein deposition in the endomembrane system in developing rice endosperm. In addition to prolamine and glutelin, rice accumulates smaller amounts of α-globulins, which are deposited together with glutelin in the protein storage vacuole (PSV). In situ RT-PCR analysis revealed that α-globulin RNAs are not distributed to the cisternal ER as expected for a PSV-localized protein, but instead are targeted to the protein body-ER (PB-ER) by a regulated process requiring cis-sorting sequences. Sequence alignments with putative maize δ-zein cis-localization elements identified several candidate regulatory sequences that may be responsible for PB-ER targeting. Immunocytochemical analysis confirmed the presence of α-globulin on the periphery of the prolamine protein bodies and packaging in Golgi-associated dense vesicles, as well as deposition and storage within peripheral regions of the PSV. Mis-targeting of α-globulin RNAs to the cisternal ER dramatically alters the spatial arrangement of α-globulin and glutelin within the PSV, with the accompanying presence of numerous small α-globulin particles in the cytoplasm. These results indicate that α-globulin RNA targeting to the PB-ER sub-domain is essential for efficient transport of α-globulins to the PSV and its spatial arrangement in the PSV. Such RNA localization prevents potential deleterious protein-protein interactions, in addition to performing a role in protein targeting.
22168908	The SET (Su(var)3-9, Enhancer-of-zeste, Trithorax) domain is an evolutionarily conserved sequence of approximately 130-150 amino acids, and constitutes the catalytic site of lysine methyltransferases (KMTs). KMTs perform many crucial biological functions via histone methylation of chromatin. Histone methylation marks are interpreted differently depending on the histone type (i.e. H3 or H4), the lysine position (e.g. H3K4, H3K9, H3K27, H3K36 or H4K20) and the number of added methyl groups (i.e. me1, me2 or me3). For example, H3K4me3 and H3K36me3 are associated with transcriptional activation, but H3K9me2 and H3K27me3 are associated with gene silencing. The substrate specificity and activity of KMTs are determined by sequences within the SET domain and other regions of the protein. Here we identified 49 SET-domain proteins from the recently sequenced Brassica rapa genome. We performed sequence similarity and protein domain organization analysis of these proteins, along with the SET-domain proteins from the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana, the monocots Oryza sativa and Brachypodium distachyon, and the green alga Ostreococcus tauri. We showed that plant SET-domain proteins can be grouped into 6 distinct classes, namely KMT1, KMT2, KMT3, KMT6, KMT7 and S-ET. Apart from the S-ET class, which has an interrupted SET domain and may be involved in methylation of nonhistone proteins, the other classes have characteristics of histone methyltransferases exhibiting different substrate specificities: KMT1 for H3K9, KMT2 for H3K4, KMT3 for H3K36, KMT6 for H3K27 and KMT7 also for H3K4. We also propose a coherent and rational nomenclature for plant SET-domain proteins. Comparisons of sequence similarity and synteny of B. rapa and A. thaliana SET-domain proteins revealed recent gene duplication events for some KMTs. This study provides the first characterization of the SET-domain KMT proteins of B. rapa. Phylogenetic analysis data allowed the development of a coherent and rational nomenclature of this important family of proteins in plants, as in animals. The results obtained in this study will provide a base for nomenclature of KMTs in other plant species and facilitate the functional characterization of these important epigenetic regulatory genes in Brassica crops.
22169227	The uptake and accumulation of organic contaminants by plants can be detrimental to the plant itself as well as consumers. Tetracycline antibiotics are present at trace levels in soil and water. Under typical environmental conditions, they exist as zwitterions. Comparatively little is known of their uptake and accumulation by plants, or the mechanism by which this occurs. To examine this, rice (Oryza sativa L.) was employed, together with a static diffusion cell equipped with a cellulose membrane as a model for the uptake process. For rice, kinetic results suggested that the zwitterions were behaving similarly to neutral organic compounds, with a passive uptake process. The diffusion cell provided qualitatively similar results. When exposed to aqueous concentrations of zwitterionic tetracyclines of 50 mg L(-1) over 15 days, no translocation to shoots or detrimental effects on plants was observed. Despite relatively low root lipid contents, concentrations in root tissue of greater than 1000 mg kg(-1) (d.w.) were determined with maximum Root Concentration Factors of the order of 2000 L kg(-1) (d.w.). Overall, for the tetracyclines investigated, kinetic and accumulation behavior in plants together with permeation in the diffusion cell were all governed by compound hydrophobicity.
22169355	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial blight in rice, and this bacterial blight has been widely found in the major rice-growing areas. We constructed a transposon mutagenesis library of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and identified a mutant strain (KXOM9) that is deficient for pigment production and virulence. Furthermore, the KXOM9 mutant was unable to grow in minimal medium lacking aromatic amino acids. Thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR and sequence analysis of KXOM9 revealed that the transposon was inserted into the aroC gene, which encodes a chorismate synthase in various bacterial pathogens. In planta growth assays revealed that bacterial growth of the KXOM9 mutant in rice leaves was severely reduced. Genetic complementation of this mutant with a 7.9-kb fragment containing aroC restored virulence, pigmentation, and prototrophy. These results suggest that the aroC gene plays a crucial role in the growth, attenuation of virulence, and pigment production of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
22169501	Calnexin is an endoplasmic reticulum-localized molecular chaperone protein which is involved in folding and quality control of proteins. To evaluate the expression of calnexin in soybean seedlings under osmotic stress, immunoblot analysis was performed using a total membrane protein fraction. Calnexin constantly accumulated at an early growth stage of soybean under normal growth conditions. Expression of this protein decreased in 14-day-old soybean roots when treated with 10% polyethylene glycol for 2 days. Other abiotic stresses such as drought, salinity, cold as well as abscisic acid treatment, similarly reduced accumulation of calnexin and this reduction was correlated with reduction in root length in soybean seedlings under abiotic stresses. When compared between soybean and rice, calnexin expression was not changed in rice under abiotic stresses. Using Flag-tagged calnexin, a 70 kDa heat shock cognate protein was identified as an interacting protein. These results suggest that osmotic or other abiotic stresses highly reduce accumulation of the calnexin protein in developing soybean roots. It is also suggested that calnexin interacts with a 70 kDa heat shock cognate protein and probably functions as molecular chaperone in soybean.
22170053	Ozone depletion increases terrestrial solar ultraviolet B (UV-B; 280-315 nm) radiation, intensifying the risks plants face from DNA damage, especially covalent cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPD). Without efficient repair, UV-B destroys genetic integrity, but plant breeding creates rice cultivars with more robust photolyase (PHR) DNA repair activity as an environmental adaptation. So improved strains of Oryza sativa (rice), the staple food for Asia, have expanded rice cultivation worldwide. Efficient light-driven PHR enzymes restore normal pyrimidines to UV-damaged DNA by using blue light via flavin adenine dinucleotide to break pyrimidine dimers. Eukaryotes duplicated the photolyase gene, producing PHRs that gained functions and adopted activities that are distinct from those of prokaryotic PHRs yet are incompletely understood. Many multicellular organisms have two types of PHR: (6-4) PHR, which structurally resembles bacterial CPD PHRs but recognizes different substrates, and Class II CPD PHR, which is remarkably dissimilar in sequence from bacterial PHRs despite their common substrate. To understand the enigmatic DNA repair mechanisms of PHRs in eukaryotic cells, we determined the first crystal structure of a eukaryotic Class II CPD PHR from the rice cultivar Sasanishiki. Our 1.7 Å resolution PHR structure reveals structure-activity relationships in Class II PHRs and tuning for enhanced UV tolerance in plants. Structural comparisons with prokaryotic Class I CPD PHRs identified differences in the binding site for UV-damaged DNA substrate. Convergent evolution of both flavin hydrogen bonding and a Trp electron transfer pathway establish these as critical functional features for PHRs. These results provide a paradigm for light-dependent DNA repair in higher organisms.
22170431	Powdery mildew, caused by Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, is an important foliar disease of wheat worldwide. Wild emmer (Triticum turgidum var. dicoccoides) is a valuable genetic resource for improving disease resistance in common wheat. A powdery mildew resistance gene conferring resistance to B. graminis f. sp. tritici isolate E09 at the seedling and adult stages was identified in wild emmer accession IW170 introduced from Israel. An incomplete dominant gene, temporarily designated MlIW170, was responsible for the resistance. Through molecular marker and bulked segregant analyses of an F(2) population and F(3) families derived from a cross between susceptible durum wheat line 81086A and IW170, MlIW170 was located in the distal chromosome bin 2BS3-0.84-1.00 and flanked by SSR markers Xcfd238 and Xwmc243. MlIW170 co-segregated with Xcau516, an STS marker developed from RFLP marker Xwg516 that co-segregated with powdery mildew resistance gene Pm26 on 2BS. Four EST-STS markers, BE498358, BF201235, BQ160080, and BF146221, were integrated into the genetic linkage map of MlIW170. Three AFLP markers, XPaacMcac, XPagcMcta, XPaacMcag, and seven AFLP-derived SCAR markers, XcauG2, XcauG3, XcauG6, XcauG8, XcauG10, XcauG20, and XcauG25, were linked to MlIW170. XcauG3, a resistance gene analog (RGA)-like sequence, co-segregated with MlIW170. The non-glaucousness locus Iw1 was 18.77 cM distal to MlIW170. By comparative genomics of wheat-Brachypodium-rice genomic co-linearity, four EST-STS markers, CJ658408, CJ945509, BQ169830, CJ945085, and one STS marker XP2430, were developed and MlIW170 was mapped in an 2.69 cM interval that is co-linear with a 131 kb genomic region in Brachypodium and a 105 kb genomic region in rice. Four RGA-like sequences annotated in the orthologous Brachypodium genomic region could serve as chromosome landing target regions for map-based cloning of MlIW170.
22170703	Contamination with agricultural pesticides such as dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and its metabolites, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD), is among several proposed stressors contributing to the global declines in amphibian populations and species biodiversity. These chemicals were examined in insects and in the muscle, liver, and eggs of rice frogs (Rana limnocharis) from the paddy fields of an agricultural site in South China. The ΣDDT (sum of DDT, DDE, and DDD) concentrations ranged from 154 to 915, 195 to 1,400, and 165 to 1,930 ng/g lipid weight in the muscle, liver, and eggs, respectively. All the DDTs (DDT, DDE, and DDD) showed higher affinity for the liver relative to muscle tissue and can be maternally transferred to eggs in female frogs. The average biomagnification factors for DDTs ranged from 1.6 to 1.9 and 1.5 to 2.9 in female and male frogs, respectively, providing clear evidence of their biomagnification from insects to frogs. Compared with the reported DDT levels demonstrated to have toxic effects on frogs, DDTs in the present frogs are unlikely to constitute an immediate health risk. However, the adverse impacts of high DDT residues in eggs on the hatching success and their potential toxicity to the newly metamorphosed larval frogs should be assessed further.
22170830	The experiments were conducted in four concrete laboratory scale free water surface constructed wetland units 1 m wide, 1.5 m long and 0.8 m deep. Paddy field soil was added to a depth of 0.4 m and rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) were transplanted into the units at a density of 25 plants/m(2). Domestic wastewater collected from Chiang Mai University was applied into each unit via two different modes to evaluate suitable conditions for wastewater treatment and rice yield. In the first experiment, the wastewater was fed intermittently (7 h/day) with a hydraulic loading rate of 2, 4, 6 and 8 cm/day. The maximum removal efficiencies for chemical oxygen demand, biological oxygen demand, total kjedahl nitrogen and suspended solids were only 49.1, 58.7, 64.0 and 59.4%, respectively, due to the short hydraulic retention time for the biodegradation of organic substances. In the second experiment, the wastewater in each unit was inundated to a depth of 15 cm for 10, 15, 20 and 25 days in each unit and then drained and re-flooded. Removal efficiencies of chemical oxygen demand, biological oxygen demand, total kjedahl nitrogen and suspended solids were greater than in the first experiment especially at the 25 day retention time and except for suspended solids met the Thai national effluent standard. The study revealed that apart from wastewater treatment, wastewater can replace natural water to grow rice in the dry season or throughout the year. Moreover, nutrients in wastewater can be a substitute for chemical fertilizers. Rice grain production was 4,700 kg/ha and only 6% less than the production from the conventional paddy field.
22171310	Microcrystalline cellulose (MCCI) has been widely used as an excipient for direct compression due to its good flowability, compressibility, and compactibility. In this study, MCCI was obtained from agricultural by-products, such as corn cob, sugar cane bagasse, rice husk, and cotton by pursuing acid hydrolysis, neutralization, clarification, and drying steps. Further, infrared spectroscopy (IR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), optical microscopy, degree of polymerization (DP), and powder and tableting properties were evaluated and compared to those of Avicel PH101, Avicel PH102, and Avicel PH200. Except for the commercial products, all materials showed a DP from 55 to 97. Particles of commercial products and corn cob had an irregular shape, whereas bagasse particles were elongated and thick. Rice and cotton particles exhibited a flake-like and fiber-like shape, respectively. MCCI as obtained from rice husk and cotton was the most densified material, while that produced from corn cob and bagasse was bulky, porous, and more compressible. All products had a moisture content of less than 10% and yields from 7.4% to 60.4%. MCCI as obtained from bagasse was the most porous and compressible material among all materials. This product also showed the best tableting properties along with Avicel products. Likewise, all MCCI products obtained from the above-mentioned sources showed a more rapid disintegration time than that of Avicel products. These materials can be used as a potential source of MCCI in the production of solid dosage forms.
22171658	A lack of screening techniques delays progress in research on salinity resistance in rice. In this study, we report our test of the hypothesis that an apoplastic pathway (the so-called bypass flow) causes a difference in salt resistance between rice genotypes and can be used in screening for salinity resistance. Fourteen-day-old seedlings of low- and high-Na(+) -transporting recombinant inbred lines (10 of each) of rice IR55178 were treated with 50 mm NaCl and 0.2 mm trisodium-8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulphonic acid (PTS), a bypass flow tracer, for short (4 d) and long (90 d) periods of time. The results showed that the average shoot Na(+) concentration and bypass flow for high-Na(+) -transporting lines were 1.4 and 2.4 times higher than those of low-Na(+) -transporting lines, respectively. There was a positive linear correlation between the percentage of bypass flow and Na(+) concentrations in the shoots, suggesting that the difference in Na(+) transport in rice is a consequence of different degrees of bypass flow. Moreover, a high correlation was found between bypass flow and seedling survival after prolonged salt stress: the lower the magnitude of bypass flow, the greater the seedling survival. We conclude that bypass flow could be used as a new screening technique for salt resistance in rice.
22173308	The impacts of transgenic Bt rice on target pests and their predators need to be clarified prior to the commercialization of Bt rice. In this study, the percentages of folded leaves of three transgenic Bt rice lines and non-transgenic parental rice line caused by Cnaphalocrocis medinalis were studied over two successive growing seasons. In addition, the population densities, relative abundance and population dynamics of C. medinalis and four species of its natural arthropod predators were investigated at three sites in China. The results showed that rice line significantly affected the percentages of folded leaves and population densities of C. medinalis larvae. Significantly higher percentages of folded leaves were observed on the non-transgenic rice compared with the three transgenic Bt rice on most sampling dates. Significantly higher densities of C. medinalis larvae and higher relative abundance of C. medinalis within phytophages were found on non-transgenic rice compared with three transgenic Bt rice at different sites across the study period. The population dynamics of C. medinalis larvae were significantly affected by rice line, rice line×sampling date, rice line×year, rice line×sampling date×year. However, there was little, if any, significant difference in the relative abundance, population density and population dynamics of the four arthropod predators between the three Bt rice lines and non-transgenic rice. The results of this study indicate that the Bt toxin in transgenic Bt rice can effectively suppress the occurrence of C. medinalis, but has no significant effects on the occurrence of the four predatory arthropod species.
22173638	Patterns of diversity distribution in the Isa defense locus in wild-barley populations suggest adaptive selection at this locus. The extent to which environmental selection may act at additional nuclear-encoded defense loci and within the whole chloroplast genome has now been examined by analyses in two grass species. Analysis of genetic diversity in wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum) defense genes revealed much greater variation in biotic stress-related genes than abiotic stress-related genes. Genetic diversity at the Isa defense locus in wild populations of weeping ricegrass [Microlaena stipoides (Labill.) R. Br.], a very distant wild-rice relative, was more diverse in samples from relatively hotter and drier environments, a phenomenon that reflects observations in wild barley populations. Whole-chloroplast genome sequences of bulked weeping ricegrass individuals sourced from contrasting environments showed higher levels of diversity in the drier environment in both coding and noncoding portions of the genome. Increased genetic diversity may be important in allowing plant populations to adapt to greater environmental variation in warmer and drier climatic conditions.
22173656	Disturbed soil columns, 5.8 cm in diameter and 25 cm in length, were used as a basic model to simulate the movement of carbofuran in rice field soil under saturated conditions. Bioaugmentation using a specific carbofuran degrader, Burkholderia sp. PCL3, in free and immobilized cell forms and biostimulation using rice straw as organic amendment were applied with the aim of enhancing the degradation of carbofuran in soil and to prevent the movement of carbofuran along with the flow through. In the abiotic control and the treatment with only indigenous microorganisms, the mass recovery percentage of carbofuran in the effluent was 52.1 and 22.5%, respectively. The application of bioaugmentation or biostimulation significantly enhanced carbofuran degradation in soil and reduced the movement of carbofuran as indicated by a low mass recovery percentage of carbofuran in the effluent of 14.6-15.5%. A low efficiency of carbofuran removal was obtained from the soil column with bioaugmentation together with biostimulation treatments in which the mass recovery percentage of carbofuran in the effluent was in the range of 22.1-22.6%. Sorption of carbofuran to soil, rice straw and corncob, formation of carbofuran metabolite and colony forming unit (CFU) and pH variation with the time were also investigated during column operation.
22173736	Makgeolli brewed from rice contains about 150 g kg(-1) alcohol and has a fragrance as well as an acidic and sweet taste. During the brewing process, by-products such as rice bran and brewery cake are produced. At the end of fermentation the matured mash is transferred to a filter cloth and the Makgeolli is squeezed out from the cake, leaving the lees of the mash. These by-products have continued to increase every year, resulting in an ecological problem. It is therefore important to develop new uses for them. The objective of this study was to use the by-products from the brewing of Makgeolli as a valuable functional food or nutraceutical. The anti-complementary activities of crude polysaccharides isolated from Cytolase hydrolysates of Makgeolli lees at concentrations of 1000 and 500 µg mL(-1) were 84.15 and 78.70% respectively. The activity of polysaccharide krestin (PSK) was 60.00% at 1000 µg mL(-1). The active polysaccharide obtained with Cytolase comprised mainly glucose and mannose (molar ratio 1.00:0.62). Glucose- and mannose-rich crude polysaccharides were isolated from the Cytolase hydrolysate of Makgeolli lees. The polysaccharides retain anti-complementary activity to enhance the immune system as a functional food or nutraceutical.
22173887	The generalist moth, Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith) consists of two genetic subgroups (host strains) that differ in their distribution among host plant species. The corn strain prefers crop plants such as corn, sorghum, and cotton, while the rice strain is found in small grasses such as Cynodon spp. and rice. Little is known about the physiological factors that drive this host preference. Here, we report a feeding study with natural host plants and an artificial diet containing cyanide. We found that corn, two Cynodon spp. (bermudagrass C. dactylon (L.) Persoon, 'NuMex Sahara', and stargrass C. nlemfuensis var. nlemfuensis Vanderyst, 'Florona'), and a hybrid between bermudagrass and stargrass, 'Tifton 85', exhibited differences in the concentration of the cyanogenic precursors or cyanogenic potential (HCNp) and the release of hydrogen cyanide per unit time or cyanogenic capacity (HCNc). Corn plants released low levels of hydrogen cyanide, while stargrass had greater HCNp/HCNc than bermudagrass and 'Tifton 85'. Feeding studies showed that corn strain larvae experienced higher mortality than the rice strain when fed stargrass or artificial diet supplemented with cyanide. Also, corn strain larvae excreted higher levels of cyanogenic compounds than the rice strain when fed Cynodon spp. These differences in excretion suggest potential disparities in cyanide metabolism between the two strains. We hypothesize that differences in the susceptibility to cyanide levels in various host plants could play a role in driving strain divergence and what appears to be the incipient speciation of this moth.
22173938	Rice is the only food item which is not liberalized in Korea. To prepare for future liberalization of the rice market in Korea, the physicochemical characteristics and consumer perception of four domestic rice samples were compared with those of 11 foreign rice samples. Additionally, the influences of country of origin (CO) and price on purchase intent (PI) and willingness to pay (WTP) were investigated. Consumer acceptance of rice samples from Japan was generally higher than that of rice samples from other countries. In an informed test, PI was affected by price and CO, while WTP was affected mostly by price. The PI decreased with the price provided while the WTP increased. In a blind test, consumers evaluated PI and WTP according to sensory liking. The PI was higher in the informed test than in the blind test in all domestic samples. Generally, consumer acceptance was highly correlated with fat acidity (r = - 0.76), protein content (r = - 0.72), and b value (r = - 0.64) of the rice samples. Further efforts to increase the quality of rice are recommended for survival in the global market after liberalization of rice, even though consumers showed loyalty for PI of domestic samples.
22174442	During anoxia, cytoplasmic pH regulation is crucial. Mechanisms of pH regulation were studied in the coleoptile of rice exposed to anoxia and pH 3.5, resulting in H(+) influx. Germinating rice seedlings survived a combination of anoxia and exposure to pH 3.5 for at least 4 d, although development was retarded and net K(+) efflux was continuous. Further experiments used excised coleoptile tips (7-10 mm) in anoxia at pH 6.5 or 3.5, either without or with 0.2 mM NO(3)(-), which distinguished two processes involved in pH regulation. Net H(+) influx (μmol g(-1) fresh weight h(-1)) for coleoptiles with NO(3)(-) was ∼1.55 over the first 24 h, being about twice that in the absence of NO(3)(-), but then decreased to 0.5-0.9 as net NO(3)(-) uptake declined from ∼1.3 to 0.5, indicating reduced uptake via H(+)-NO(3)(-) symports. NO(3)(-) reduction presumably functioned as a biochemical pHstat. A second biochemical pHstat consisted of malate and succinate, and their concentrations decreased substantially with time after exposure to pH 3.5. In anoxic coleoptiles, K(+) balancing the organic anions was effluxed to the medium as organic anions declined, and this efflux rate was independent of NO(3)(-) supply. Thus, biochemical pHstats and reduced net H(+) influx across the plasma membrane are important features contributing to pH regulation in anoxia-tolerant rice coleoptiles at pH 3.5.
22174619	To elucidate whether the digestibility is responsible for the hypocholesterolemic action of rice protein, the effects of rice proteins extracted by alkali (RP-A) and α-amylase (RP-E) on cholesterol metabolism were investigated in 7-week-old male Wistar rats fed cholesterol-free diets for 3 weeks. The in vitro and in vivo digestibility was significantly reduced by RP-A and RP-E as compared to casein (CAS). The digestibility was lower in RP-E than that of RP-A. Compared with CAS, the significant cholesterol-lowering effects were observed in rats fed by RP-A and RP-E. Fecal excretion of bile acids was significantly stimulated by RP-E, but not by RP-A. The apparent cholesterol absorption was more effectively inhibited by RP-E than RP-A because more fecal neutral sterols were excreted in rats fed RP-E. There was a significant correlation between protein digestibility and cholesterol absorption (r = 0.8662, P < 0.01), resulting in a significant correlation between protein digestibility and plasma cholesterol level (r = 0.7357, P < 0.01) in this study. The present study demonstrates that the digestibility of rice protein affected by extraction method plays a major role in the modulation of cholesterol metabolism. Results suggest that the hypocholesterolemic action induced by rice protein with lower digestibility primarily contribute to the inhibition of cholesterol absorption.
22174807	Genomics studies are being revolutionized by the next generation sequencing technologies, which have made whole genome sequencing much more accessible to the average researcher. Whole genome sequencing with the new technologies is a developing art that, despite the large volumes of data that can be produced, may still fail to provide a clear and thorough map of a genome. The Plantagora project was conceived to address specifically the gap between having the technical tools for genome sequencing and knowing precisely the best way to use them. For Plantagora, a platform was created for generating simulated reads from several different plant genomes of different sizes. The resulting read files mimicked either 454 or Illumina reads, with varying paired end spacing. Thousands of datasets of reads were created, most derived from our primary model genome, rice chromosome one. All reads were assembled with different software assemblers, including Newbler, Abyss, and SOAPdenovo, and the resulting assemblies were evaluated by an extensive battery of metrics chosen for these studies. The metrics included both statistics of the assembly sequences and fidelity-related measures derived by alignment of the assemblies to the original genome source for the reads. The results were presented in a website, which includes a data graphing tool, all created to help the user compare rapidly the feasibility and effectiveness of different sequencing and assembly strategies prior to testing an approach in the lab. Some of our own conclusions regarding the different strategies were also recorded on the website. Plantagora provides a substantial body of information for comparing different approaches to sequencing a plant genome, and some conclusions regarding some of the specific approaches. Plantagora also provides a platform of metrics and tools for studying the process of sequencing and assembly further.
22174925	Odorant binding proteins (OBPs) play important roles in insect olfaction. The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens Stål (Delphacidae, Auchenorrhyncha, Hemiptera) is one of the most important rice pests. Its monophagy (only feeding on rice), wing form (long and short wing) variation, and annual long distance migration (seeking for rice plants of high nutrition) imply that the olfaction would play a central role in BPH behavior. However, the olfaction related proteins have not been characterized in this insect. Full length cDNA of three OBPs were obtained and distinct expression profiles were revealed regarding to tissue, developmental stage, wing form and gender for the first time for the species. The results provide important clues in functional differentiation of these genes. Binding assays with 41 compounds demonstrated that NlugOBP3 had markedly higher binding ability and wider binding spectrum than the other two OBPs. Terpenes and Ketones displayed higher binding while Alkanes showed no binding to the three OBPs. Focused on NlugOBP3, RNA interference experiments showed that NlugOBP3 not only involved in nymph olfaction on rice seedlings, but also had non-olfactory functions, as it was closely related to nymph survival. NlugOBP3 plays important roles in both olfaction and survival of BPH. It may serve as a potential target for developing behavioral disruptant and/or lethal agent in N. lugens.
22174954	The rice XA21 pattern recognition receptor binds a type I secreted sulfated peptide, called axY(S)22, derived from the Ax21 (activator of XA21-mediated immunity) protein. The conservation of Ax21 in all sequenced Xanthomonas spp. and closely related genera suggests that Ax21 serves a key biological function. Here we show that the predicted N-terminal sequence of Ax21 is cleaved prior to secretion outside the cell and that mature Ax21 serves as a quorum sensing (QS) factor in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Ax21-mediated QS controls motility, biofilm formation and virulence. We provide genetic evidence that the Xoo RaxH histidine kinase serves as the bacterial receptor for Ax21. This work establishes a critical role for small protein-mediated QS in a Gram-negative bacterium.
22177301	To explore the status and trend of cereal consumption among Chinese adults aged 18 to 59 years in nine provinces (municipality) from 1989 to 2006. The survey data were collected by consecutive 3 d 24 h dietary recall method in 1989, 1991, 1993, 1997, 2000, 2004 and 2006 China Health and Nutrition Survey Project. The subjects aged 18-59 years with complete information on dietary survey were included. The sample number of the subjects were 5978, 7566, 7492, 7738, 8439, 7484 and 7157 in the 7 round surveys from 1989 to 2006, respectively. The trends of their cereal consuming rate and daily intake were analyzed by year, gender, age and regions. The cereal intake of 18 - 59 years old Chinese adults in 9 provinces (municipality) decreased from 522.3 g/d in 1989 to 431.9 g/d in 2006 (χ(2) = 2421.76, P < 0.01). The cereal intake of males decreased from 545.6 g/d in 1989 to 471.6 g/d in 2006 (χ(2) = 861.21, P < 0.01) and females decreased from 500.3 g/d in 1989 to 395.5 g/d in 2006 (χ(2) = 1844.13, P < 0.01). Compared with 1989, the average cereal consumption were reduced to 104.8, 134.4, 103.3 and 98.2 g in the suburban, female, 18 to 29 years old age group and level of education for college and above separately in 2006. The rice consuming rate among 18 - 59 year-old residents increased from 79.9% (4776/5978) in 1989 to 87.3% (6248/7157) (Z = 18.45, P < 0.01) in 2006, the wheat consuming rate increased from 63.3% (3784/5978) in 1989 to 80.2% (5740/7157) (Z = 27.28, P < 0.01) in 2006. The present study indicated that there was a decreasing trend of cereal intake among Chinese adults aged 18 - 59 years in 9 provinces (municipality). In the stratified groups, cereal intake in groups of female, suburb, aged 18 - 59 years and higher educational level decreased significantly.
22177403	We studied the effects of food type and food unit size on food intake and satiety using fried rice mixed with Kimchi in healthy Korean young women (n=31). Amorphous fried rice (1st week), distinct large fried rice balls (100 g/unit, 2nd week) and distinct small fried rice balls (20 g/unit, 3rd week) were served in the same content and volume (500 g). Subjects ate significantly (p<.001) less distinct large fried rice balls (243.5 g) compared to amorphous fried rice (317.2 g). Despite consuming more amorphous fried rice, subjects did not feel significantly fuller after eating amorphous fried rice compared to distinct large fried rice balls. When distinct fried rice balls were served as smaller unit, subjects ate significantly less them (small unit; 190.6 g vs. large unit; 243.5 g, p<.01). Although subjects ate more distinct fried rice balls provided as large unit, they rated similar satiety and hunger levels for distinct small and distinct large fried rice balls. In conclusion, we propose that distinct foods with smaller unit would be an effective approach to achieve sustainable weight loss.
22177967	The application of ultrasound for treating rice hull used as the fermentation substrate for xylooligosaccharides production was investigated. Aspergillus japonicus CY6-1 was selected to produce cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes from untreated rice hull (RH) and rice hull treated with ultrasound (USRH-M). The hemicellulose yield was increased to 1.4-fold with ultrasound, and treatment time was greatly shortened from 24h to 1.5h at 80 °C and 300 W/28 kHz. The morphology of RH from various pretreatments was observed with field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM), revealing the surface structure of USRH-M smoother than that of RH. USRH-M was much easier to be utilized by fungi, to extend the stability of enzyme activity and to increase activities of CMCase, β-glucosidase, and xylanase compared with those of untreated RH. The final fermentative products were xylotetraose, xylohexaose, and higher molecular weight xylooligosaccharides, achieving xylohexaose yield for USRH-M 80% higher than that for RH group.
22180466	The physiological properties of rice grains are immediately obvious to consumers. High-coverage metabolomic characterization of the rice diversity research set predicted a negative correlation between fatty acid and lipid levels and amylose/total starch ratio (amylose ratio), but the reason for this is unclear. To obtain new insight into the relationships among the visual phenotypes of rice kernels, starch granule structures, amylose ratios, and metabolite changes, we investigated the metabolite changes of five Japonica cultivars with various amylose ratios and two knockout mutants (e1, a Starch synthase IIIa (SSIIIa)-deficient mutant and the SSIIIa/starch branching enzyme (BE) double-knockout mutant 4019) by using mass spectrometry-based metabolomics techniques. Scanning electron microscopy clearly showed that the two mutants had unusual starch granule structures. The metabolomic compositions of two cultivars with high amylose ratios (Hoshiyutaka and Yumetoiro) exhibited similar patterns, while that of the double-knockout mutant, which has an extremely high amylose ratio, differed. Rice pedigree network analysis of the cultivars and the mutants provided insight into the association between metabolic-trait properties and their underlying genetic basis in rice breeding in Japan. Multidimensional scaling analysis revealed that the Hoshiyutaka and Yumetoiro cultivars were Indica-like, yet they are classified as Japonica subpopulations. Exploring metabolomic traits is a powerful way to follow rice genetic traces and breeding history.
22181322	Effect of genetic background on detection of quantitative trait locus (QTL) governing salinity tolerance (ST) was studied using two sets of reciprocal introgression lines (ILs) derived from a cross between a moderately salinity tolerant japonica variety, Xiushui09 from China, and a drought tolerant but salinity susceptible indica breeding line, IR2061-520-6-9 from the Philippines. Salt toxicity symptoms (SST) on leaves, days to seedling survival (DSS), and sodium and potassium uptake by shoots were measured under salinity stress of 140 mmol/L of NaCl. A total of 47 QTLs, including 26 main-effect QTLs (M-QTLs) and 21 epistatic QTLs (E-QTLs), were identified from the two sets of reciprocal ILs. Among the 26 M-QTLs, only four (15.4%) were shared in the reciprocal backgrounds while no shared E-QTLs were detected, indicating that ST QTLs, especially E-QTLs, were very specific to the genetic background. Further, 78.6% of the M-QTLs for SST and DSS identified in the reciprocal ILs were also detected in the recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the same cross, which clearly brings out the background effect on ST QTL detection and its utilization in ST breeding. The detection of ILs with various levels of pyramiding of nonallelic M-QTL alleles for ST from Xiushui09 into IR2061-520-6-9 allowed us to further improve the ST in rice.
22181972	It seems there is a positive correlation between rice content and arsenic level in foods. This is of extraordinary importance for infants below 1 y of age because their diet is very limited and in some cases is highly dependent on rice-based products; this is particularly true for infants with the celiac disease because they have no other option than consume gluten-free products, such as rice or corn. Arsenic contents were significantly higher (P < 0.001) in gluten-free infant rice (0.057 mg kg⁻¹) than in products with gluten, based on a mixture of cereals (0.024 mg kg⁻¹). Besides, especial precaution must be taken when preparing rice-based products at home, because arsenic content in Spanish rice was high, with levels being above 0.3 mg kg⁻¹ in some cases. From the data presented in this manuscript, it seems imperative that legislation on maximum residues of arsenic in food should be available as soon as possible to protect consumers worldwide. Research is needed to identify or breed rice cultivars with low accumulation of arsenic in the grain; otherwise the rice percentage in infant foods should be reduced.
22182533	Outbreaks of the Nilaparvata lugens (Stål), have occurred frequently in China during the past few years, resulting in a broad and significant reduction in rice yield. N. lugens immigrate into China each spring from Southeast Asia, and the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region is the first area affected. Light trap catches for the early season period (March-June) in Guangxi for the past 30 yr have been analyzed, and the catch sequences for five observation stations (Longzhou, Hepu, Yongning Yongfu, and Quanzhou) were studied in detail. It was found that during the past 10 yr the first appearance of N. lugens at light traps occurs earlier, there is a higher frequency of days with large light-trap catches, and catches in southern Guangxi are larger. Recently light-trap catches have also increased in northern Guangxi. It is concluded that the increasing number of immigrants from overseas is one of the primary reasons for the increase in N. lugens outbreaks in the past 10 yr. Global warming, and specifically winter temperature increases, appears to be for a factor accelerating outbreaks of N. lugens in Asia.
22182537	Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) and Sogatella furcifera (Horváth) are the two most important long-distance migratory insect pests that cause great yield losses to rice in China. Accurate long-term population forecast is needed to implement effective management strategies for these two rice pests. In this paper, a transition probability matrix of 5-yr steps of Markov chain theory was constructed based on 31-yr light-trapping data of the two pests from 1977 to 2007 in Jiangkou County, Guizhou, China. The weight of each step for the transition probability matrix was calculated according to its prediction accuracy. Insect occurrence levels in the sixth year were predicted based on the occurrences of the previous 5 yr. Nonparametric Wilcoxon paired sample tests showed that there were no significant differences between the actual and predicted occurrences for both N. lugens and S. furcifera. In addition, the models accurately forecasted field occurrence in 2008 in Jinangkou County for both species. The results showed that the Markov models developed in this study offer an effective method for long-term population forecasting of N. lugens and S. furcifera and thus provide plant protection agencies and organizations with valuable information in implementing appropriate management strategies for these two devastating rice pests in Jiangkou and neighboring areas.
22182559	Host plant specificity depends on recognition of the host and the ability to discriminate it from nonhost plants. Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), an important insect pest of rice, is considered to be polyphagous, although few papers have ever reported infestation of C. suppressalis on most of the recorded hosts. The present investigation was designed to test whether two important gramineous crops, wheat and corn, are host plants of C. suppressalis based on the host-plant finding process in cage and Y-tube olfactometer tests, oviposition and egg hatching, and larval feeding and survival. In the cage tests, gravid C. suppressalis females did not differentiate rice plants from wheat or corn plants when only visual cues were involved, but were more attracted to rice plants when only olfactory cues or both vision and olfaction were present. The Y-tube olfactometer tests further confirmed that the females did not prefer wheat or corn plants, and revealed that they responded equally to clean air and odors from wheat or corn plants. Under no-choice and choice condition alike, the females laid eggs on a lower proportion of wheat and corn plants and egg number and hatching rate were significantly reduced on wheat and/or corn plants than on rice plants. Larval feeding was not observed in wheat and lower in corn than in rice plants, and no pupae or surviving larvae were collected from wheat and corn plants. The results suggest that wheat and corn are not host plants of C. suppressalis. These findings are discussed in context of host-finding process in C. suppressalis and management of resistance to transgenic Bt rice.
22182570	The lesser cornstalk borer, Elasmopalpus lignosellus (Zeller) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) is an important pest of sugarcane (a complex hybrid of Saccharum spp.) in southern Florida. Reproductive and life table parameters for E. lignosellus were examined at nine constant temperatures from 13 to 36 °C with sugarcane as the larval food source. The pre- and postoviposition periods decreased with increasing temperatures and reached their minimums at 33 and 36 °C, respectively. The oviposition period was longest at 27 °C. The mean fecundity, stage-specific survival, stage-specific fecundity, intrinsic rate of increase, and finite rate of increase were greatest at 30 °C and decreased with increasing or decreasing temperature. The net reproductive rate was greatest at 27 °C. The Logan-6 model best described the relationship between temperature and intrinsic rate of increase. The generation and population doubling times were longest at 13 and shortest at 33 and 30 °C, respectively. The most favorable temperatures for E. lignosellus population growth were between 27 and 33°C. Life table parameters for E. lignosellus reared on sugarcane were greater than for the Mexican rice borer [Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae)] reared on an artificial diet at 30 °C. The intrinsic rates of increase for the sugarcane borer [Diatraea saccharalis (F.) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae)] reared on sugarcane or corn were the same as for E. lignosellus reared on sugarcane at 27 °C, but the net reproductive rate was four times higher for the former than the latter borer species.
22182572	Little is known about the potential cumulative long-term effects of transgenic crops on nontarget organisms. In the present laboratory study, the potential cumulative effects of transgenic Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) rice on parasitoids in successive generations were observed for an egg parasitoid, Anagrus nilaparvatae parasitizing eggs of Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) feeding on Bt rice. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test confirmed that Cry1Ab insecticidal protein could be detected in newly eclosed parasitoid adults. However, no significant effect on the fecundity of Anagrus nilaparvatae Pang et Wang (Hymenoptera: Mymaridae) was observed between Bt and non-Bt rice. Developmental times of both genders of A. nilaparvatae parasitizing host eggs laid in Bt (KMD1 and KMD2) rice lines were significantly prolonged from first generation to second generation, but not always prolonged from third generation to 11th generation as compared with the control rice line. Furthermore, the sex ratio of A. nilaparvatae progeny from the first generation to 11th generation in three rice lines was not significantly different. In general, our results suggested that the effect of Bt rice on this parasitoid could be negligible.
22182945	In this study, novel GA3 magnetic molecularly imprinted polymer (mag-MIP) beads were synthesized by a microwave irradiation method, and the beads were applied for the trace analysis of gibberellin acids (GAs) in plant samples including rice and cucumber coupled with high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS). The microwave synthetic procedure was optimized in detail. In particular, the interaction between GA3 and functional monomers was further studied for the selection of the optimal functional monomers during synthesis. It can be seen that the interaction between GA3 and acrylamide (AM) finally selected was stronger than that between GA3 and other functional monomers. GA3 mag-MIP beads were characterized by a series of physical tests. GA3 mag-MIP beads had a porous and homogeneous surface morphology with stable chemical, thermal and magnetic properties. Moreover, GA3 mag-MIP beads demonstrated selective and specific absorption behavior for the target compounds during unsaturated extraction, which resulted in a higher extraction capacity (∼708.4 pmol for GA3) and selectivity than GA3 mag-non-imprinted polymer beads. Finally, an analytical method of GA3 mag-AM-MIP bead extraction coupled with HPLC-MS detection was established and applied for the determination of trace GA1, GA3, GA4 and GA7 in rice and cucumber samples. It was satisfactory that GA4 could be actually found to be 121.5 ± 1.4 μg kg(-1) in real rice samples by this novel analytical method. The recoveries of spiked rice and cucumber samples were found to be 76.0-109.1% and 79.9-93.6% with RSDs of 2.8-8.8% and 3.1-7.7% (n = 3), respectively. The proposed method is efficient and applicable for the trace analysis of GAs in complicated plant samples.
22183122	Plant breeding of rice emphasizes improvement in yield, disease resistance, and milling quality. Numerous other traits (e.g., bran carotenoids) that historically have not been selected for could provide added value in expanding niche markets, as well as be useful tools for understanding the genetic control of these traits. Residual heterozygosity is present in many rice cultivars; therefore, it is possible to select for different alleles within an existing cultivar. By identifying and using cultivars with high levels of variability for a trait, we were able to develop separate lines from single cultivars that showed high and low levels of that trait. The rice cultivar RU9101001 and the warm- and cold-sprouting lines that were derived from it were used to demonstrate that residual heterozygosity was present within a cultivar and that the original heterozygosity was separated in the derived lines. Rice simple sequence repeat markers were heterozygous in the parent RU9101001 cultivar, but the cold-sprouting lines were homozygous for one set of alleles and the warm-sprouting lines were homozygous for the other set. Through detailed phenotypic screening, we developed lines that exhibited low and high levels of the following traits in the specified cultivars: cold-sprouting from RU9101001 and Bonnet 73, postharvest yellowing from Tominishiki, early tillering from Hei Jaio and Tominishiki, and bran carotenoid levels from Spring. If variability exists in a cultivar, then utilization of residual heterozygosity may provide a quicker and more efficient means to develop lines with special characteristics using cultivars that are already agronomically valuable or to develop near isogenic lines for genetic and biochemical investigations.
22183565	The possibility of controlling Fusarium wilt--caused by Fusarium oxysporum sp. cubensec (race 4)--was investigated by genetic engineering of banana plants for constitutive expression of rice thaumatin-like protein (tlp) gene. Transgene was introduced to cauliflower-like bodies' cluster, induced from meristemic parts of male inflorescences, using particle bombardment with plasmid carrying a rice tlp gene driving by the CaMV 35S promoter. Hygromycin B was used as the selection reagent. The presence and integration of rice tlp gene in genomic DNA confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analyses. RT-PCR revealed the expression of transgene in leaf and root tissues in transformants. Bioassay of transgenic banana plants challenged with Fusarium wilt pathogen showed that expression of TLP enhanced resistance to F. oxysporum sp. cubensec (race 4) compared to control plants.
22184637	The genomes of three plants, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), and soybean (Glycine max), have been sequenced, and their many genes and promoters have been predicted. In Arabidopsis, cis-acting promoter elements involved in cold- and dehydration-responsive gene expression have been extensively analysed; however, the characteristics of such cis-acting promoter sequences in cold- and dehydration-inducible genes of rice and soybean remain to be clarified. In this study, we performed microarray analyses using the three species, and compared characteristics of identified cold- and dehydration-inducible genes. Transcription profiles of the cold- and dehydration-responsive genes were similar among these three species, showing representative upregulated (dehydrin/LEA) and downregulated (photosynthesis-related) genes. All (4(6) = 4096) hexamer sequences in the promoters of the three species were investigated, revealing the frequency of conserved sequences in cold- and dehydration-inducible promoters. A core sequence of the abscisic acid-responsive element (ABRE) was the most conserved in dehydration-inducible promoters of all three species, suggesting that transcriptional regulation for dehydration-inducible genes is similar among these three species, with the ABRE-dependent transcriptional pathway. In contrast, for cold-inducible promoters, the conserved hexamer sequences were diversified among these three species, suggesting the existence of diverse transcriptional regulatory pathways for cold-inducible genes among the species.
22187170	The MYB proteins constitute one of the largest transcription factor families in plants. Much research has been performed to determine their structures, functions, and evolution, especially in the model plants, Arabidopsis, and rice. However, this transcription factor family has been much less studied in wheat (Triticum aestivum), for which no genome sequence is yet available. Despite this, expressed sequence tags are an important resource that permits opportunities for large scale gene identification. In this study, a total of 218 sequences from wheat were identified and confirmed to be putative MYB proteins, including 1RMYB, R2R3-type MYB, 3RMYB, and 4RMYB types. A total of 36 R2R3-type MYB genes with complete open reading frames were obtained. The putative orthologs were assigned in rice and Arabidopsis based on the phylogenetic tree. Tissue-specific expression pattern analyses confirmed the predicted orthologs, and this meant that gene information could be inferred from the Arabidopsis genes. Moreover, the motifs flanking the MYB domain were analyzed using the MEME web server. The distribution of motifs among wheat MYB proteins was investigated and this facilitated subfamily classification.
22188265	Complex defence signalling pathways, controlled by different hormones, are known to be involved in the reaction of plants to a wide range of biotic and abiotic stress factors. Here, we studied the differential expression of genes involved in stress and defence responses in systemic tissue of rice infected with the root knot nematode (RKN) Meloidogyne graminicola and the migratory root rot nematode Hirschmanniella oryzae, two agronomically important rice pathogens with very different lifestyles. qRT-PCR revealed that all investigated systemic tissues had significantly lower expression of isochorismate synthase, a key enzyme for salicylic acid production involved in basal defence and systemic acquired resistance. The systemic defence response upon migratory nematode infection was remarkably similar to fungal rice blast infection. Almost all investigated defence-related genes were up-regulated in rice shoots 3 days after root rot nematode attack, including the phenylpropanoid pathway, ethylene pathway and PR genes, but many of which were suppressed at 7 dpi. Systemic shoot tissue of RKN-infected plants showed similar attenuation of expression of almost all studied genes already at 3 dpi, with clear attenuation of the ethylene pathway and methyl jasmonate biosynthesis. These results provide an interesting starting point for further studies to elucidate how nematodes are able to suppress systemic plant defence mechanisms and the effect in multitrophic interactions.
22188800	Rice bran wax (RBX) obtained during rice bran oil purification can form organogels in edible oils. The kinetics of crystallization and the viscous properties of RBX organogels were studied using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), viscosity changes with varying temperature, hardness measurements by penetrometry, and synchrotron radiation X-ray diffraction (SR-XRD). The organogels were prepared by RBX in concentrations of 1%, 3%, 6%, and 10% on a weight basis in salad oil, olive oil, and camellia oil. The liquid oil type had no significant effect on the melting and crystallization temperatures of the RBX. However, the viscosity and the texture of the organogels differed with liquid oil type, temperature, and RBX concentration. Changes in the viscosity of the RBX organogels were monitored during cooling from 80°C to 20°C. Drastic viscosity changes occurred in accordance with the onset of crystallization in DSC thermographs obtained at a rate of 5°C/min. RBX in the olive oil and camellia oil mixtures had higher viscosity than RBX in the salad oil mixture, which correlates with the hardness obtained in texture measurements at 20°C. SR-XRD was used to clarify the crystal structures of the building blocks of the RBX organogels in salad oil. It was found that the RBX formed crystals with a long spacing of 7.3 ± 1 nm and short spacings of 0.41 ± 1 nm and 0.37 ± 1 nm. The intensity of the long-spacing pattern was remarkably weaker than that of the short-spacing patterns, which demonstrated strong anisotropy in the crystal growth of RBX crystal particles.
22189496	The above- and below-ground parts of rice plants create specific habitats for various microorganisms. In this study, we characterized the phyllosphere and rhizosphere microbiota of rice cultivars using a metaproteogenomic approach to get insight into the physiology of the bacteria and archaea that live in association with rice. The metaproteomic datasets gave rise to a total of about 4600 identified proteins and indicated the presence of one-carbon conversion processes in the rhizosphere as well as in the phyllosphere. Proteins involved in methanogenesis and methanotrophy were found in the rhizosphere, whereas methanol-based methylotrophy linked to the genus Methylobacterium dominated within the protein repertoire of the phyllosphere microbiota. Further, physiological traits of differential importance in phyllosphere versus rhizosphere bacteria included transport processes and stress responses, which were more conspicuous in the phyllosphere samples. In contrast, dinitrogenase reductase was exclusively identified in the rhizosphere, despite the presence of nifH genes also in diverse phyllosphere bacteria.
22189605	The cultivar Ajaya (IET 8585) exhibits durable broad-spectrum resistance to bacterial blight (BB) disease of rice and is widely used as a resistance donor. The present study was carried out to decipher the genetics of BB resistance in Ajaya and map the gene(s) conferring resistance. Genetic analysis in the F2 indicated a quantitative/additive nature of resistance governed by two loci with equal effects. Linked marker analysis and allelic tests revealed that one of the resistance genes is xa5. Sequence analysis of a 244 bp region of the second exon of the gene-encoding Transcription factor IIAγ (the candidate gene for xa5) confirmed the presence of xa5. Bulked-segregant analysis (BSA) revealed the putative location of the two quantitative trait loci (QTLs)/genes associated with resistance on chromosomes 5 and 8. Composite interval mapping located the first locus on Chr. 5S exactly in the genomic region spanned by xa5 and the second locus (qtl BBR 8.1) on Chr. 8L. Owing to its differential disease reaction with a set of seven hyper-virulent isolates of Xanthomonas oryzae, a map location on Chr. 8L, which was distinct from xa13 and data from allelism tests, the second resistance locus in Ajaya was determined to be novel and was designated as xaAj. A contig map spanning xaAj was constructed in silico and the genomic region was delimited to a 13.5 kb physical interval. In silico analysis of the genomic region spanning xaAj identified four putatively expressed candidate genes, one of which could be involved in imparting BB resistance in Ajaya along with xa5.
22189706	A glasshouse pot experiment was conducted to investigate Cd concentrations in the aboveground parts of two consecutive crops of rice and Cd availability in three different soils (loam, silt loam, and sandy loam) after application of pig manure with added Cd. Soil pH tended to increase with increasing application rate of pig manure from 1 to 3% (w/w, oven dry basis). Soil diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) extractable Cd showed a clear positive correlation with soil total Cd content and increased with increasing Cd amendment of the manure but showed no difference between the two manure application rates. Cd concentrations in the grain, husk, and straw were significantly and positively correlated with soil DTPA-extractable Cd (p < 0.001). Within each level of manure Cd, the higher rate (3%) of manure produced lower Cd concentrations in the grain, husk, and straw on all three soils than did the lower rate (1%) after the first crop, but this no longer occurred after the growth of the second crop. Grain Cd concentrations exceeded the Chinese National Food Quality Standard (0.2 mg kg(-1)) most often on the loam, with intermediate frequency on the silt loam, and least often on the sandy loam, the soil with the highest pH and lowest organic carbon content and cation exchange capacity.
22190019	Negative climate impacts on crop yield increase pressures on food security in China. In this study, climatic impacts on cereal yields (rice, wheat and maize) were investigated by analyzing climate-yield relationships from 1980 to 2008. Results indicated that warming was significant, but trends in precipitation and solar radiation were not statistically significant in most of China. In general, maize is particularly sensitive to warming. However, increase in temperature was correlated with both lower and higher yield of rice and wheat, which is inconsistent with the current view that warming results in decline in yields. Of the three cereal crops, further analysis suggested that reduction in yields with higher temperature is accompanied by lower precipitation, which mainly occurred in northern parts of China, suggesting droughts reduced yield due to lack of water resources. Similarly, a positive correlation between temperature and yield can be alternatively explained by the effect of solar radiation, mainly in the southern part of China where water resources are abundant. Overall, our study suggests that it is inter-annual variations in precipitation and solar radiation that have driven change in cereal yields in China over the last three decades.
22191216	To study the effects of mandelic acid (MA) on the brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, the survival rate and behaviour of BPH fed on an artificial diet with different dosages of MA was observed. The survival rate of BPH decreased with the increase of the MA concentration and feeding time. In contrast to the control, the survival rate of BPH 72 h after feeding decreased significantly. Electrical penetration graph (EPG) data indicated that MA absorbed by the rice plant from Kimura B solution significantly affected the feeding behaviour of BPH. At the concentrations of 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/ml, duration of the phloem ingestion of BPH decreased from 115.34 min (control) to 30.41, 7.63, and 0.36 min, respectively. Periods of xylem ingestion of MA-treated BPH were significantly shorter than those of the control (50.44 min). Moreover, BPH spent more time walking around or being at rest on MA-treated rice plants, as well as in stylet activities. The GST (glutathione S-transferase) activity of BPH increased with the increasing MA concentration, while the GPX (glutathione peroxidases) activity did not change significantly. The results indicate that MA has an antifeedant and insecticidal effect on BPH.
2219133	An epidemiological study to evaluate cadmium-induced renal dysfunction by urinary metallothionein levels was carried out in an environmentally-exposed Japanese population. The study population consisted of 3168 men and women from a cadmium-polluted area who were 50 years and older and 291 individuals from a non-polluted area. The mean metallothionein levels in urine of the control population were 138.2 +/- 2.1 and 198.6 +/- 1.9 microgram/g creatinine for men and women, respectively. The corresponding values for the cadmium-exposed population were 157.8 +/- 2.2 and 248.0 +/- 2.2. The 97.5% upper limits for men in the control population was determined to be 638 and for women 693 microgram MT/g creatinine. Based on these values as the cut-off levels, the prevalence of metallothioneinuria was calculated to be 4.6% in men and 8.4% in women from the cadmium-polluted area. Further selection of the population, based on life-time residence in the polluted area accompanied with the consumption of cadmium-containing rice, showed an even greater prevalence of metallothioneinuria: 5.4% in men and 10.9% in women of all ages. The prevalence of metallothioneinuria increased with age and duration of residence in the polluted area. These results suggest that metallothioneinuria can be used as an indicator of renal dysfunction due to environmental cadmium exposure.
22193553	Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis in humans mainly through consumption of ready-to-eat foods. Immunocompromised persons, the elderly, and pregnant women and their fetuses or newborns are at highest risk for the infection. To isolate probiotic lactic acid bacteria (LAB) with inhibitory effects against L. monocytogenes, we screened for acid and bile resistant LABs from narezushi, a traditional salted and long-fermented fish with cooked rice. Then, inhibitory effects of the selected LABs on L. monocytogenes invasion and infection of human enterocyte Caco-2 cells and Listeria-susceptible A/J mice were determined. From a total of 231 LAB isolates, we selected five acid and bile resistant isolates (four were Lactobacillus plantarum and one was Leuconostoc mesenteroides). Among the five isolates, Ln. mesenteroides (Lnm-1RM3) showed the highest inhibition against L. monocytogenes invasion into Caco-2 cells. In the case of L. monocytogenes orally infected A/J mice, recovery of the pathogen from the spleen was suppressed by drinking water containing 9 log CFU/ml of Lnm-1RM3 cells. The inhibitory effects were also shown by heat-killed Lnm-1RM3 cells. These results suggest that live and also heat-killed Lnm-1RM3 cell intake might prevent L. monocytogenes entero-gastric invasion and infection.
22194018	The present investigation evaluated the ability of an antioxidative defense system in terms of the tolerance against salinity-induced oxidative stress and also explored a possible relationship between the status of the components of an antioxidative defense system and the salt tolerance in Indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes. When the seedlings of a salt-sensitive cultivar was grown in sand cultures containing different NaCl concentrations (7 and 14 dS m(-1)) for 5-20 days, a substantial increase was observed in the rate of superoxide anion (O (2) (·-)) production, elevated levels of H(2)O(2) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) which indicated an enhancement in lipid peroxidation. A declination in the level of thiol clearly indicated an increase in the protein oxidation as well as a decline in the reduced forms of ascorbate (AsA) and glutathione (GSH) and the ratios of their reduced to oxidized forms occurred in the salt-sensitive seedlings. Similar treatment caused a very little alteration or no change in the levels of these components in the seedlings of salt-tolerant cultivar. The activity of antioxidative enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), its isoform Cu/Zn-SOD and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) increased in both the cultivars against salinity. In salt-sensitive seedlings, the activity of the various enzymes, guaiacol peroxidase (GPX), catalase (CAT), monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR), dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), and glutathione reductase (GR) increased at moderate salinity treatment of 7 dS m(-1) NaCl while the activities of these enzymes declined with higher salinity level of 14 dS m(-1) NaCl. However, a consistent increase was observed in the activities of these enzymes of salt-tolerant seedlings with an increase in the duration and the level of the salinity treatment. The results suggest that a higher status of antioxidants (AsA and GSH) and a coordinated higher activity of the enzymes (SOD, CAT, GPX, APX, and GR) can serve as the major determinants in the model for depicting salt tolerance in Indica rice seedlings.
22194299	Viable methanogens have been detected in dry, aerobic environments such as dry reservoir sediment, dry rice paddies and aerobic desert soils, which suggests that methanogens have mechanisms for long-term survival in a desiccated state. In this study, we quantified the survival rates of the methanogenic archaeon Methanosarcina barkeri after desiccation under conditions equivalent to the driest environments on Earth and subsequent exposure to different stress factors. There was no significant loss of viability after desiccation for 28 days for cells grown with either hydrogen or the methylotrophic substrates, but recovery was affected by growth phase, with cells desiccated during the stationary phase of growth having a higher rate of recovery after desiccation. Synthesis of methanosarcinal extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) significantly increased the viability of desiccated cells under both anaerobic and aerobic conditions compared with that of non-EPS-synthesizing cells. Desiccated M. barkeri exposed to air at room temperature did not lose significant viability after 28 days, and exposure of M. barkeri to air after desiccation appeared to improve the recovery of viable cells compared with that of desiccated cells that were never exposed to air. Desiccated M. barkeri was more resistant to higher temperatures, and although resistance to oxidative conditions such as ozone and ionizing radiation was not as robust as in other desiccation-resistant microorganisms, the protection mechanisms are likely adequate to maintain cell viability during periodic exposure events. The results of this study demonstrate that after desiccation M. barkeri has the innate capability to survive extended periods of exposure to air and lethal temperatures.
22194453	The bacterium Vibrio cholerae colonizes the human small intestine and secretes cholera toxin (CT) to cause the rice-watery diarrhea characteristic of this illness. The ability of this pathogen to colonize the small bowel, express CT, and return to the aquatic environment is controlled by a complex network of regulatory proteins. Two global regulators that participate in this process are the histone-like nucleoid structuring protein (H-NS) and the general stress response regulator RpoS. In this study, we address the role of RpoS and H-NS in the coordinate regulation of motility and hemagglutinin (HA)/protease expression. In addition to initiating transcription of hapA encoding HA/protease, RpoS enhanced flrA and rpoN transcription to increase motility. In contrast, H-NS was found to bind to the flrA, rpoN, and hapA promoters and represses their expression. The strength of H-NS repression at the above-mentioned promoters was weaker for hapA, which exhibited the strongest RpoS dependency, suggesting that transcription initiation by RNA polymerase containing σ(S) could be more resistant to H-NS repression. Occupancy of the flrA and hapA promoters by H-NS was demonstrated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). We show that the expression of RpoS in the stationary phase significantly diminished H-NS promoter occupancy. Furthermore, RpoS enhanced the transcription of integration host factor (IHF), which positively affected the expression of flrA and rpoN by diminishing the occupancy of H-NS at these promoters. Altogether, we propose a model for RpoS regulation of motility gene expression that involves (i) attenuation of H-NS repression by IHF and (ii) RpoS-dependent transcription initiation resistant to H-NS.
22194700	A novel result of the current research is the development and implementation of a unique functional phylogenomic approach that explores the genomic origins of seed plant diversification. We first use 22,833 sets of orthologs from the nuclear genomes of 101 genera across land plants to reconstruct their phylogenetic relationships. One of the more salient results is the resolution of some enigmatic relationships in seed plant phylogeny, such as the placement of Gnetales as sister to the rest of the gymnosperms. In using this novel phylogenomic approach, we were also able to identify overrepresented functional gene ontology categories in genes that provide positive branch support for major nodes prompting new hypotheses for genes associated with the diversification of angiosperms. For example, RNA interference (RNAi) has played a significant role in the divergence of monocots from other angiosperms, which has experimental support in Arabidopsis and rice. This analysis also implied that the second largest subunit of RNA polymerase IV and V (NRPD2) played a prominent role in the divergence of gymnosperms. This hypothesis is supported by the lack of 24nt siRNA in conifers, the maternal control of small RNA in the seeds of flowering plants, and the emergence of double fertilization in angiosperms. Our approach takes advantage of genomic data to define orthologs, reconstruct relationships, and narrow down candidate genes involved in plant evolution within a phylogenomic view of species' diversification.
22194805	The origin and evolution of microRNA (miRNA) genes, which are of significance in tuning and buffering gene expressions in a number of critical cellular processes, have long attracted evolutionary biologists. However, genome-wide perspectives on their origins, potential mechanisms of their de novo generation and subsequent evolution remain largely unsolved in flowering plants. Here, genome-wide analyses of Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana revealed apparently divergent patterns of miRNA gene origins. A large proportion of miRNA genes in O. sativa were TE-related and MITE-related miRNAs in particular, whereas the fraction of these miRNA genes much decreased in A. thaliana. Our results show that the majority of TE-related and pseudogene-related miRNA genes have originated through inverted duplication instead of segmental or tandem duplication events. Based on the presented findings, we hypothesize and illustrate the four likely molecular mechanisms to de novo generate novel miRNA genes from TEs and pseudogenes. Our rice genome analysis demonstrates that non-MITEs and MITEs mediated inverted duplications have played different roles in de novo generating miRNA genes. It is confirmed that the previously proposed inverted duplication model may give explanations for non-MITEs mediated duplication events. However, many other miRNA genes, known from the earlier proposed model, were rather arisen from MITE transpositions into target genes to yield binding sites. We further investigated evolutionary processes spawned from de novo generated to maturely-formed miRNA genes and their regulatory systems. We found that miRNAs increase the tunability of some gene regulatory systems with low gene copy numbers. The results also suggest that gene balance effects may have largely contributed to the evolution of miRNA regulatory systems.
22194889	The pathology of diabetic neuropathy involves oxidative stress on pancreatic β-cells, and is related to decreased levels of Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Acylated steryl β-glucoside (PR-ASG) found in pre-germiated brown rice is a bioactive substance exhibiting properties that enhance activity of homocysteine-thiolactonase (HTase), reducing oxidative stress in diabetic neuropathy. The biological importance of PR-ASG in pancreatic β-cells remains unknown. Here we examined the effects of PR-ASG on IGF-1 and glucose metabolism in β-cells exposed to oxidative stress. In the present study, a pre-germinated brown rice (PR)-diet was tested in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Compared with diabetic rats fed control diets, the PR-diet fed rats showed an improvement of serum metabolic and neurophysiological parameters. In addition, IGF-1 levels were found to be increased in the serum, liver, and pancreas of diabetic rats fed the PR-diet. The increased IGF-1 level in the pancreas led us to hypothesize that PR-ASG is protective for islet β-cells against the extensive injury of advanced or severe diabetes. Thus we examined PR-ASG to determine whether it showed anti-apoptotic, pro-proliferative effects on the insulin-secreting β-cells line, INS-1; and additionally, whether PR-ASG stimulated IGF-1 autocrine secretion/IGF-1-dependent glucose metabolism. We have demonstrated for the first time that PR-ASG increases IGF-1 production and secretion from pancreatic β-cells. These findings suggest that PR-ASG may affect pancreatic β-cells through the activation of an IGF-1-dependent mechanism in the diabetic condition. Thus, intake of pre-germinated brown rice may have a beneficial effect in the treatment of diabetes, in particular diabetic neuropathy.
22195579	The study evaluated effects of drought on some agro-morphological traits of 60 rice genotypes comprising 54 introgression lines with their parents, IR 64 (Oryza sativa) and TOG 5681 (Oryza glaberrima) and four NERICA-L varieties developed from the same parents for comparison. The genotypes were subjected either to full irrigation from sowing to maturity (control) or to 21-day drought applied by stopping irrigation from the 45th day after sowing (DAS) onward (drought) in the dry seasons of 2006 and 2007-2008. Plant height, spikelet fertility, grain yield and leaf area at harvesting were consistently reduced by drought in both seasons. Values of leaf temperature, leaf rolling, leaf tip drying, leaf blast, days from seeding to flowering and maturity were higher under drought. The results on SPAD and number of tillers were not consistent. Significant relationship (P<0.05) was observed between all traits evaluated and grain yield under drought. Introgression lines, SEN-L13-2, MPL-15-3, SEN-L10-1, SEN-L26-3 and SEN-L21-2 showed significantly higher yield than the highest yield NERICA-L variety (all of them had higher yield than the parents). Among them, SEN-L13-2 showed the lowest yield loss by drought and MPL-15-3 had high yield potential and considerably low yield loss by drought.
22195580	Laccases constitute a multi-gene family of multi-copper glycoproteins. The barley laccase-like multicopper oxidase (LMCO) gene structure, the DNA sequence polymorphism and putative protein have not yet been described. As part of the study of LMCO in cereals, we have characterized the genomic structure of the putative LMCO gene HvLac1 from the barley variety 'Morex' and mapped HvLac1 on chromosome 4H. The genomic sequence of the HvLac1 gene is 2646 bp long and covers 100% of the coding region. It contains four exons and three introns. In this study, we have described the HvLac1 gene nucleotide polymorphisms (In/Del) in 134 barley varieties. Initial characterization of the barley and rice LMCO and the phylogeny analysis indicate that a monocot LMCO family is composed of five members. There are two high pI isoforms of putative HvLac1 protein derived from two in frame translation start codons with 602aa or 592aa residues. Isoforms differ in their predicted subcellular localization and both isoforms are characterized on C-terminus by the presence of the KDEL-like motif, which contributes to the accumulation of soluble proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Our results suggest that this unique feature of HvLac1 could be important for their role in physiological processes.
22195590	A T-DNA insertional mutant OsAPC6 of rice, with gibberellic acid insensitivity and reduced height, had up to 45% reduced seed set. The insertion occurred on chromosome 3 of rice in the gene encoding one of the subunits of anaphase promoting complex/Cyclosome APC6. The primary mother cells of the mutant plants had normal meiosis, male gametophyte development and pollen viability. Confocal laser scanning microscopic (CLSM) studies of megagametophyte development showed abnormal mitotic divisions with reduced number or total absence of polar nuclei in about 30-35% megagametophytes of OsAPC6 mutant leading to failure of endosperm and hence embryo and seed development. Abnormal female gametophyte development, high sterility and segregation of tall and gibberellic acid sensitive plants without selectable marker Hpt in the selfed progeny of OsAPC6 mutant plants indicate that the mutant could be maintained in heterozygous condition. The abnormal mitotic divisions during megagametogenesis could be attributed to the inactivation of the APC6/CDC16 of anaphase promoting complex of rice responsible for cell cycle progression during megagametogenesis. Functional validation of the candidate gene through transcriptome profiling and RNAi is in progress.
22195592	Since tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) is an anemophilous (wind-pollinated) grass species, male sterility is strongly desired for transgenic tall fescue to prevent pollen dispersal. To create male-sterile tall fescue, we applied Chimeric REpressor gene-Silencing Technology (CRES-T) based on rice APETALA3 (AP3) and AGAMOUS (AG) orthologues that specify the formation of stamens. We fused the coding regions of rice AP3 orthologue SUPERWOMAN1 (SPW1), and rice AG orthologues, Os12g0207000, Os01g0886200 and OsMADS58, respectively with the artificial sequence encoding the modified EAR-like motif repression domain (SRDX). We first introduced Os12g0207000SRDX, Os01g0886200SRDX and OsMADS58SRDX into rice for evaluation of their abilities to induce male sterility. The transgenic rice expressing OsMADS58SRDX had reiterated formation of lodicule-like organs instead of stamens and carpel, a typical phenotype of ag mutant. Thus, we found that OsMADS58SRDX was most suitable for our purpose. Next, we introduced SPW1SRDX and OsMADS58SRDX into tall fescue. Although the transgenic tall fescue did not have the stamen alterations seen in SPW1SRDX and OsMADS58SRDX rice, they either produced no pollen or produced immature pollen; thus, the anthers were not dehiscent and the plants were male-sterile. In addition to the male sterility, SPW1SRDX tall fescue showed a cleistogamous (closed) phenotype in which anthers were not observed outside the glumes, with thin, abnormally elongated lodicules. Some lines of OsMADS58SRDX tall fescue showed a cleistogamous phenotype in which the lodicules were homeotically transformed into lemma-like organs. In both cases, cleistogamous phenotype was associated with morphological changes to the lodicules. We also obtained a mild phenotype of OsMADS58SRDX tall fescue, which exhibited only the male sterility. In this study, we produced novel male-sterile phenotypes using chimeric repressors and thus suggest CRES-T as a tool for transgenic improvement of forage and turf grasses.
22195763	The analytical method for the residues of chlorpyrifos in rice plants, water and soil was developed and dissipation of chlorpyrifos under field conditions was studied. The limit of detection (LOD) of chlorpyrifos was 0.006 mg kg(-1) and the limit of quantification (LOQ) was found to be 0.04 mg kg(-1) in rice plant (water) and 0.02 mg kg(-1) in the other substrates, respectively. The results showed that the initial residues of chlorpyrifos in Nanjing and Guangxi were 4.99 and 6.05 mg kg(-1) (rice plant), 1.35 and 1.58 mg kg(-1) (water) and 0.51 and 0.63 mg kg(-1) (soil), respectively. The half-lives of chlorpyrifos in rice plant, water and soil from Nanjing were 4.28, 0.58 and 1.35 day, respectively, and the half-lives of those from Guangxi were 3.86, 0.52 and 1.21 day, respectively. The husked rice, rice hull and straw samples were found to contain chlorpyrifos well below the maximum residue limit (MRL) following the recommended dosage, the residues of chlorpyrifos in soil were undetectable under all application levels and frequencies after 28 day of applications.
22196402	Soil salinity is one of the major abiotic stresses affecting plant growth and crop production. In the present study, salt tolerance at rice seedling stage was evaluated using 87 introgression lines (ILs), which were derived from a cross between an elite indica cultivar Teqing and an accession of common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.). Substantial variation was observed for four traits including salt tolerance score (STS), relative root dry weight (RRW), relative shoot dry weight (RSW) and relative total dry weight (RTW). STS was significantly positively correlated with all other three traits. A total of 15 putative quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with these four traits were detected using single-point analysis, which were located on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 9 and 10 with 8%-26% explaining the phenotypic variance. The O. rufipogon-derived alleles at 13 QTLs (86.7%) could improve the salt tolerance in the Teqing background. Four QTL clusters affecting RRW, RSW and RTW were found on chromosomes 6, 7, 9 and 10, respectively. Among these four QTL clusters, a major cluster including three QTLs (qRRW10, qRSW10 and qRTW10) was found near the maker RM271 on the long arm of chromosome 10, and the O. rufipogon-derived alleles at these three loci increased RRW, RSW and RTW with additive effects of 22.7%, 17.3% and 18.5%, respectively, while the phenotypic variance explained by these three individual QTLs for the three traits varied from 19% to 26%. In addition, several salt tolerant ILs were selected and could be used for identifying and utilizing favorable salt tolerant genes from common wild rice and used in the salt tolerant rice breeding program.
22196403	Chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) are useful for the precise mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and dissection of the genetic basis of complex traits. In this study, two whole-genome sequenced rice cultivars, the japonica Nipponbare and indica 9311 were used as recipient and donor, respectively. A population with 57 CSSLs was developed after crossing and back-crossing assisted by molecular markers, and genotypes were identified using a high-throughput resequencing strategy. Detailed graphical genotypes of 38 lines were constructed based on resequencing data. These CSSLs had a total of 95 substituted segments derived from indica 9311, with an average of about 2.5 segments per CSSL and eight segments per chromosome, and covered about 87.4% of the rice whole genome. A multiple linear regression QTL analysis mapped four QTLs for 1000-grain weight. The largest-effect QTL was located in a region on chromosome 5 that contained a cloned major QTL GW5/qSW5 for grain size in rice. These CSSLs with a background of Nipponbare may provide powerful tools for future whole-genome discovery and functional study of essential genes/QTLs in rice, and offer ideal materials and foundations for japonica breeding.
22196587	Sequencing of cDNA clones from plant tissue to generate expressed sequence tags (ESTs) is an effective tool for gene discovery. Together with powerful bioinformatics tools, EST sequences allow the prediction of functions of putative bioactive compounds that can later be confirmed. To isolate a detoxification enzyme from an EST library from the oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq. Arecaceae). In total, 750 clones from an oil palm cDNA library were randomly sequenced and analyzed. A clone homologous to cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450) was selected from the list of highly expressed genes. The full-length cDNA of P450 from E. guineensis (EgP450) was generated and transformed into a bacterial host to produce recombinant protein. A 3D model of EgP450 was generated and used in a molecular docking analysis to screen for target herbicide substrates. Finally, the detoxification activity of EgP450 was confirmed by an herbicide tolerance test with rice seedlings. The full-length EgP450 has an open reading frame (ORF) of 1515 bp that encodes a protein of 505 amino acids. Docking analysis showed that EgP450 bound to phenylurea-like herbicides such as isoproturon, chlortoluron and fluometuron. The herbicide tolerance test demonstrated that the presence of EgP450 protected the rice seedlings from the killing action of the phytotoxic agent isoproturon. The gene EgP450 was detected in the roots and stems of oil palm tissues, and its recombinant product was shown to protect rice seedlings from exogenous herbicides of the phenylurea family.
22196797	Interaction between the coiled-coil domain of rice blast resistance protein Pi36 and methyl-jasmonate (MeJA) was studied by fluorescence and UV-vis spectroscopic techniques. The quenching mechanism of fluorescence of MeJA by this domain was discussed to be a static quenching procedure. Fluorescence quenching was explored to measure the number of binding sites n and apparent binding constants K. The thermodynamics parameters ΔH, ΔG, ΔS were also calculated. The results indicate the binding reaction was not entropy-driven but enthalpy-driven, and hydrophobic binding played major role in the interaction. The binding sites of MeJA with the coiled-coil structural domain of rice blast resistance protein Pi36 were found to approach the microenvironment of both Tyr and Trp by the synchronous fluorescence spectrometry. The distance r between donor (the coiled-coil domain of rice blast resistance protein Pi36) and acceptor (MeJA) was obtained according to Förster theory of non-radioactive energy transfer.
22196800	An essential step in the biosynthesis of bioactive brassinosteroids (BRs) in plants is the hydroxylation at C-22, a reaction catalyzed by P450 enzymes of the CYP90B and CYP724B subfamilies. Genes for both types of enzymes are present in many species, and in rice (Oryza sativa) and tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) both CYP90B and CYP724B enzymes contribute to C-22 hydroxylation. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), C-22 hydroxylation of BRs is catalyzed by CYP90B1 (encoded by DWF4) and null dwf4 mutants show severe symptoms of BR-deficiency. CYP724A1 (At5g14400), an Arabidopsis gene of unknown function and limited expression, encodes a P450 sharing less than 55% sequence identity to CYP724B proteins. We used transgenic plants of the null mutants dwf4-102 and a novel allele, bashful (bsf), ectopically expressing the CYP724A1 gene to investigate the potential activity of CYP724A1 as a C-22 hydroxylase of BRs. Defects associated with BR deficiency were reversed and a normal growth habit restored in transgenic dwf4-102 and bsf plants overexpressing CYP724A1. The vegetative phase was prolonged and the transgenic plants were on average larger than wild type plants with respect to several morphometric parameters. Fertility was restored in the transgenic plants but individual siliques yielded fewer and heavier seeds than those of wild type plants. The implications of these findings with regard to the functions of CYP724A1 and the activity of its encoded enzyme are discussed.
22196946	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is considered a signal molecule inducing cellular stress. Both heat shock (HS) and Cd can increase H2O2 content. We investigated the involvement of H2O2 in HS- and Cd-mediated changes in the expression of ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and glutathione reductase (GR) in leaves of rice seedlings. HS treatment increased the content of H2O2 before it increased activities of APX and GR in rice leaves. Moreover, HS-induced H2O2 production and APX and GR activities could be counteracted by the NADPH oxidase inhibitors dipehenylene iodonium (DPI) and imidazole (IMD). HS-induced OsAPX2 gene expression was associated with HS-induced APX activity but was not regulated by H2O2. Cd-increased H2O2 content and APX and GR activities were lower with than without HS. Cd did not increase the expression of OsAPX and OsGR without HS treatment. Cd increased H2O2 content by Cd before it increased APX and GR activities without HS. Treatment with DPI and IMD effectively inhibited Cd-induced H2O2 production and APX and GR activities. Moreover, the effects of DPI and IMD could be rescued with H2O2 treatment. H2O2 may be involved in the regulation of HS- and Cd-increased APX and GR activities in leaves of rice seedlings.
22198147	Imprinting describes the differential expression of alleles based on their parent of origin. Deep sequencing of RNAs from maize (Zea mays) endosperm and embryo tissue 14 d after pollination was used to identify imprinted genes among a set of ~12,000 genes that were expressed and contained sequence polymorphisms between the B73 and Mo17 genotypes. The analysis of parent-of-origin patterns of expression resulted in the identification of 100 putative imprinted genes in maize endosperm, including 54 maternally expressed genes (MEGs) and 46 paternally expressed genes (PEGs). Three of these genes have been previously identified as imprinted, while the remaining 97 genes represent novel imprinted maize genes. A genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation identified regions with reduced endosperm DNA methylation in, or near, 19 of the 100 imprinted genes. The reduced levels of DNA methylation in endosperm are caused by hypomethylation of the maternal allele for both MEGs and PEGs in all cases tested. Many of the imprinted genes with reduced DNA methylation levels also show endosperm-specific expression patterns. The imprinted maize genes were compared with imprinted genes identified in genome-wide screens of rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana, and at least 10 examples of conserved imprinting between maize and each of the other species were identified.
22198727	Drought is a major abiotic stress limiting rice production and yield stability in rainfed ecosystems. Identifying quantitative trait loci (QTL) for rice yield and yield components under water limited environments will help to develop drought resilient cultivars using marker assisted breeding (MAB) strategy. A total of 232 recombinant inbred lines of IR62266/Norungan were used to map QTLs for plant phenology and production traits under rainfed condition in target population of environments. A total of 79 QTLs for plant phenology and production traits with phenotypic variation ranging from 4.4 to 72.8% were detected under non-stress and drought stress conditions across two locations. Consistent QTLs for phenology and production traits were detected across experiments and water regimes. The QTL region, RM204-RM197-RM217 on chromosome 6 was linked to days to 50% flowering and grain yield per plant under both rainfed and irrigated conditions. The same genomic region, RM585-RM204-RM197 was also linked to harvest index under rainfed condition with positive alleles from Norungan, a local landrace. QTLs for plant production and drought resistance traits co-located near RM585-RM204-RM197-RM217 region on chromosome 6 in several rice genotypes. Thus with further fine mapping, this region may be useful as a candidate QTL for MAB, map-based cloning of genes and functional genomics studies for rainfed rice improvement.
22199238	Protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a fundamental process in plant cells that is vulnerable to many environmental stresses. When unfolded or misfolded proteins accumulate in the ER, the well-conserved unfolded protein response (UPR) is initiated to mitigate the ER stress by enhancing the protein folding capability and/or accelerating the ER-associated protein degradation. Here, we report the conservation of the activation mechanism of OsbZIP74 (also known as OsbZIP50), an important ER stress regulator in monocot plant rice (Oryza sativa L.). Under normal conditions, OsbZIP74 mRNA encodes a basic leucine-zipper transcription factor with a putative transmembrane domain. When treating with ER stress-inducing agents such as tunicamycin and DTT, the conserved double stem-loop structures of OsbZIP74 mRNA are spliced out. Thereafter, the resulting new OsbZIP74 mRNA produces the nucleus-localized form of OsbZIP74 protein, eliminating the hydrophobic region. The activated form of OsbZIP74 has transcriptional activation activity in both yeast cells and Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. The induction of OsbZIP74 splicing is much suppressed in the OsIRE1 knock-down rice plants, indicating the involvement of OsIRE1 in OsbZIP74 splicing. We also demonstrate that the unconventional splicing of OsbZIP74 mRNA is associated with heat stress and salicylic acid, which is an important plant hormone in systemic acquired resistance against pathogen or parasite.
22199373	Casein kinase I (CKI) is a protein serine/threonine kinase that is highly conserved from plants to animals. It performs various functions in both the cytoplasm and nucleus, such as DNA repair, cell cycle, cytokinesis, vesicular trafficking, morphogenesis and circadian rhythm. CKI proteins contain a highly conserved kinase domain responsible for catalytic activity at the N-terminus and a highly diverse regulatory domain responsible for determining substrate specificity at the C-terminus. CKI-like protein has been identified in plants, including in rice, but its function and structure have not been reported. Here, we report the 2.0 Å crystal structure of the kinase domain of CKI-like protein from rice. Although the structure adopts the typical bi-lobal kinase architecture, the length and orientation of the glycine-rich ATP-binding motif are dynamic within the CKI family. A loop between α5 and α6 (the α5-α6 loop), which was previously not detected in the CKI family because of flexibility, was clearly detected in our structure. In addition, we identified a lipase as a substrate of CKI-like protein from rice. Phosphorylation of the lipase dramatically reduced its catalytic activity, suggesting that CKI may play a role in the regulation of lipase activity.
22200664	The antagonism between abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellin (GA) plays a key role in controlling seed germination, but the mechanism of antagonism during this process is not known. The possible links among ABA, reactive oxygen species (ROS), ascorbic acid (ASC), and GA during rice seed germination were investigated. Unlike in non-seed tissues where ROS production is increased by ABA, ABA reduced ROS production in imbibed rice seeds, especially in the embryo region. Such reduced ROS also led to an inhibition of ASC production. GA accumulation was also suppressed by a reduced ROS and ASC level, which was indicated by the inhibited expression of GA biosynthesis genes, amylase genes, and enzyme activity. Application of exogenous ASC can partially rescue seed germination from ABA treatment. Production of ASC, which acts as a substrate in GA biosynthesis, was significantly inhibited by lycorine which thus suppressed the accumulation of GA. Consequently, expression of GA biosynthesis genes was suppressed by the low levels of ROS and ASC in ABA-treated seeds. It can be concluded that ABA regulates seed germination in multiple dimensions. ROS and ASC are involved in its inhibition of GA biosynthesis.
22200747	An LC-MS/MS method for analysis of cereulide, an emetic toxin produced by Bacillus cereus, was developed. Cereulide was extracted from samples, fried rice, pan-fried noodles, red bean paste and baby formula, with methanol and purified using Oasis HLB cartridges. LC separation was performed on a C18 column with a mixture of formic acid solution and methanol containing ammonium formate as a mobile phase, and the mass spectrometer was operated in the positive electrospray ionization mode. Performance evaluation showed that trueness was higher than 70% and repeatability and reproducibility were within 10%. The limits of quantification were lower than 1 µg/kg.
22201023	The ubiquitin-26S proteasome system is important in the quality control of intracellular proteins. The ubiquitin-26S proteasome system includes the E1 (ubiquitin activating), E2 (ubiquitin conjugating), and E3 (ubiquitin ligase) enzymes. U-box proteins are a derived version of RING-finger domains, which have E3 enzyme activity. Here, we present the isolation of a novel U-box protein, U-box containing E3 ligase induced by phosphate starvation (OsUPS), from rice (Oryza sativa). The cDNA encoding the O. sativa U-box protein (OsUPS) comprises 1338 bp, with an open reading frame of 445 amino acids. The amino acid sequence of OsUPS cDNA shows 41-79% identity with other plant U-box homologous genes. The open reading frame of the OsUPS protein is comprised of notable domains: a single ~70-amino acid domain and a GKL domain that contains conserved glycine, lysine/arginine residues and leucine-rich feature. We found that full-length expression of OsUPS was up-regulated in both rice plants and cell culture in the absence of inorganic phosphate (P(i)). A self-ubiquitination assay indicated that the bacterially expressed OsUPS protein had E3 ligase activity, and subcellular localization results showed that OsUPS was located in the chloroplast. These results support the notion that OsUPS plays an important role in the P(i) signaling pathway through the ubiquitin-26S proteasome system.
22202562	A thorough understanding of the contexts of sexual behaviour of the people who are vulnerable to HIV infection is an important component in the battle against AIDS epidemic. We conducted a qualitative study to investigate perceptions, attitudes and practices of sexually active people in three districts of northern Tanzania with the view of collecting data to inform the formulation of appropriate complementary interventions against HIV and AIDS in the study communities. We conducted 96 semi-structured interviews and 48 focus group discussions with sexually active participants (18-60 years of age) who were selected purposively in two fishing and one non-fishing communities. The study revealed a number of socio-economic and cultural factors which act as structural drivers of HIV epidemic. Mobility and migration were mentioned to be associated with the risk of HIV acquisition and transmission. Sexual promiscuous behaviour was common in all study communities. Chomolea, (a quick transactional sex) was reported to exist in fishing communities, whereas extramarital sex in the bush was reported in non-fishing community which was predominantly Christian and polygamous. Traditional practices such as Kusomboka (death cleansing through unprotected sex) was reported to exist. Other risky sexual behaviour and traditional practices together with their socio-economic and cultural contexts are presented in details and discussed. Knowledge of condom was low as some people mistook them for balloons to play with and as decorations for their living rooms. Acute scarcity of condoms in some remote areas such as vizingani (fishing islands) push some people to make their own condoms locally known as kondomu za pepsi using polythene bags. HIV prevention efforts can succeed by addressing sexual behaviour and its socio-economic and cultural contexts. More innovative, interdisciplinary and productive structural approaches to HIV prevention need to be developed in close collaboration with affected communities and be closely related to policy-making and implementation; to go beyond the limited success of traditional behavioural and biomedical interventions to particularly address the underlying social and structural drivers of HIV risk and vulnerability in the study communities.
22203474	The developmental regulation of grasses lemma and palea and their relationship to the floral organs in dicots had been variously explicated and extensively debated. Here, we characterized a triangular hull mutant th1-1 from EMS-mutagenized Oryza sativa ssp. indica cv. 93-11. The th1-1 mutant exhibited obviously triangular hull with tortuous and slender lemma/palea. Using a map-based cloning strategy, the TH1 gene was narrowed down to a 60-kb region on the long arm of chromosome 2. Sequence verification revealed that the th1-1 mutant harbored 1-bp deletion in exon 2 of LOC_Os02g56610 which resulted in a frame-shift mutation. The RNA-interference transgenic plants of LOC_Os02g56610 displayed a similar phenotype to the th1 mutant. Consequently, LOC_Os02g56610 was identified as the TH1 gene which encoded 248 amino acids and contained a DUF640 domain. RT-PCR analysis and GUS staining showed that the transcripts of TH1 mainly accumulated in young inflorescence, lemma and palea of spikelet. These results suggested that TH1 was an important gene controlling the lemma and palea development in rice.
22203552	Many seeds carry endophytes, which ensure good chances of seedling colonization. In this work, we have studied the seed-borne bacterial flora of rice varieties cultivated in the northeast of Argentina. Surface-sterilized husked seeds of the rice cultivars CT6919, El Paso 144, CAMBA, and IRGA 417 contained an average of 5×10(6) CFU/g of mesophilic and copiotrophic bacteria. Microbiological, physiological, and molecular characterization of a set of 39 fast-growing isolates from the CT6919 seeds revealed an important diversity of seed-borne mesophiles and potential plant probiotic activities, including diazotrophy and antagonism of fungal pathogens. In fact, the seed-borne bacterial flora protected the rice seedlings against Curvularia sp. infection. The root colonization pattern of 2 Pantoea isolates from the seeds was studied by fluorescence microscopy of the inoculated axenic rice seedlings. Both isolates strongly colonized the site of emergence of the lateral roots and lenticels, which may represent the entry sites for endophytic spreading. These findings suggest that rice plants allow grain colonization by bacterial species that may act as natural biofertilizers and bioprotectives early from seed germination.
22204644	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice. The XopR protein, secreted into plant cells through the type III secretion apparatus, is widely conserved in xanthomonads and is predicted to play important roles in bacterial pathogenicity. Here, we examined the function of XopR by constructing transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing it under control of the dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible promoter. In the transgenic plants treated with DEX, slightly delayed growth and variegation on leaves were observed. Induction of four microbe-associated molecular pattern (MAMP)-specific early-defense genes by a nonpathogenic X. campestris pv. campestris hrcC deletion mutant were strongly suppressed in the XopR-expressing plants. XopR expression also reduced the deposition of callose, an immune response induced by flg22. When transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana, a XopR::Citrine fusion gene product localized to the plasma membrane. The deletion of XopR in X. oryzae pv. oryzae resulted in reduced pathogenicity on host rice plants. Collectively, these results suggest that XopR inhibits basal defense responses in plants rapidly after MAMP recognition.
22204754	Several popular classification algorithms used to segment magnetic resonance brain images assume that the image intensities, or log-transformed intensities, satisfy a finite Gaussian mixture model. In these methods, the parameters of the mixture model are estimated and the posterior probabilities for each tissue class are used directly as soft segmentations or combined to form a hard segmentation. It is suggested and shown in this paper that a Rician mixture model fits the observed data better than a Gaussian model. Accordingly, a Rician mixture model is formulated and used within an expectation maximization (EM) framework to yield a new tissue classification algorithm called Rician Classifier using EM (RiCE). It is shown using both simulated and real data that RiCE yields comparable or better performance to that of algorithms based on the finite Gaussian mixture model. As well, we show that RiCE yields more consistent segmentation results when used on images of the same individual acquired with different T1-weighted pulse sequences. Therefore, RiCE has the potential to stabilize segmentation results in brain studies involving heterogeneous acquisition sources as is typically found in both multi-center and longitudinal studies.
22205044	The fate of chlorantraniliprole was studied in rice field ecosystem, and a simple and reliable analytical method was developed for determination of chlorantraniliprole in soil, rice straw, paddy water and brown rice. Chlorantraniliprole residues were extracted from samples with acetonitrile. The extract was cleaned up with QuEChERS (Quick, Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged and Safe) method, and determined by high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). The average recoveries were 76.9-82.4% from soil, 83.6-89.3% from rice straw, 95.2-103.1% from paddy water and 84.9-87.7% from brown rice. The relative standard deviation was less than 15%. The limits of detection (LODs) of chlorantraniliprole calculated as a sample concentration (S/N ratio of 3) were 0.012 μg L(-1) for paddy water, 0.15 μg kg(-1) for soil, brown rice and rice straw. The results of the kinetics study of chlorantraniliprole residue showed that chlorantraniliprole degradation in soil, water and rice straw coincided with C=0.01939e(-0.0434t), C=0.01425e(-0.8111t), and C=1.171e(-0.198t), respectively; the half-lives were about 16.0 d, 0.85 d and 3.50 d, respectively. The degradation rate of chlorantraniliprole in water was the fastest, followed by rice straw. The final residues of chlorantraniliprole on brown rice were lower than maximum residue limit (MRL) of 0.02 mg kg(-1) after 14 d Pre-Harvest Interval (PHI). Therefore, a dosage of 150 mL a.i.hm(-2) was recommended, which could be considered as safe to human beings and animals.
22205234	Although rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the most common cereals produced and consumed around the world, there have been only a few reports on immediate hypersensitivity reactions after ingestion of rice. Few clinical studies on rice allergy in Asia have been reported concerning rhinitis, asthma and atopic dermatitis. In this case study, we identify allergens presumably responsible for anaphylaxis after ingestion of rice in a German patient. Prick-to-prick tests, determination of specific IgE and the basophil activation test (BAT) were performed to confirm IgE-mediated allergy. IgE reactivity was further analyzed by immunoblotting of protein extracts from cooked commercial rice products. Rice allergens were purified, subjected to N-terminal sequencing and characterized by IgE binding and IgE inhibition assays using additional sera from 8 subjects with sensitization to rice and/or a history of hypersensitivity symptoms after rice ingestion. Prick-to-prick tests were positive to raw and cooked rice (basmati rice and long-grain rice) and preparations of different rice extracts. Specific IgE against rice (f9) was 1.87 kU(A)/l. The BAT showed specific IgE-mediated activation of basophils after stimulation with rice extracts. Four IgE-reactive rice proteins with an apparent molecular weight of 49, 52, 56 and 98 kDa were identified. Interestingly, only binding to the 56-kDa glycoprotein was at least partially independent from cross-reactive carbohydrate determinants (CCD), whereas IgE binding to the other rice proteins was completely inhibited by pre-incubation with the CCD MUXF derived from bromelain. Yet unidentified high-molecular-weight allergens from rice seeds, predominantly a 56-kDa glycoprotein, seem to be responsible for anaphylaxis after consumption of rice in a German patient.
22206457	Biogenic silica nanoparticles (25-30 nm in diameter) were synthesized from rice husks. The characterizations revealed that the silica nanoparticles were composed of smaller primary particles (ca. 4.2 nm in diameter), and their clustering led to a porous structure with a surface area of 164 m(2)/g. Under the controlled melting catalyzed by K(+), such silica nanoparticle clusters can gradually fuse to form semicrystalline porous silica frameworks with tunable pore size and structural integrity.
22206472	miRNAs are ~21 nucleotide long small noncoding RNA molecules, formed endogenously in most of the eukaryotes, which mainly control their target genes post transcriptionally by interacting and silencing them. While a lot of tools has been developed for animal miRNA target system, plant miRNA target identification system has witnessed limited development. Most of them have been centered around exact complementarity match. Very few of them considered other factors like multiple target sites and role of flanking regions. In the present work, a Support Vector Regression (SVR) approach has been implemented for plant miRNA target identification, utilizing position specific dinucleotide density variation information around the target sites, to yield highly reliable result. It has been named as p-TAREF (plant-Target Refiner). Performance comparison for p-TAREF was done with other prediction tools for plants with utmost rigor and where p-TAREF was found better performing in several aspects. Further, p-TAREF was run over the experimentally validated miRNA targets from species like Arabidopsis, Medicago, Rice and Tomato, and detected them accurately, suggesting gross usability of p-TAREF for plant species. Using p-TAREF, target identification was done for the complete Rice transcriptome, supported by expression and degradome based data. miR156 was found as an important component of the Rice regulatory system, where control of genes associated with growth and transcription looked predominant. The entire methodology has been implemented in a multi-threaded parallel architecture in Java, to enable fast processing for web-server version as well as standalone version. This also makes it to run even on a simple desktop computer in concurrent mode. It also provides a facility to gather experimental support for predictions made, through on the spot expression data analysis, in its web-server version. A machine learning multivariate feature tool has been implemented in parallel and locally installable form, for plant miRNA target identification. The performance was assessed and compared through comprehensive testing and benchmarking, suggesting a reliable performance and gross usability for transcriptome wide plant miRNA target identification.
22206592	Rice genome sequencing projects have generated remarkable amount of information about genes and genome architecture having tremendous potential to be utilized in both basic and applied research. Success in transgenics is paving the way for preparing a road map of functional genomics which is expected to correlate action of a gene to a trait in cellular and organismal context. However, the lack of a simple and efficient method for transformation and regeneration is a major constraint for such studies in this important cereal crop. In the present study, we have developed an easy, rapid and highly efficient transformation and regeneration protocol using mature seeds as explants and found its successful applicability to a choice of elite indica rice genotypes. We have optimized various steps of transformation and standardized different components of the regeneration medium including growth hormones and the gelling agent. The modified regeneration medium triggers production of large number of shoots from smaller number of calli and promotes their faster growth, hence significantly advantageous over the existing protocols where the regeneration step requires maximum time. Using this protocol, significantly higher transformation efficiency (up to 46%) and regeneration frequency (up to 92% for the untransformed calli and 59% for the transformed calli) were achieved for the four tested cultivars. We have used this protocol to produce hundreds of independent transgenic lines of different indica rice genotypes. Upon maturity, these transgenic lines were fertile thereby indicating that faster regeneration during tissue culture did not affect their reproductive potential. This speedy, yet less labor-intensive, protocol overcomes major limitations associated with genetic manipulation in rice. Moreover, our protocol uses mature seeds as the explant, which can easily be obtained in quantity throughout the year and kept viable for a long time. Such an easy, efficient and generalized protocol has the potential to be a major tool for crop improvement and gene-function studies on the model monocot plant rice.
22207283	This investigation was carried out based on the hypothesis that there may be some pseudomonad strains, which could exist in rhizosphere of plant species contributing multifaceted beneficial activities. For this purpose, 21 pseudomonad isolates from the rhizosphere of rice, cultivated in western parts of Tamil Nadu were screened. All the 21 isolates were authenticated as pseudomonads by a genus-specific PCR screening. The molecular diversity of these isolates was investigated by Amplified Ribosomal DNA Restriction Analysis (ARDRA) and the dendrogram obtained from the analysis revealed that all the 21 isolates clustered into seven groups. Further, these isolates were screened for plant growth promoting activities such as diazotrophy (PCR amplification of nifH gene and acetylene reduction assay), Indole acetic acid (IAA) and siderophore production (spectrometrically), 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) deaminase for ethylene regulation (PCR screening), mineral solubilization (biochemically) and antagonistic potential against soil pathogenic fungi (dual culture assay). Based on the results, two elite Pseudomonas isolates (S9 and O3) were chosen as multi-functional plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria, paving way for potential use as bioinoculants in rice.
22207384	There are many pleiotropic genes playing key roles in regulating both vegetative growth and reproductive development in plants. A dwarf mutant of rice with deformed flowers, named as ddf1, was identified from indica rice breeding lines. Genetic analysis indicated that ddf1 was resulted from the recessive mutation of a single gene, temporarily named as DDF1. This result suggested that DDF1 is a pleiotropic gene, which controls both vegetative growth and reproductive development in rice. To map this gene, an F2 population was developed by crossing the ddf1 heterozygote with the tropical japonica rice variety DZ60. By means of bulked segregant analysis and small population-based linkage analysis using the published RM-series rice SSR markers, DDF1 was preliminarily mapped in a region between markers RM588 and RM587 on chromosome 6 with the genetic distances of 3.8 cM and 2.4 cM to the two markers, respectively. By developing new SSR markers in this interval according to the published rice genome sequence, we further mapped DDF1 in a 165 kb interval. The results will facilitate cloning of DDF1.
22207574	Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinases (MAPKKKs), which function at the top level of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades, are clustered into three groups. However, no Group C Raf-like MAPKKKs have yet been functionally identified. We report here the characterization of a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant, increased leaf angle1 (ila1), resulting from a T-DNA insertion in a Group C MAPKKK gene. The increased leaf angle in ila1 is caused by abnormal vascular bundle formation and cell wall composition in the leaf lamina joint, as distinct from the mechanism observed in brassinosteroid-related mutants. Phosphorylation assays revealed that ILA1 is a functional kinase with Ser/Thr kinase activity. ILA1 is predominantly resident in the nucleus and expressed in the vascular bundles of leaf lamina joints. Yeast two-hybrid screening identified six closely related ILA1 interacting proteins (IIPs) of unknown function. Using representative IIPs, the interaction of ILA1 and IIPs was confirmed in vivo. IIPs were localized in the nucleus and showed transactivation activity. Furthermore, ILA1 could phosphorylate IIP4, indicating that IIPs may be the downstream substrates of ILA1. Microarray analyses of leaf lamina joints provided additional evidence for alterations in mechanical strength in ila1. ILA1 is thus a key factor regulating mechanical tissue formation at the leaf lamina joint.
22207741	Pantoea ananatis is the causative agent of sheath and grain rot in rice. Here, we present the complete genome sequence of P. ananatis strain PA13, originally isolated from a diseased rice grain.
22208101	Conservation of species in agroecosystems has attracted attention. Irrigation channels can improve habitats and offer conditions for freshwater species conservation. Two questions from biodiversity conservation point of view are: 1) Can the irrigated channels maintain a rich diversity of macrophytes, macroinvertebrates and amphibians over the cultivation cycle? 2) Do richness, abundance and composition of aquatic species change over the rice cultivation cycle? For this, a set of four rice field channels was randomly selected in Southern Brazilian wetlands. In each channel, six sample collection events were carried out over the rice cultivation cycle (June 2005 to June 2006). A total of 160 taxa were identified in irrigated channels, including 59 macrophyte species, 91 taxa of macroinvertebrate and 10 amphibian species. The richness and abundance of macrophytes, macroinvertebrates and amphibians did not change significantly over the rice cultivation cycle. However, the species composition of these groups in the irrigation channels varied between uncultivated and cultivated periods. Our results showed that the species diversity found in the irrigation channels, together with the permanence of water enables these man-made aquatic networks to function as important systems that can contribute to the conservation of biodiversity in regions where the wetlands were converted into rice fields. The conservation of the species in agriculture, such as rice field channels, may be an important alternative for biodiversity conservation in Southern Brazil, where more than 90% of wetland systems have already been lost and the remaining ones are still at high risk due to the expansion of rice production.
22208396	In this study, the adsorption of Cu(II) from aqueous solutions by agricultural by-products, such as rice husks, olive pomace and orange waste, as well as compost, was evaluated. The aim was to obtain sorbent materials (biochars) through hydrothermal treatment (300 °C) and pyrolysis (300 °C and 600 °C). The effect of adsorbent dose, pH, contact time and initial Cu(II) concentration in batch-mode experiments was investigated. The optimum Cu(II) adsorption conditions was found to occur at 5-12 g/L adsorbent dose, initial pH 5-6, and reaction time 2-4 h. Furthermore, the adsorption kinetics were best described by the pseudo-second order model for all the tested materials, while the adsorption equilibrium best fitted by the linear and Freundlich isotherms. Comparing rice husks and olive pomace, the higher adsorption capacity resulted after pyrolysis at 300 °C. With respect to the orange waste and compost, the highest adsorption capacity was observed using biochars obtained after hydrothermal treatment and pyrolysis at 300 °C.
22208615	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, is the most devastating rice pest in many areas throughout Asia. The reproductive system of female N. lugens consists of a pair of ovaries with 24-33 ovarioles per ovary in most individuals which determine its fecundity. The fork head (Fox) is a transcriptional regulatory molecule, which regulates and controls many physiological processes in eukaryotes. The Fox family has several subclasses and members, and several Fox factors have been reported to be involved in regulating fecundity. We have cloned a fork head gene in N. lugens. The full-length cDNA of NlFoxA is 1789 bp and has an open reading frame of 1143 bp, encoding a protein of 380 amino acids. Quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and Reverse Transcription- PCR (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that NlFoxA mRNA was mainly expressed in the fat body, midgut, cuticle and Malpighian tube, and was expressed continuously with little change during all the developmental stages. NlFoxA belongs to the FoxA subfamily of the Fox transcription factors. Knockdown of NlFoxA expression by RNAi using artificial diet containing double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) significantly decreased the number of offspring and impacted the development of ovaries. ELISA and Western blot analyses showed that feeding-based RNAi of NlFoxA gene also resulted in decreased expression of vitellogenin (Vg) protein. NlFoxA plays an important role in regulation of fecundity and development of ovaries in the BPH via regulating vitellogenin expression.
22209038	Plants use an intricate defense system against pests and pathogens, including the production of low molecular mass secondary metabolites with antimicrobial activity, which are synthesized de novo after stress and are collectively known as phytoalexins. In this review, we focus on the biosynthesis and regulation of camalexin, and its role in plant defense. In addition, we detail some of the phytoalexins produced by a range of crop plants from Brassicaceae, Fabaceae, Solanaceae, Vitaceae and Poaceae. This includes the very recently identified kauralexins and zealexins produced by maize, and the biosynthesis and regulation of phytoalexins produced by rice. Molecular approaches are helping to unravel some of the mechanisms and reveal the complexity of these bioactive compounds, including phytoalexin action and metabolism.
22209128	Effect of organic loading rate (OLR) on the continuous biological H(2) production from pretreated rice straw waste using a mesophilic up-flow anaerobic reactor (UAR) was investigated for 140 d. OLR was varied from 7.1 to 26 g COD/ld. H(2) yield was significantly increased from 95.5 to 117 mmol/d, when OLR was largely increased from 7.1 to 21.4 gCOD/ld, respectively. However, further increase in OLR up to 26 g COD/ld, showed a decreasing trend to 107.1 mmol/d. Likewise, H(2) production increased with OLR at the range of 7.1-21.4 g COD/ld, and reached the maximum H(2) production of 2.6l/d. However, the H(2) production started to decrease with the further increase of OLR, and dropped to 2.2l/d at OLR of 26 g COD/ld. The COD and carbohydrate removal efficiency were over 70% and 80% at OLRs of 7.1-21.4 g COD/ld, and decreased thereafter.
22209166	Heterosis is a common phenomenon in which the hybrids exhibit superior agronomic performance than either inbred parental lines. Although hybrid rice is one of the most successful apotheoses in crops utilizing heterosis, the molecular mechanisms underlying rice heterosis remain elusive. To gain a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of rice heterosis, comparative leaf proteomic analysis between a superhybrid rice LYP9 and its parental cultivars 9311 and PA64s at tillering, flowering and grain-filling stages were carried out. A total of 384 differentially expressed proteins (DP) were detected and 297 DP were identified, corresponding to 222 unique proteins. As DP were divided into those between the parents (DP(PP)) and between the hybrid and its parents (DP(HP)), the comparative results demonstrate that proteins in the categories of photosynthesis, glycolysis, and disease/defense were mainly enriched in DP. Moreover, the number of identified DP(HP) involved in photosynthesis, glycolysis, and disease/defense increased at flowering and grain-filling stages as compared to that at the tillering stage. Most of the up-regulated DP(HP) involved in the three categories showed greater expression in LYP9 at flowering and grain-filling stages than at the tillering stage. In addition, CO(2) assimilation rate and apparent quantum yield of photosynthesis also showed a greater increase in LYP9 at flowering and grain-filling stages than at the tillering stage. These results suggest that the proteins involved in photosynthesis, glycolysis, and disease/defense as well as their dynamic regulation at different developmental stages may be responsible for heterosis in rice.
22209251	Chlorpyrifos is the most common organophosphate insecticide registered for use in Vietnam and is widely used in agriculture, particularly rice farming. However, chlorpyrifos exposure to and adverse effects on farmers has not been evaluated. In this study, biological monitoring of chlorpyrifos exposure in a group of rice farmers was conducted after a typical application event using back-pack spraying. Urine samples (24 h) were collected from the rice farmers before and post insecticide application. Samples were analysed for 3,5,6-trichloropyridinol (TCP), the major urinary metabolite of chlorpyrifos, using an enzymatic pre-treatment before extraction followed by HPLC-MS/MS. Absorbed Daily Dose (ADD) of chlorpyrifos for farmers were then estimated from urinary TCP levels, expressed as μg g(-1)creatinine. The analytical method for urinary TCP had a low detection limit (0.6 μg L(-1)), acceptable recovery values (80-114%), and low relative percentage differences in duplicate and repeated samples. Post-application chlorpyrifos ADD of farmers varied from 0.4 to 94.2 μg kg(-1) (body weight) d(-1) with a mean of 19.4 μg kg(-1) d(-1) which was approximately 80-fold higher than the mean baseline exposure level (0.24 μg kg(-1) d(-1)). Hazard Quotients (ratio of the mean ADD for rice farmers to acute oral reference dose) calculated using acute oral reference doses recommended by United States and Australian agencies varied from 2.1 (Australian NRA), 4.2 (US EPA) to 6.9 (ATSDR). Biological monitoring using HPLC-MS/MS analysis of urinary TCP (24 h) was found to be an effective method for measuring chlorpyrifos exposure among farmers. This case study found that Vietnamese rice farmers had relatively high exposures to chlorpyrifos after application, which were likely to have adverse health effects.
22209874	We identified a short-grain mutant (Short grain1 (Sg1) Dominant) via phenotypic screening of 13,000 rice (Oryza sativa) activation-tagged lines. The causative gene, SG1, encodes a protein with unknown function that is preferentially expressed in roots and developing panicles. Overexpression of SG1 in rice produced a phenotype with short grains and dwarfing reminiscent of brassinosteroid (BR)-deficient mutants, with wide, dark-green, and erect leaves. However, the endogenous BR level in the SG1 overexpressor (SG1:OX) plants was comparable to the wild type. SG1:OX plants were insensitive to brassinolide in the lamina inclination assay. Therefore, SG1 appears to decrease responses to BRs. Despite shorter organs in the SG1:OX plants, their cell size was not decreased in the SG1:OX plants. Therefore, SG1 decreases organ elongation by decreasing cell proliferation. In contrast to the SG1:OX plants, RNA interference knockdown plants that down-regulated SG1 and a related gene, SG1-LIKE PROTEIN1, had longer grains and internodes in rachis branches than in the wild type. Taken together, these results suggest that SG1 decreases responses to BRs and elongation of organs such as seeds and the internodes of rachis branches through decreased cellular proliferation.
22209956	The current food crisis demands unambiguous determination of mycotoxin contamination in staple foods to achieve safer food for consumption. This paper describes the first accurate LC-MS/MS method developed to analyze tricothecenes in grains by applying multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) transition and MS(3) quantitation strategies in tandem. The tricothecenes are nivalenol, deoxynivalenol, deoxynivalenol-3-glucoside, fusarenon X, 3-acetyl-deoxynivalenol, 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol, diacetoxyscirpenol, and HT-2 and T-2 toxins. Acetic acid and ammonium acetate were used to convert the analytes into their respective acetate adducts and ammonium adducts under negative and positive MS polarity conditions, respectively. The mycotoxins were separated by reversed-phase LC in a 13.5-min run, ionized using electrospray ionization, and detected by tandem mass spectrometry. Analyte-specific mass-to-charge (m/z) ratios were used to perform quantitation under MRM transition and MS(3) (linear ion trap) modes. Three experiments were made for each quantitation mode and matrix in batches over 6 days for recovery studies. The matrix effect was investigated at concentration levels of 20, 40, 80, 120, 160, and 200 μg kg(-1) (n = 3) in 5 g corn flour and rice flour. Extraction with acetonitrile provided a good overall recovery range of 90-108% (n = 3) at three levels of spiking concentration of 40, 80, and 120 μg kg(-1). A quantitation limit of 2-6 μg kg(-1) was achieved by applying an MRM transition quantitation strategy. Under MS(3) mode, a quantitation limit of 4-10 μg kg(-1) was achieved. Relative standard deviations of 2-10% and 2-11% were reported for MRM transition and MS(3) quantitation, respectively. The successful utilization of MS(3) enabled accurate analyte fragmentation pattern matching and its quantitation, leading to the development of analytical methods in fields that demand both analyte specificity and fragmentation fingerprint-matching capabilities that are unavailable under MRM transition.
22209962	This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
22210174	Chlorpyrifos is a widely used organophosphorus insecticide in agricultural pest control. To understand the residue behavior of chlorpyrifos and to evaluate the dietary risk of chlorpyrifos residue in food in China, a number of residue studies were conducted on rice and cabbage. The supervised trial median residues (STMRs) for rice and cabbage were less than 0.010 and 0.227 mg kg⁻¹, respectively. Only 7.4% and 13.3% of acceptable daily intake (ADI) (0-0.01 mg kg⁻¹ bw) of chlorpyrifos is occupied by dietary daily intake to the Chinese adult and children, respectively, due to the consumption of rice and cabbage. These results on risk assessment were consistent with that of JMPR. Incorporation of market survey residue data gave a 5-fold reduction in the estimated exposures to chlorpyrifos. Concerning the acute exposure, the national estimated short-term intake (NESTI) represents 0.077% and 10.6% for rice and cabbage, respectively, of the acute reference dose (ARfD) (0-0.1 mg kg⁻¹ bw). The application of chlorpyrifos at the recommended dose on rice and cabbage is unlikely to pose any public health issues if it is applied according to the good agricultural practices (GAPs) established by each country.
22210608	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) is the most devastating pathogen to Oryza sativa and has been shown to cause bacterial blight. Two bioactive compounds showing antimicrobial activities against Xoo strain KACC 10331 were isolated from a Streptomyces bottropensis strain. The ethyl acetate extract was fractionated on a Sephadex LH-20 column, and then purified by preparative HPLC. The purified compounds were identified as bottromycin A2 and dunaimycin D3S by HR/MS and 1H NMR analyses. The MIC value against Xoo and the lowest concentration still capable of suppressing rice bacterial blight were 2 microgram/ml and 16 microgram/ml for bottromycin A2, and 64 microgram/ml and 0.06 microgram/ml for dunaimycin D3S, respectively. These two compounds were shown to exert different bioactivities in vitro and in rice leaf explants.
22210619	Enzyme extracts of cellulase [filter paper cellulase (FPase) and carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase)], chitinase, and chitosanase produced by Aspergillus niger NRRL-567 were evaluated. The interactive effects of initial moisture and different inducers for FP cellulase and CMCase production were optimized using response surface methodology. Higher enzyme activities [FPase 79.24+/- 4.22 IU/gram fermented substrate (gfs) and CMCase 124.04+/-7.78 IU/gfs] were achieved after 48 h fermentation in solid-state medium containing apple pomace supplemented with rice husk [1&percnt; (w/w)] under optimized conditions [pH 4.5, moisture 55% (v/w), and inducers veratryl alcohol (2 mM/kg), copper sulfate (1.5 mM/kg), and lactose 2% (w/w)] (p<0.05). Koji fermentation in trays was carried out and higher enzyme activities (FPase 96.67+/-4.18 IU/gfs and CMCase 146.50+/-11.92 IU/gfs) were achieved. The nonspecific chitinase and chitosanase activities of cellulase enzyme extract were analyzed using chitin and chitosan substrates with different physicochemical characteristics, such as degree of deacetylation, molecular weight, and viscosity. Higher chitinase and chitosanase activities of 70.28+/-3.34 IU/gfs and 60.18+/-3.82 to 64.20+/-4.12 IU/gfs, respectively, were achieved. Moreover, the enzyme was stable and retained 92-94% activity even after one month. Cellulase enzyme extract obtained from A. niger with chitinolytic and chitosanolytic activities could be potentially used for making low-molecular-weight chitin and chitosan oligomers, having promising applications in biomedicine, pharmaceuticals, food, and agricultural industries, and in biocontrol formulations.
22210620	Filamentous fungi colonizing rice straw were collected from 11 different sites in Korea and were identified based on characterization of their morphology and molecular properties. The fungi were divided into 25 species belonging to 16 genera, including 14 ascomycetes, one zygomycete, and one basidiomycete. Fungal cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes were assessed through a two-step process, wherein highly active cellulase- and/or hemicellulaseproducing fungi were selected in a first screening step followed by a second step to isolate the best enzymeproducer. Twenty-five fungal species were first screened for the production of total cellulase (TC), endo-beta-1,4 glucanase (EG), and endo-beta-1,4 xylanase (XYL) using solid-state fermentation with rice straw as substrate. From this screening, six species, namely, Aspergillus niger KUC5183, A. ochraceus KUC5204, A. versicolor KUC5201, Mucor circinelloides KUC6014, Trichoderma harzianum 1 KUC5182, and an unknown basidiomycete species, KUC8721, were selected. These six species were then incubated in liquid Mandels' media containing cellulose, glucose, rice straw, or xylan as the sole carbon source and the activities of six different enzymes were measured. Enzyme production was highly influenced by media conditions and in some cases significantly increased. Through this screening process, Trichoderma harzianum 1 KUC5182 was selected as the best enzyme producer. Rice straw and xylan were good carbon sources for the screening of cellulolytic and xylanolytic enzymes.
22211171	Corn is a major staple food, along with rice and wheat, in many parts of the world. There are several reports of hypersensitivity to maize pollen. However, cases of occupational allergic rhinitis induced by inhalation of maize pollen are very rare. We herein report the case of a 67-year-old male with occupational rhinitis caused by occupational exposure to maize pollen in a cornfield. He showed positive responses to maize pollen, as well as grass pollens, in skin prick tests. A high level of serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) specific to maize pollen extracts was detected by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Laboratory tests showed a high serum level of total IgE (724 kU/L) and a high level of IgE specific to maize pollen (8.32 kU/L) using the Immuno-CAP system. Occupational rhinitis was confirmed by a nasal provocation test with maize pollen extracts. IgE ELISA inhibition tests showed antibody cross-reactivity between maize pollen and grass pollen extracts. IgE immunoblotting using maize pollen extracts demonstrated a 27 kDa IgE-binding component. These findings suggest that maize pollen can induce IgE-mediated occupational rhinitis in exposed workers.
22212404	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbioses are mutualistic associations between soil fungi and most vascular plants. Their association benefits the host plant by improving nutrition, mainly phosphorus nutrition, and by providing increased capability to cope with adverse conditions. In this study, we investigated the transcriptional changes triggered in rice leaves as a result of AM symbiosis, focusing on the relevance of the plant defence response. We showed that root colonization by the AM fungus Glomus intraradices is accompanied by the systemic induction of genes that play a regulatory role in the host defence response, such as OsNPR1, OsAP2, OsEREBP and OsJAmyb. Genes involved in signal transduction processes (OsDUF26 and OsMPK6) and genes that function in calcium-mediated signalling processes (OsCBP, OsCaM and OsCML4) are also up-regulated in leaves of mycorrhizal rice plants in the absence of pathogen infection. In addition, the mycorrhizal rice plants exhibit a stronger induction of defence marker genes [i.e. pathogenesis-related (PR) genes] in their leaves in response to infection by the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Evidence indicates that mycorrhizal rice plants show enhanced resistance to the rice blast fungus. Overall, these results suggest that the protective effect of the AM symbiosis in rice plants relies on both the systemic activation of defence regulatory genes in the absence of pathogen challenge and the priming for stronger expression of defence effector genes during pathogen infection. The possible mechanisms involved in the mycorrhiza-induced resistance to M. oryzae infection are discussed.
22212476	Our purpose was to determine whether the glycemic index (GI) of individual foods applies to mixed meals. The glycemic responses elicited by portions of 4 individual foods with 25 g of available carbohydrate when served alone (rice, lacy pancake, flatbread and noodles) and when made into typical Malaysian mixed meals (coconut milk rice, lacy pancake with chicken curry, flatbread with dhal curry and fried noodles) were measured in 10 subjects with type 2 diabetes. To allow calculation of the GI of the foods and the relative glycemic responses of the mixed meals, each subject also tested 25 g of glucose 3 times. Capillary blood glucose was measured at 30-min intervals for 180 min after consuming each test meal. The mean ± SEM incremental area under the curve (AUC) after flatbread (345 ± 26 mmol × min/l) was significantly greater than after rice (238 ± 35) and lacy pancake (235 ± 31, p < 0.05), with noodles being intermediate (294 ± 35). The AUC after the flatbread with dhal curry (341 ± 49), coconut milk rice (238 ± 39) and fried noodle (272 ± 42) mixed meals were similar to those after the individual foods, but the AUC after the lacy pancake with chicken curry mixed meal (388 ± 52) was significantly greater than after the individual food item (p < 0.01). The results support the utility of the GI of individual foods such as rice, flatbread and noodles when applied to mixed meals. The reason for the higher response after the lacy pancake mixed meal compared to the individual food is not clear and may warrant further research.
22212819	The nonstructural Pns9 protein of Rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV) accumulates in viroplasm inclusions, which are structures that appear to play an important role in viral morphogenesis and are commonly found in host cells infected by viruses in the family Reoviridae. An RNA interference construct was designed to target the gene for Pns9 of RGDV, namely Trigger_G9. The resultant transgenic plants accumulated short interfering RNAs specific for the construct. All progenies from self-fertilized transgenic plants had strong and heritable resistance to RGDV infection and did not allow the propagation of RGDV. By contrast, our transgenic plants remained susceptible to Rice dwarf virus, another phytoreovirus. There were no significant changes in the morphology of our transgenic plants compared with non-inoculated wild-type rice plants, suggesting that genes critical for the growth of rice plants were unaffected. Our results demonstrate that the resistance to RGDV of our transgenic rice plants is not due to resistance to the vector insects but to specific inhibition of RGDV replication and that the designed trigger sequence is functioning normally. Thus, our strategy to target a gene for viroplasm matrix protein should be applicable to plant viruses that belong to the family Reoviridae.
22213212	A multitude of natural products from plant extracts have been tested for their ability to inhibit the progression of several diseases including cancer. A novel approach of evaluating plant (rice) callus suspension cultures for anticancer activity is reported. The ability of different dilutions of rice callus suspension cultures to inhibit growth of two human cancer cell lines was tested employing varying cell numbers and different incubation times. A crystal violet assay was performed to assess cell viability of the cancer cell lines. Furthermore, microscopic analysis was carried out to determine the effect of the rice callus culture on the morphology of the cancer cells. Rice callus suspension cultures significantly inhibited the growth of human cancer and renal cell lines at densities of 5000 and 10000 cells/mL when incubated for 72 and 96 h. Rice callus suspension culture was more efficient than paclitaxel (Taxol®) and etoposide in selectively killing human colon and renal cancer cell lines compared with a control cell line (human lung fibroblasts). The use of plant callus suspension cultures is a novel approach for inhibiting the growth of cancer cells, which will lead to the development of new agents for selectively killing cancer cells.
22213809	The TaPR61 gene from bread wheat encodes a lipid transfer protein (LTP) with a hydrophobic signal peptide, predicted to direct the TaPR61 protein to the apoplast. Modelling of TaPR61 revealed the presence of an internal cavity which can accommodate at least two lipid molecules. The full-length gene, including the promoter sequence of a TaPR61 orthologue, was cloned from a BAC library of Triticum durum. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed the presence of TaPR61 and TdPR61 mainly in grain. A transcriptional TdPR61 promoter-GUS fusion was stably transformed into wheat, barley, and rice. The strongest GUS expression in all three plants was found in the endosperm transfer cells, the embryo surrounding region (ESR), and in the embryo. The promoter is strong and has similar but not identical spatial patterns of activity in wheat, barley, and rice. These results suggest that the TdPR61 promoter will be a useful tool for improving grain quality by manipulating the quality and quantity of nutrient/lipid uptake to the endosperm and embryo. Mapping of regions important for the promoter function using transient expression assays in developing embryos resulted in the identification of two segments important for promoter activation in embryos. The putative cis-elements from the distal segment were used as bait in a yeast 1-hybrid (Y1H) screen of a cDNA library prepared from the liquid part of the wheat multinucleate syncytium. A transcription factor isolated in the screen is similar to BES1/BLZ1 from Arabidopsis, which is known to be a key transcriptional regulator of the brassinosteroid signalling pathway.
22213813	Despite the major physiological dissimilarities between mature root regions and their tips, differences in their gene expression profiles remain largely unexplored. In this research, the transcriptome of rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica) mature root tissue and root tips was monitored using mRNA-Seq at two time points. Almost 50 million 76 bp reads were mapped onto the rice genome sequence, expression patterns for different tissues and time points were investigated, and at least 1106 novel transcriptionally active regions (nTARs) expressed in rice root tissue were detected. More than 30 000 genes were found to be expressed in rice roots, among which were 1761 root-enriched and 306 tip-enriched transcripts. Mature root tissue appears to respond more strongly to external stimuli than tips, showing a higher expression of, for instance, auxin-responsive and abscisic acid-responsive genes, as well as the phenylpropanoid pathway and photosynthesis upon light. The root tip-enriched transcripts are mainly involved in mitochondrial electron transport, organelle development, secondary metabolism, DNA replication and metabolism, translation, and cellular component organization. During root maturation, genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis and modification, response to oxidative stress, and secondary metabolism were activated. For some nTARs, a potential role in root development can be put forward based on homology to genes involved in CLAVATA signalling, cell cycle regulators, and hormone signalling. A subset of differentially expressed genes and novel transcripts was confirmed using (quantitative) reverse transcription-PCR. These results uncover previously unrecognized tissue-specific expression profiles and provide an interesting starting point to study the different regulation of transcribed regions of these tissues.
22215377	Momilactone B (MB) is a terpenoid phytoalexin present in rice bran that exhibits several biological activities. MB reduced the melanin content in B16 melanocytes melanin content and inhibited tyrosinase activities. Using transcriptome analysis, the genes involved in protein kinase A (PKA) signaling were found to be markedly altered. B16 cells stimulated with MB had decreased concentrations of cAMP protein kinase A activity, and cAMP-response element-binding protein which is a key transcription factor for microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) expression. Accordingly, the expression of MITF and its target genes, which are essential for melanogenesis, were reduced. MB thus exhibits anti-melanogenic effects by repressing tyrosinase enzyme activity and inhibiting the PKA signaling pathway which, in turn, decreases melanogenic gene expression.
22215564	Bacillus thuringiensis rice is facing commercialization as the main food source in the near future. The unintended effects of genetically modified (GM) organisms are the most important barriers to their promotion. We aimed to establish a new in vivo evaluation model for genetically modified foods by using metabonomics and bacterial profile approaches. T1c-19 rice flour or its transgenic parent MH63 was used at 70% wt/wt to produce diets that were fed to rats for ∼ 90 days. Urine metabolite changes were detected using (1)H NMR. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used to detect the bacterial profiles between the two groups. The metabonomics was analyzed for metabolite changes in rat urine, when compared with the non-GM rice group, where rats were fed a GM rice diet. Several metabolites correlated with rat age and sex but not with GM rice diet. Significant biological differences were not identified between the GM rice diet and the non-GM rice diet. The bacteria related to rat urine metabolites were also discussed. The results from metabonomics and bacterial profile analyses were comparable with the results attained using the traditional method. Because metabonomics and bacterial profiling offer noninvasive, dynamic approaches for monitoring food safety, they provide a novel process for assessing the safety of GM foods.
22215597	Xylan, a hemicellulosic component of the plant cell wall, is one of the most abundant polysaccharides in nature. In contrast to dicots, xylan in grasses is extensively modified by α-(1,2)- and α-(1,3)-linked arabinofuranose. Despite the importance of grass arabinoxylan in human and animal nutrition and for bioenergy, the enzymes adding the arabinosyl substitutions are unknown. Here we demonstrate that knocking-down glycosyltransferase (GT) 61 expression in wheat endosperm strongly decreases α-(1,3)-linked arabinosyl substitution of xylan. Moreover, heterologous expression of wheat and rice GT61s in Arabidopsis leads to arabinosylation of the xylan, and therefore provides gain-of-function evidence for α-(1,3)-arabinosyltransferase activity. Thus, GT61 proteins play a key role in arabinoxylan biosynthesis and therefore in the evolutionary divergence of grass cell walls.
22215681	Recent reports have revealed genomic clustering of enzymatic genes for particular biosynthetic pathways in plant specialized/secondary metabolism. Rice (Oryza sativa) carries two such clusters for production of antimicrobial diterpenoid phytoalexins, with the cluster on chromosome 2 containing four closely related/homologous members of the cytochrome P450 CYP76M subfamily (CYP76M5-8). Notably, the underlying evolutionary expansion of these CYP appears to have occurred after assembly of the ancestral biosynthetic gene cluster, suggesting separate roles. It has been demonstrated that CYP76M7 catalyzes C11α-hydroxylation of ent-cassadiene, and presumably mediates an early step in biosynthesis of the derived phytocassane class of phytoalexins. Here we report biochemical characterization of CYP76M5, -6, and -8. Our results indicate that CYP76M8 is a multifunctional/promiscuous hydroxylase, with CYP76M5 and -7 seeming to provide only redundant activity, while CYP76M6 seems to provide both redundant and novel activity, relative to CYP76M8. RNAi-mediated double knockdown of CYP76M7 and -8 suppresses elicitor inducible phytocassane production, indicating a role for these monooxygenases in phytocassane biosynthesis. In addition, our data suggests that CYP76M5, -6, and -8 may play redundant roles in production of the oryzalexin class of phytoalexins as well. Intriguingly, the preceding diterpene synthase for oryzalexin biosynthesis, unlike that for the phytocassanes, is not found in the chromosome 2 diterpenoid biosynthetic gene cluster. Accordingly, our results not only uncover a complex evolutionary history, but also further suggest some intriguing differences between plant biosynthetic gene clusters and the seemingly similar microbial operons. The implications for the underlying metabolic evolution of plants are then discussed.
22215967	Members of the ERF transcription-factor family participate in a number of biological processes, viz., responses to hormones, adaptation to biotic and abiotic stress, metabolism regulation, beneficial symbiotic interactions, cell differentiation and developmental processes. So far, no tissue-expression profile of any cucumber ERF protein has been reported in detail. Recent completion of the cucumber full-genome sequence has come to facilitate, not only genome-wide analysis of ERF family members in cucumbers themselves, but also a comparative analysis with those in Arabidopsis and rice. In this study, 103 hypothetical ERF family genes in the cucumber genome were identified, phylogenetic analysis indicating their classification into 10 groups, designated I to X. Motif analysis further indicated that most of the conserved motifs outside the AP2/ERF domain, are selectively distributed among the specific clades in the phylogenetic tree. From chromosomal localization and genome distribution analysis, it appears that tandem-duplication may have contributed to CsERF gene expansion. Intron/exon structure analysis indicated that a few CsERFs still conserved the former intron-position patterns existent in the common ancestor of monocots and eudicots. Expression analysis revealed the widespread distribution of the cucumber ERF gene family within plant tissues, thereby implying the probability of their performing various roles therein. Furthermore, members of some groups presented mutually similar expression patterns that might be related to their phylogenetic groups.
22216476	Fair-trade and organic products are often sold at price premiums justified by smaller production volumes that are associated with greater social and environmental responsibility. The consumption of these products confers on the consumer a greater sense of morality – and usually a claim to better taste. This paper tells the story of attempts to promote organic/fair-trade rice production by de facto organic Cambodian farmers for export to North American and European markets in order to assist poor farmers to trade their way out of poverty. It demonstrates that instead of promoting sustainable agriculture and fair trade between developed and developing markets, organic/fair-trade projects may impose First World consumer ideals and tastes that are out of step with the larger realities of agrarian transition in Cambodia and the wider region of developing Southeast Asia.
22217248	Rice stripe virus (RSV) causes disease that can severely affect the productivity of rice (Oryza sativa). Several RSV-resistant cultivars have been developed. However, host factors conferring RSV resistance in these cultivars are still elusive. Here, we present a systems approach for identifying potential rice resistance factors. We developed two near-isogenic lines (NIL), RSV-resistant NIL22 and RSV-susceptible NIL37, and performed gene expression profiling of the two lines in RSV-infected and RSV-uninfected conditions. We identified 237 differentially expressed genes (DEG) between NIL22 and NIL37. By integrating with known quantitative trait loci (QTL), we selected 11 DEG located within the RSV resistance QTL as RSV resistance factor candidates. Furthermore, we identified 417 DEG between RSV-infected and RSV-uninfected conditions. Using an interaction network-based method, we selected 20 DEG highly interacting with the two sets of DEG as RSV resistance factor candidates. Among the 31 candidates, we selected the final set of 21 potential RSV resistance factors whose differential expression was confirmed in the independent samples using real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Finally, we reconstructed a network model delineating potential association of the 21 selected factors with resistance-related processes. In summary, our approach, based on gene expression profiling, revealed potential host resistance factors and a network model describing their relationships with resistance-related processes, which can be further validated in detailed experiments.
22218421	In higher plants, the supply of metals such as Zn and Fe via phloem is important for the growth and physiology of young organs. However, little information is available on the speciation (chemical forms) of these metals in the phloem fluids. Because the pH of phloem fluids is slightly alkaline and the concentration of phosphate, which may bind to metals, is high, Zn and Fe in phloem fluids could be precipitated if these metals do not form complexes with some ligand compounds. In the present experiment, we examined the chemical forms of Zn and Fe in phloem sap collected from rice (Oryza sativa L.) by separating the phloem sap using size-exclusion and anion-exchange chromatography, and identifying the contents using electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The low molecular weight chemical forms of Zn and Fe were identified as Zn-nicotianamine and Fe(III)-2'-deoxymugineic acid complexes, respectively. This report is the first to identify metal-chelate complexes in rice phloem sap.
22218673	Resistant germplasm resources are valuable for developing resistant varieties in agricultural production. However, recessive resistance genes are usually overlooked in hybrid breeding. Compared with dominant traits, however, they may confer resistance to different pathogenic races or pest biotypes with different mechanisms of action. The recessive rice bacterial blight resistance gene xa13, also involved in pollen development, has been cloned and its resistance mechanism has been recently characterized. This report describes the conversion of bacterial blight resistance mediated by the recessive xa13 gene into a dominant trait to facilitate its use in a breeding program. This was achieved by knockdown of the corresponding dominant allele Xa13 in transgenic rice using recently developed artificial microRNA technology. Tissue-specific promoters were used to exclude most of the expression of artificial microRNA in the anther to ensure that Xa13 functioned normally during pollen development. A battery of highly bacterial blight resistant transgenic plants with normal seed setting rates were acquired, indicating that highly specific gene silencing had been achieved. Our success with xa13 provides a paradigm that can be adapted to other recessive resistance genes.
22218926	The S5 locus regulates spikelet fertility of indica/japonica hybrid rice (Oryza sativa). There are three alleles at the S5 locus, including an indica allele (S5i), a japonica allele (S5j), and a wide-compatibility allele (S5n). This study analyzed the molecular basis for S5-dependent reproductive isolation and compatibility of indica/japonica rice hybrids. Three S5 alleles were expressed at extremely low levels, and only in the ovary. S5n was more similar to S5i in both RNA and protein expression profiles. The S5 locus was not essential for embryo sac development, although deleterious interactions between S5i and S5j resulted in reduced rates of spikelet fertility. The yeast two-hybrid system was used to test direct interactions between S5-encoded proteins. The results indicated that the S5i- and S5j-encoded eukaryotic aspartyl proteases formed both homodimers and heterodimers, whereas the S5n-encoded aspartyl protease was incapable of dimerization. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that a single amino acid difference between S5i- and S5j-encoded aspartyl proteases (phenylalanine/leucine at residue 273) was primarily responsible for embryo sac abortion. The S5 locus may have promoted the subspeciation of indica and japonica, but it also enables gene flow between them.
22218977	Securing adequate and appropriate source material for coral-reef ecotoxicology studies is a significant impediment to conducting various experiments supporting the goal of conserving coral-reef ecosystems. Collecting colonies from wild stocks may be counter to protecting coral reef populations. To address this issue the rice coral Montipora capitata was used to generate sufficient genetically identical nubbins for research purposes. Growth and survival rates of these laboratory-prepared M. capitata nubbins were studied over a period of 90 days. The resulting data support the conclusion that the laboratory-prepared M. capitata nubbins showed successful growth and survival rates and are the best solution to solve the source material issue for lab experimentation. This paper describes the laboratory method used for the preparation and maintenance of these M. capitata nubbins and discusses the benefits and difficulties of using these nubbins in ecotoxicity studies.
22220942	The opportunity for detecting the presence and the amount of lignin-carbohydrate complexes (LCCs) in renewable feedstocks is a major issue for the complete utilization of biomass. Indeed, LCCs are known to shield cellulose from enzymatic hydrolysis, reducing the efficiency of the digestion processes needed for the production of biobased products. This study is focused on the chromatographic characterization of lignocellulose from agricultural residues (rice husk, wheat straw) and herbaceous energy crops (Arundo donax , Miscanthus sinesis) and their fractionation products (hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin). Exploiting alternative chemical derivatizations on the aforementioned samples, it was possible to discern the connectivity among the various lignocellulosic components. The complete acetylation and benzoylation of the milled native substrates in ionic liquid media, and the systematic comparison between their GPC-UV chromatograms collected at different wavelengths has revealed itself as a straightforward technique in the detection of LCCs. This novel approach proved an extensive connectivity between the lignin and the hemicellulosic for all the analyzed specimens, whereas the cellulosic fraction was conceived as a substantially unbound moiety, accounting for the sample composition at higher molecular weights. Moreover, the collected lignin fractions were extensively characterized by means of (31)P NMR and 2D-HSQC techniques.
22221243	1. Rice bran lysolecithin (RBL) was evaluated in broiler chicken diets. In the first experiment, RBL was included in diet at 0, 0·5, 2, 8 and 32 g/kg and fed to 250 broiler chickens from 0 to 42 d of age. In the second experiment, RBL was fed at 0, 25 and 50 g/kg diet to 405 day-old broiler chickens until 21 d of age, while during the finisher phase (22-35 d of age) chickens receiving each concentration of RBL were given all three concentrations of RBL in a 3 × 3 factorial manner. The diets were isocaloric. 2. Body weight, food consumption and food conversion efficiency were unaffected by feeding RBL, while the weight of pancreas increased at ≥2 g/kg of RBL in diet (experiment 1). In experiment 2, body weight was greater in the chickens receiving RBL at either 25 or 50 g/kg (21 d) and 50 g/kg (35 d of age). At 21 d of age, food consumption was greater at 25 or 50 g RBL/kg diet, while food conversion efficiency improved with 50 g RBL/kg diet. 3. Fat digestibility increased with RBL at 32 g/kg (experiment 1) and ≤25 g/kg (experiment 2). Rice bran lysolecithin increased ready to cook weight at 50 g/kg during starter phase and decreased abdominal fat at 25 and 50 g/kg during finisher phase (experiment 2). Liver and meat fat content were not affected. 4. It is concluded that lysolecithin from rice bran oil could be used as energy supplement in broiler chicken diet.
22221540	Catalytic fast pyrolysis of waste rice husk was carried out using pyrolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry [Py-GC/MS]. Meso-MFI zeolite [Meso-MFI] was used as the catalyst. In addition, a 0.5-wt.% platinum [Pt] was ion-exchanged into Meso-MFI to examine the effect of Pt addition. Using a catalytic upgrading method, the activities of the catalysts were evaluated in terms of product composition and deoxygenation. The structure and acid site characteristics of the catalysts were analyzed by Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area measurement and NH3 temperature-programmed desorption analysis. Catalytic upgrading reduced the amount of oxygenates in the product vapor due to the cracking reaction of the catalysts. Levoglucosan, a polymeric oxygenate species, was completely decomposed without being detected. While the amount of heavy phenols was reduced by catalytic upgrading, the amount of light phenols was increased because of the catalytic cracking of heavy phenols into light phenols and aromatics. The amount of aromatics increased remarkably as a result of catalytic upgrading, which is attributed to the strong Brönsted acid sites and the shape selectivity of the Meso-MFI catalyst. The addition of Pt made the Meso-MFI catalyst even more active in deoxygenation and in the production of aromatics.
22221666	Human exposure to toxic heavy metals via the food chain is of increasing concern. In the present study, the effects of soil type and genotype on variation in arsenic (As) concentrations of different organs were investigated by using nine rice cultivars grown in two soils, with two levels of As contamination. There were significant genotypic differences (P<0.05) in As concentrations of all organs, and As concentrations of polished grain were significantly affected by genotype and soil type. The As concentration in polished grain was higher in red paddy soil under As treatment, with range from 0.24 to 1.03 mg kg(-1), and the As concentration of three cultivars exceeded the concentration of Chinese Food Hygiene Standard (0.7 mg kg(-1)). The As concentrations in stems, leaves and polished grain were all significantly and positively correlated. The As concentrations in polished grain were positively and significantly (P<0.01) correlated with As root-grain translocation factor. The results indicated that As concentration in grain was partially governed by As uptake and the transfer of As from root to grain. The grain As concentration of the nine cultivars was significantly correlated between the two soil types at different levels of As contamination. Some genotypes, such as japonica rice (e.g. Ning jing 1 and Nan jing 32) had consistently low grain As concentrations. The results suggest the possibility of breeding the As rice cultivars to produce grain for safe consumption from soils with slight and moderate levels of As.
22221874	China has become the largest contributor of anthropogenic atmospheric mercury (Hg) in the world owing to its fast growing economy and the largest of populations. Over the last two decades, Hg has become of increasing environmental concern in China and much has been published on its distribution, transportation, methylation, and bioaccumulation in aquatic systems and areas of geologic resource extraction contaminated sites, such as coal-fired power plants, non-ferrous smelters, Hg mining and retorting sites, Au amalgam, landfills, chemical plants, etc.. Environmental compartments, like soil, water, air, and crop from areas of geologic resource extraction contamination, especially from Hg mining regions, exhibit elevated values of total-Hg and MMHg. Risk assessments indicate that the consumption of rice, which has a high bioaccumulation of MMHg, has become the dominant pathway of MMHg exposure of inhabitants living in Hg mining areas. Low concentrations less than 5ngl(-1) in total-Hg can be observed in rivers from remote areas, however, high concentrations that reached 1600ngl(-1) in total-Hg can be found in rivers from industrial and urban areas. The studies of hydropower reservoirs of southwest China indicated the old reservoirs act as net sinks for total-Hg and net sources of MMHg, while newly established ones act as net sinks for both total-Hg and MMHg, which is in sharp contrast to the evolution of biomethylation in reservoirs established in the boreal belt of North America and Eurasia. Fish from those reservoirs have relatively low levels of total-Hg, which do not exceed the maximum total-Hg limit of 0.5mgkg(-1) recommended by WHO. Currently, however, there is still a large data gap regarding Hg even in the areas mentioned above in China, which results in poor understanding of its environmental biogeochemistry. Moreover, for a better understanding of human and environmental health effects caused by the fast growing economy, long-term Hg monitoring campaigns are urgently needed.
22224477	A monitoring test for arsenic species in white rice flour was developed and applied to flours made from 20 samples of polished rice collected from locations all over Japan. The arsenic species in white rice flour made from five samples each of four types of rice were analyzed by HPLC-ICP-MS after a heat-assisted aqueous extraction. The total arsenic and major and minor element concentrations in the white rice flours were measured by ICP-MS and ICP-OES after microwave-assisted digestion. 91 ± 1% of the arsenic in the flours was extractable. Concentrations of arsenite [As(III)], arsenate [As(V)], and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA) were closely positively correlated with the total arsenic concentrations. The total arsenic concentration in flours made from rice collected around Japan was 0.15 ± 0.07 mg kg(-1) (highest, 0.32 mg kg(-1)), which is very low. It was thus confirmed that the white rice flour samples collected in this experiment were not suffered from noticeable As contamination.
22224625	Two new dehydromonacolins (1 and 3), together with nine known monacolins (4-12), were isolated from red yeast rice. Compounds 4-6 were isolated from a natural resource for the first time. Their structures were elucidated by means of NMR and mass spectroscopic analyses. The structure of dehydromonacolin N (1) was further confirmed by its semisynthesis from monacolin K (lovastatin) (11). Dehydromonacolin J (2), an intermediate in the semisynthesis of 1, was obtained as a new dehydromonacolin. The structure of dehydromonacolin L (3) was also confirmed by an elimination reaction of monacolin L (12). Compound 1, possessing a C2 side chain, is unprecedented in the natural monacolin family and exhibited moderate cytotoxic activity against Hep G2, Caco-2, and MCF-7 cancer cell lines. Dehydromonacolin K (8) demonstrated the most potent cytotoxicity to all three of these cell lines. The structure-activity relationship of natural and synthesized monacolins was discussed. This is the first report on the cytotoxic effects of dehydromonacolins.
22226498	In this study, rice husk, an abundant agricultural byproduct, was utilized as an alternative silica source for the synthesis of MCM-22. The zeolite with high crystalline was synthesized using a three-stage varying-temperature hydrothermal method. The prepared silica and MCM-22 were characterized by X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The results showed that the duration required for zeolite crystallization was significantly decreased under varying-temperature conditions. The MCM-22 was in the form of thin platelet-like crystals, and no amorphous material existed in the framework of the MCM-22 after calcination and ammonium exchange. Cationic brilliant red 5GN, a basic dye used in the wool and blanket factories for fiber dyeing, was selected as the adsorptive to study the adsorption performance of the MCM-22. Adsorption experiments indicated that the maximum extent of adsorption was obtained at pH of 10, contact time of 60 min, and MCM-22 dose of 1.0 g/L. The adsorption kinetic has been described by first-order and pseudo-second-order models. It was observed that the rate of dye adsorption followed pseudo-second-order model.
22226678	Oryza sativa GUN4 together with the magnesium chelatase subunits ChlI, ChlD, and ChlH have been heterologously expressed and purified to reconstitute magnesium chelatase activity in vitro. Maximum magnesium chelatase activity requires pre-activation of OsChlH with OsGUN4, Mg(2+) and protoporphyrin-IX. OsGUN4 and OsChlH preincubated without protoporphyrin-IX yields magnesium chelatase activity similar to assays without OsGUN4, suggesting formation of a dead-end complex. Either 9 or 10 C-terminal amino acids of OsGUN4 are slowly hydrolyzed to yield a truncated OsGUN4. These truncated OsGUN4 still bind protoporphyrin-IX and Mg-protoporphyrin-IX but are unable to activate OsChlH. This suggests the mechanism of GUN4 activation of magnesium chelatase is different in eukaryotes compared to cyanobacteria as the orthologous cyanobacterial GUN4 proteins lack this C-terminal extension.
22227302	This study estimates the dietary exposure to cadmium (Cd), and associated potential health risks, for individuals living and working in a metal recycling community (n=132) in Vietnam in comparison to an agricultural (reference) community (n=130). Individual-level exposure to Cd was estimated through analysis of staple foodstuffs combined with information from a food frequency questionnaire. Individual-level exposure estimates were compared with published 'safe' doses to derive a Hazard Quotient (HQ) for each member of the study population. Looking at the populations as a whole, there were no significant differences in the diets of the two villages. However, significantly more rice was consumed by working age adults (18-60 years) in the recycling village compared to the reference village (p<0.001). Rice was the main staple food with individuals consuming 461±162g/d, followed by water spinach (103±51kg/d). Concentrations of Cd in the studied foodstuffs were elevated in the metal recycling village. Values of HQ exceeded unity for 87% of adult participants of the metal recycling community (39% had a HQ>3), while 20% of adult participants from the reference village had an HQ>1. We found an elevated health risk from dietary exposure to Cd in the metal recycling village compared to the reference community. WHO standard of 0.4mg Cd/kg rice may not be protective where people consume large amounts of rice/have relatively low body weight.
22227615	Southern rice black-streaked dwarf virus (SRBSDV) causes one of the most serious viral diseases of rice in Southeast Asia. A reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was developed for detection of SRBSDV using total RNA extracted from rice tissues and the insect pest, white-backed planthopper. The assay was based on a set of four primers matching a total of six sequences in the S9 region of SRBSDV genome. Presence of the virus could be detected in RT-LAMP reactions containing 1.2×10(-6)μg of a total RNA extract, which was ten times more sensitive than a classical RT-PCR assay. The SRBSDV could be distinguished from the closely related rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV) by this method, indicating a high degree of specificity. This simple and sensitive RT-LAMP assay shows potential for detection of SRBSDV in field samples of hosts or vectors at a relatively low cost.
22227948	Soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration, methane emission, and the net carbon sink represented by rice straw incorporated into soil (RIS) were studied using long-term experimentation with rice straw incorporated into soil (LRIS) and short-term experimentation with different patterns of rice straw incorporated into soil (SPRIS). Soil organic carbon could be improved by RIS combined with soil ploughing. The increased rate of SOC deposition per cultivated layer was 0.10 t C ha(-1) for 2.625 t ha(-1) straw incorporated each season in LRIS and 0.36 t C ha(-1) for 4.5 t straw ha(-1) season(-1) incorporated in SPRIS; the apparent SOC conversion by rice straw (stubble) was reduced as the amount of incorporated straw increased. However, RIS methane emission from paddy fields also significantly exacerbated the CH(4) emission flux observed during the early and late rice growing seasons, which was increased by 75.0% (P < 0.01) and 251.5% (P < 0.01), respectively, compared with combined application of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertiliser (NPK). The apparent methane conversion of straw was almost uniform with a similar rice yield and soil cultivating mode. Among the patterns of RIS, methane emission was significantly reduced under straw covering untilled land, and this property led to the lowest apparent methane conversion. RIS with ploughing and tilling resulted in negative carbon sequestration because of increased methane emissions. A combined NPK application with only rice stubble incorporation may be sustainable for a higher rice yield, but this approach has a reduced rate of negative carbon sequestration in the paddy field. Straw covering with no tillage was the best measure to realise high yield and low carbon emission for RIS.
22228180	Graminaceous plants release ferric-chelating phytosiderophores that bind to iron. These ferric-phytosiderophore complexes are transported across the plasma membrane by a protein produced from Yellow Stripe 1 (YS1). Here, we report the characterization of OsYSL16, one of the YS1-like genes in rice. Real-time analysis revealed that this gene was constitutively expressed irrespective of metal status. Promoter fusions of OsYSL16 to β-glucuronidase (GUS) showed that OsYSL16 was highly expressed in the vascular tissues of the root, leaf, and spikelet, and in leaf mesophyll cells. The OsYSL16-green fluorescence protein (GFP) fusion protein was localized to the plasma membrane. From a pool of rice T-DNA insertional lines, we identified two independent activation-tagging mutants in OsYSL16. On an Fe-deficient medium, those mutants retained relatively high chlorophyll concentrations compared with the wild-type (WT) controls, indicating that they are more tolerant to a lack of iron. The Fe concentration in shoots was also higher in the OsYSL16 activation lines than in the WT. During germination, the rate of Fe-utilization from the seeds was higher in the OsYSL16 activation lines than in the WT seeds. Our results suggest that the function of OsYSL16 in Fe-homeostasis is to enable distribution of iron within a plant.
22228185	Because micronutrients in human diets ultimately come from plant sources, malnutrition of essential minerals is a significant public health concern. By increasing the expression of nicotianamine synthase (NAS), we fortified the level of bioavailable iron in rice seeds. Activation of iron deficiency-inducible OsNAS2 resulted in a rise in Fe content (3.0-fold) in mature seeds. Its ectopic expression also increased that content. Enhanced expression led to higher tolerance of Fe deficiency and better growth under elevated pH. Mice fed with OsNAS2-D1 seeds recovered more rapidly from anemia, indicating that bioavailable Fe contents were improved by this increase in OsNAS2 expression.
22228195	Transposons are abundant components of eukaryotic genomes, and play important role in genome evolution. The knowledge about these elements should contribute to the understanding of their impact on the host genomes. The hAT transposon superfamily is one of the best characterized superfamilies in diverse organisms, nevertheless, a detailed study of these elements was never carried in sugarcane. To address this question we analyzed 32 cDNAs similar to that of hAT superfamily of transposons previously identified in the sugarcane transcriptome. Our results revealed that these hAT-like transposases cluster in one highly homogeneous and other more heterogeneous lineage. We present evidences that support the hypothesis that the highly homogeneous group is a domesticated transposase while the remainder of the lineages are composed of transposon units. The first is common to grasses, clusters significantly with domesticated transposases from Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum and is expressed in different tissues of two sugarcane cultivars analyzed. In contrast, the more heterogeneous group represents at least two transposon lineages. We recovered five genomic versions of one lineage, characterizing a novel transposon family with conserved DDE motif, named SChAT. These results indicate the presence of at least three distinct lineages of hAT-like transposase paralogues in sugarcane genome, including a novel transposon family described in Saccharum and a domesticated transposase. Taken together, these findings permit to follow the diversification of some hAT transposase paralogues in sugarcane, aggregating knowledge about the co-evolution of transposons and their host genomes.
22228472	There is increasing interest in the development of technologies which can reduce the requirement for chemical fertilisers in rice production. The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of Bacillus cereus strain RS87 for the partial replacement of chemical fertiliser in rice production. A greenhouse experiment was designed using different fertiliser regimes, with and without strain RS87. Six Thai rice cultivars were tested separately. Maximum rice growth and yield were obtained in rice receiving the full recommended fertiliser rate in combination with the strain RS87. Interestingly, all rice cultivars which were treated with strain RS87 and 50% recommended fertiliser rate provided equivalent plant growth and yield to that receiving the full recommended fertiliser rate only. A paired comparison between rice treated with 50% of the recommended fertiliser rate with the bacterial inoculant and the full fertiliser rate alone was further examined in small experimental rice paddy fields. Growth and yield of all rice cultivars which received the 50% fertiliser rate supplemented with strain RS87 gave a similar yield to that receiving the full fertiliser rate alone. Bacterial strain RS87 showed the potential to replace 50% of the recommended fertiliser rate for yield production. Integration of plant growth-promoting rhizobacterial inoculants with reduced application rates of chemical fertiliser appears promising for future agriculture.
22228816	'Mexican' lime (Citrus aurantifolia Swingle) was transformed with constructs that contained chimeric promoter-gus gene fusions of phloem-specific rolC promoter of Agrobacterium rhizogenes, Arabidopsis thaliana sucrose-H(+) symporter (AtSUC2) gene promoter of Arabidopsis thaliana, rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) promoter and sucrose synthase l (RSs1) gene promoter of Oryza sativa (rice). Histochemical β-glucuronidase (GUS) analysis revealed vascular-specific expression of the GUS protein in citrus. The RTBV promoter was the most efficient promoter in this study while the RSs1 promoter could drive low levels of gus gene expression in citrus. These results were further validated by reverse transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction and northern blotting. Southern blot analysis confirmed stable transgene integration, which ranged from a single insertion to four copies per genome. The use of phloem-specific promoters in citrus will allow targeted transgene expression of antibacterial constructs designed to battle huanglongbing disease (HLB or citrus greening disease), associated with a phloem-limited Gram-negative bacterium.
22229385	A comprehensive and large-scale metabolome quantitative trait loci (mQTL) analysis was performed to investigate the genetic backgrounds associated with metabolic phenotypes in rice grains. The metabolome dataset consisted of 759 metabolite signals obtained from the grains of 85 lines of rice (Oryza sativa, Sasanishiki × Habataki back-crossed inbred lines). Metabolome analysis was performed using four mass spectrometry pipelines to enhance detection of different classes of metabolites. This mQTL analysis of a wide range of metabolites highlighted an uneven distribution of 802 mQTLs on the rice genome, as well as different modes of metabolic trait (m-trait) control among various types of metabolites. The levels of most metabolites within rice grains were highly sensitive to environmental factors, but only weakly associated with mQTLs. Coordinated control was observed for several groups of metabolites, such as amino acids linked to the mQTL hotspot on chromosome 3. For flavonoids, m-trait variation among the experimental lines was tightly governed by genetic factors that alter the glycosylation of flavones. Many loci affecting levels of metabolites were detected by QTL analysis, and plausible gene candidates were evaluated by in silico analysis. Several mQTLs profoundly influenced metabolite levels, providing insight into the control of rice metabolism. The genomic region and genes potentially responsible for the biosynthesis of apigenin-6,8-di-C-α-l-arabinoside are presented as an example of a critical mQTL identified by the analysis.
22229805	Fragmentation mechanisms of ionized butylbenzene to give m/z 91 and m/z 92 fragment ions have been examined at the G3B3 and G3MP2B3 levels of theory. It is shown that the energetically favored pathways lead to tropylium, Tr(+), and methylene-2,4-cyclohexadiene, MCD(•+), ions. Formation of m/z 91 benzyl ions, Bz(+), by a simple bond fission (SBF) process, needs about 30 kJ/mol more energy than Tr(+). Possible formation of C(7)H(8)(•+) ions of structures different from the retro-ene rearrangement (RER) product, MCD(•+), has been also considered. Comparison with experimental data of this "thermometer" system is done through a kinetic modeling using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) and orbiting transition state (OTS) rate constant calculations on the G3MP2B3 0 K energy surface. The results agree with previous experimental observation if (i) the competitive formation of Tr(+) and Bz(+) is taken into account in the m/z 91 pathway, and (ii) the stepwise character of the RER fragmentation is introduced in the m/z 92 fragmentation route.
22230400	Arabinoxylan rice bran (MGN-3/Biobran) is a potent biological response modifier (BRM) that activates natural killer (NK) cells, T cells and monocytes. Currently, little is known regarding the effects of MGN-3 on dendritic cells (DCs), the cell type that bridges innate and adaptive immunity. Therefore, we examined the stimulatory effects of MGN-3 on DCs. Human monocyte-derived DCs were treated with MGN-3 at different concentrations (5-20 microg/ml) for 24 hours in vitro. Activation of DCs was determined by assessing the expression of co-stimulatory and maturation markers (CD40, CD80, CD83, CD86 and HLA-DR) by flow cytometry, and production of cytokines by ELISA. DC function was determined by assessing their ability to activate naïve T cells. Activation of T cells was assessed by measuring cell proliferation and cytokine production. MGN-3 treatment, in a dose-dependent manner, resulted in: 1) up-regulation of the surface expression of CD83 and CD86, on DCs; 2) an increase in the production of pro-inflammatory and immuno-regulatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha, IL-12p40 and low levels of IL-12p70 and IL-2) by DCs; and 3) MGN-3 stimulated DC induced CD4+T cell proliferation and their production of cytokines, IFN-gamma, IL-10, IL-17. Results suggest that MGN-3 functions as a natural adjuvant for DC activation and thus may be used in DC-based vaccine strategies against infections and cancer.
22230427	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is one of the most widespread problems for crop production on acid soils, and nitric oxide (NO) is a key signaling molecule involved in the mediation of various biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. Here we found that exogenous application of the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) exacerbated the inhibition of Al-induced root growth in rice bean [Vigna umbellata (Thunb.) Ohwi & Ohashi 'Jiangnan', Fabaceae]. This was accompanied by an increased accumulation of Al in the root apex. However, Al treatments had no effect on endogenous NO concentrations in root apices. These results indicate that a change in NO concentration is not the cause of Al-induced root growth inhibition and the adverse effect of SNP on Al-induced root growth inhibition should result from increased Al accumulation. Al could significantly induce citrate efflux but SNP had no effects on citrate efflux either in the absence or presence of Al. On the other hand, SNP pretreatment significantly increased Al-induced malondialdehyde accumulation and Evans Blue staining, indicating an intensification of the disruption of plasma membrane integrity. Furthermore, SNP pretreatment also caused greater induction of pectin methylesterase activity by Al, which could be the cause of the increased Al accumulation. Taken together, it is concluded that NO exacerbates Al-induced root growth inhibition by affecting cell wall and plasma membrane properties.
22232022	Surmounting the constraints of limited solubilization efficiency and prime requisite of antioxidant for conventional lipid formulations, the research work explores an edge over formulation utilizing potential applicability of rice germ oil (RGO) as a multifunctional excipient. Self-microemulsifying drug delivery system (SMEDDS) of tacrolimus (TAC) was formulated with RGO, an indigenous source of gamma-oryzanol. Being the same biological source, RGO and rice bran oil (RBO) were compared and it was found that RGO have more solubilization potential for TAC (2.2-fold) as well as higher antioxidant activity (8.06-fold) than the RBO. TAC-SMEDDS was prepared using RGO/Capmul PG8 (2:3) as an oil phase, Cremophore EL as a surfactant, and Transcutol P as a cosurfactant. The approximate particle size of TAC-SMEDDS was found to be 38 nm by dynamic light scattering and 12 nm by small angle neutron scattering. The in vitro dissolution studies showed complete and rapid drug release in 30 min compared to a plain drug (<5%) and marketed capsule (<50%). AUC and C(max) were found to be 45.05 ± 15.64 ng h/ml and 3.91 ± 1.2 ng/ml for TAC-SMEDDS, 12.59 ± 5.54 ng h/ml and 0.48 ± 0.12 ng/ml for plain TAC, and 30.23 ± 10.34 ng h/ml and 2.31 ± 0.68 ng/ml for marketed formulation, respectively. The improved pharmacokinetic profile of TAC-SMEDDS is correlating to the dissolution results. Thus, gamma-oryzanol-enriched RGO acts as a potential multifunctional excipient for lipid formulations.
22232242	High pressure was applied to recombinant human lactoferrin obtained from rice (rhLF) and its effect was evaluated on the structure and activity of the protein. Treatments of 400, 500, and 650 MPa for 15 min (20 °C), were applied to rhLF at 2 mg/mL in three iron-saturation forms. The structural characteristics of the treated proteins were analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and by fluorometric analysis, and immunoreactivity by ELISA. Iron retention and binding properties and antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli O157:H7 were also studied. The results obtained indicate that the treatments at 400 and 500 MPa did not greatly modifiy the conformation of lactoferrin, meanwhile treatment at 650 MPa affected in different degrees the three forms of rhLF. With respect to antibacterial activity, only apo rhLF showed antibacterial activity against E. coli, activity that was maintained after treatment at 400 MPa, while holo and AsIs rhLF did not inhibit the growth of E. coli.
22232244	Modern Japanese sushi is derived from an archetype, narezushi, which is made by the fermentation of salted fish with rice. Several studies have demonstrated that lactic acid bacteria are dominantly present in narezushi, but no studies have addressed how microbial composition changes during fermentation. In this study, we examined changes in the microbial population in aji (horse mackerel)-narezushi during fermentation by pyrosequencing the 16S ribosomal RNA gene (rDNA). Ribosomal Database Project Classifier analysis revealed that among the 53 genera present, the Lactobacillus population drastically increased during fermentation, while the populations of other bacteria remained unchanged. Basic Local Alignment Search Tool analysis revealed that L. plantarum and L. brevis were the major species. Comparison with other fermented food microbiota indicated high product-dependency of the bacterial composition, which might have been due to the starter-free fermentation process.
22232252	The immune system of plants consists of two main arms, pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP)-triggered immunity (PTI) and effector-triggered immunity (ETI). The multiple effectors that trigger ETI are translocated into plant cells by the type III secretion system (T3SS) of pathogenic bacteria. The rice-avirulent N1141 strain of Acidovorax avenae causes ETI in rice, including hypersensitive response (HR) cell death. Sequence analysis indicated that the N1141 genome contains the hrp gene cluster (35.3 kb), including genes encoding the T3SS apparatus. The T3SS-defective N1141 mutant (NΔT3SS) did not cause HR cell death, suggesting that ETI is caused by translocation of effector proteins into rice cells via T3SS. Computational sequence analysis predicted that Lrp, HrpW, and HrpY are secreted by T3SS. The hrpY deletion mutant (NΔhrpY) did not cause ETI, suggesting that HrpY is an important effector of ETI in the interaction between A. avenae N1141 and rice.
22232383	Sucrose-nonfermentation1-related protein kinase1 (SnRK1) is an evolutionarily conserved energy sensor protein that regulates gene expression in response to energy depletion in plants. Efforts to elucidate the functions and mechanisms of this protein kinase are hampered, however, by inherent growth defects of snrk1-null mutant plants. To overcome these limitations and study SnRK1 functions in vivo, we applied a method combining transient expression in leaf mesophyll protoplasts and stable expression in transgenic plants. We found that both rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) SnRK1 activities critically influence stress-inducible gene expression and the induction of stress tolerance. Genetic, molecular, and chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses further revealed that the nuclear SnRK1 modulated target gene transcription in a submergence-dependent manner. From early seedling development through late senescence, SnRK1 activities appeared to modulate developmental processes in the plants. Our findings offer insight into the regulatory functions of plant SnRK1 in stress-responsive gene regulation and in plant growth and development throughout the life cycle.
22232624	Recently, an increase in the number of patients sensitized to rice allergen with or without clinical symptoms has been reported. This study was designed to determine the major allergens in rice and their clinical significance. Twenty-four children (15 boys and 9 girls; mean age, 16.3 months) with allergic disease, who were sensitized to rice antigen (by UniCAP) in the Pediatric Allergy Respiratory Center at Soonchunhyang University Hospital, were enrolled in this study. The allergenicity of various types of rice (raw, cooked, and heat-treated, simulated gastric fluid [SGF], and simulated intestinal fluid [SIF]) was investigated using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunoglobulin E (IgE) immunoblots. The patients' medical records, including laboratory data and allergy symptoms after ingestion of rice were reviewed. Patients were sensitized to an average of 13.5 food antigens and their mean total IgE was 6,888.7 kU/L. In SDS-PAGE, more than 16 protein bands were observed in the raw rice, whereas only 14-16 kDa and 31-35 kDa protein bands were observed in cooked rice. The common SDS-PAGE protein bands observed in SGF-, SIF-, and heat-treated rice were 9, 14, and 31 kDa. In a heated-rice IgE immunoblot, protein bands of 9, 14, and 31-33 kDa were found in 27.8%, 38.9%, and 38.9% of all sera, respectively, and in 50%, 50%, and 75%, of ser a from the 4 symptomatic patients, respectively. The 9-, 14-, and 31-kDa protein bands appeared to be the major allergens responsible for rice allergy symptoms.
22233054	Previously, seventeen extracellular polysaccharide-associated mutants of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) were acquired from our randomly Tn5-inserted mutant library. To know the Tn5-inserted genes of these mutants and their contribution to EPS production and virulence in rice, in this study, we first identified and characterized the Tn5-targeted genes in these mutants and then inoculated them in susceptible rice for virulence assessment. Tn5 transposon was inserted in genes of the gum, xan and wxoc clusters in the majority of EPS-reduced mutants. Of the EPS-reduced mutants, three were due to the Tn5 insertion in Xoryp_4217, Xoryp 2488 and Xoryp_0918 genes, respectively. In six EPS-increased mutants, three were in mutagenesis in fimO, pilY and xopQ genes, respectively, resulting in higher EPS production than the wild-type strain RS105. Other three were because of the mutation in Xoryp2392, Xoryp_4221 and Xoryp_3511 genes. Interestingly, XocORF-3511 only exists in X. oryzae but not in other Xanthomomas species. Virulence assays in rice showed that the less EPS production by the mutant, the weaker the virulence in rice. However, those mutants in higher EPS production did not increase virulence significantly in rice compared to that by the wild-type strain. Our findings will help further understand the metabolic pathways for EPS synthesis in Xoc and the specific roles of EPS-associated genes in Xoc-rice interactions.
22233442	The rice rat (Oryzomys palustris) develops periodontitis-like lesions when fed a diet rich in sucrose and casein (H-SC). We aimed to establish whether this model can accurately mimic the development of human periodontitis. For this purpose, 28-day-old rice rats (15/group) were assigned to standard (STD) or H-SC diets and sacrificed after 6, 12, and 18 weeks. Jaws were processed for morphometric, histometric, histologic, histomorphometric, and micro-CT analyses. We found a progressive increase in horizontal alveolar bone loss (ABL) with age in maxillae of rats fed the STD diet as determined by morphometry. The H-SC diet exacerbated horizontal ABL at the palatal surface at 12 and 18 weeks. Furthermore, increased vertical ABL was detected in mandibles and maxillae of rats fed the H-SC diet for 12 and/or 18 weeks by histometry and micro-CT. Remarkably, the H-SC diet significantly increased bone remodeling at the interproximal alveolar bone of mandibles from rats fed for 6 weeks, but not in those fed for longer periods. These findings indicate that the H-SC diet induced a transient increase in alveolar bone remodeling, which is followed by ABL characteristic of moderate periodontitis.
22233571	Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), a gram positive soil bacteria was first identified and named by Japanese microbiologist Shigetane Ishiwata in 1901. During sporulation Bt produces proteinaceous parasporal crystal proteins called δ-endotoxins, or Cry proteins, which are insecticidal. Numerous Cry proteins have been isolated and characterized from different Bt strains with activity against insects, mites and nematodes. Sprayable formulations containing these Cry proteins as active ingredients have contributed significantly in the field of insect pest management. Since the first cloning of cry genes from Bt,1 scientists have successively demonstrated that plants could be genetically engineered to express these cry genes for the control of dreadful insect pests. Eventually, the first transgenic crop expressing Btcry1Ac gene in cotton was approved in 1996 for commercial cultivation in the USA to manage bollworms.
22234819	Rice tungro disease, one of the major constraints to rice production in South and Southeast Asia, is caused by a combination of two viruses: Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) and Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV). The present study was undertaken to determine the genetic variation of RTSV population present in tungro endemic states of Indian subcontinent. Phylogenetic analysis based on coat protein sequences showed distinct divergence of Indian RTSV isolates into two groups; one consisted isolates from Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh), Cuttack (Orissa), and Puducherry and another from West Bengal, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu), and Kanyakumari (Tamil Nadu). The results obtained from phylogenetic study were further supported with the SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphism), INDELs (insertion and deletion) and evolutionary distance analysis. In addition, sequence difference count matrix revealed 2-68 nucleotides differences among all the Indian RTSV isolates taken in this study. However, at the protein level these differences were not significant as revealed by Ka/Ks ratio calculation. Sequence identity at nucleotide and amino acid level was 92-100% and 97-100%, respectively, among Indian isolates of RTSV. Understanding of the population structure of RTSV from tungro endemic regions of India would potentially provide insights into the molecular diversification of this virus.
22234968	Results of three nationwide fertiliser efficiency studies in recent history in China are reviewed. The results indicate that after a long history using organic recycling to maintain soil fertility in China, nitrogen (N) became the first yield-limiting nutrient in the first national fertiliser efficiency study in 1935-1940. With N fertilisation being used, phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) deficiencies were gradually revealed and developed in the following national fertiliser efficiency studies in 1958-1962 and 1981-1983. Research conducted through the International Plant Nutrition (IPNI) cooperative network in China in 2000-2006 indicates that agronomic efficiencies of N fertiliser (yield increase per kilogram from the application of 1 kg N) for rice, wheat and maize are 11.7 kg, 10.8 kg and 12.2 kg grain per kilogram of N, respectively, while crop recovery efficiency of N (percentage of N taken up by plant in total N applied) with rice, wheat and maize were 24.8%, 35.7% and 30.5%, respectively. Both agronomic efficiency and crop recovery efficiency of N are significantly lower than the average N use efficiency reported in international literature for other countries. Current agronomic efficiency of P and K are also discussed. Measures to improve fertiliser use in China are discussed.
22235268	Rice paddies have been identified as major methane (CH(4)) source induced by human activities. As a major rice production region in Northern China, the rice paddies in the Three-Rivers Plain (TRP) have experienced large changes in spatial distribution over the recent 20 years (from 1990 to 2010). Consequently, accurate estimation and characterization of spatiotemporal patterns of CH₄ emissions from rice paddies has become an pressing issue for assessing the environmental impacts of agroecosystems, and further making GHG mitigation strategies at regional or global levels. Integrating remote sensing mapping with a process-based biogeochemistry model, Denitrification and Decomposition (DNDC), was utilized to quantify the regional CH(4) emissions from the entire rice paddies in study region. Based on site validation and sensitivity tests, geographic information system (GIS) databases with the spatially differentiated input information were constructed to drive DNDC upscaling for its regional simulations. Results showed that (1) The large change in total methane emission that occurred in 2000 and 2010 compared to 1990 is distributed to the explosive growth in amounts of rice planted; (2) the spatial variations in CH₄ fluxes in this study are mainly attributed to the most sensitive factor soil properties, i.e., soil clay fraction and soil organic carbon (SOC) content, and (3) the warming climate could enhance CH₄ emission in the cool paddies. The study concluded that the introduction of remote sensing analysis into the DNDC upscaling has a great capability in timely quantifying the methane emissions from cool paddies with fast land use and cover changes. And also, it confirmed that the northern wetland agroecosystems made great contributions to global greenhouse gas inventory.
22235888	Rice [Oryza sativa L. (Gramineae)] bran is a rich source of phytochemicals. Its oil also contains several bioactive components that exhibit antioxidative properties such as ferulic acid (F), γ-oryzanol (O), and phytic acid (P) which can be a new source of cosmetic raw materials. To evaluate the anti-aging effects of the gel and cream containing niosomes entrapped with the rice bran bioactive compounds. The semi-purified rice bran extracts containing F, O, and P which indicated the growth stimulation of human fibroblasts and the inhibition of MMP-2 by sulforhodamine B and gelatin zymography, respectively, were entrapped in niosomes by supercritical carbon dioxide fluid (scCO(2)) and incorporated in gel and cream formulations. The skin hydration, elasticity, thickness and roughness, and pigmentation in human volunteers after treated with these gel and creams were investigated by corneometer, cutometer, visiometer, and mexameter, respectively. Gel and cream containing the semi-purified rice bran extracts entrapped in niosomes gave no sign of erythema and edema detected within 72 h on the shaved rabbit skin by the closed patch test investigated by mexameter and visual observation, respectively. These formulations also demonstrated higher hydration enhancement and improvement of skin lightening, thickness, roughness, and elasticity on the skin of 30 human volunteers within the 28-day treatment not more than 9, 27, 7, 3, and 3 times, respectively. The formulations containing niosomes entrapped with the rice bran bioactive compounds gave superior clinical anti-aging activity which can be applied as a novel skin product.
22235902	Endophytic fungi are little known for exogenous secretion of phytohormones and mitigation of salinity stress, which is a major limiting factor for agriculture production worldwide. Current study was designed to isolate phytohormone producing endophytic fungus from the roots of cucumber plant and identify its role in plant growth and stress tolerance under saline conditions. We isolated nine endophytic fungi from the roots of cucumber plant and screened their culture filtrates (CF) on gibberellins (GAs) deficient mutant rice cultivar Waito-C and normal GAs biosynthesis rice cultivar Dongjin-byeo. The CF of a fungal isolate CSH-6H significantly increased the growth of Waito-C and Dongjin-byeo seedlings as compared to control. Analysis of the CF showed presence of GAs (GA1, GA3, GA4, GA8, GA9, GA12, GA20 and GA24) and indole acetic acid. The endophyte CSH-6H was identified as a strain of Paecilomyces formosus LHL10 on the basis of phylogenetic analysis of ITS sequence similarity. Under salinity stress, P. formosus inoculation significantly enhanced cucumber shoot length and allied growth characteristics as compared to non-inoculated control plants. The hypha of P. formosus was also observed in the cortical and pericycle regions of the host-plant roots and was successfully re-isolated using PCR techniques. P. formosus association counteracted the adverse effects of salinity by accumulating proline and antioxidants and maintaining plant water potential. Thus the electrolytic leakage and membrane damage to the cucumber plants was reduced in the association of endophyte. Reduced content of stress responsive abscisic acid suggest lesser stress convened to endophyte-associated plants. On contrary, elevated endogenous GAs (GA3, GA4, GA12 and GA20) contents in endophyte-associated cucumber plants evidenced salinity stress modulation. The results reveal that mutualistic interactions of phytohormones secreting endophytic fungi can ameliorate host plant growth and alleviate adverse effects of salt stress. Such fungal strain could be used for further field trials to improve agricultural productivity under saline conditions.
22235904	Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 is an endophytic betaproteobacterium able to colonize rice roots without induction of visible disease symptoms. BH72 possesses one polar flagellum. The genome harbors three copies of putative fliC genes, generally encoding the major structural protein flagellin. It is not clear whether, in endophytic interactions, flagella mediate endophytic competence or act as MAMPs (microbe-associated molecular patterns) inducing plant defense responses. Therefore, possible functions of the three FliC proteins were investigated. Only fliC3 was found to be highly expressed in pure culture and in association with rice roots and to be required for bacterial motility, suggesting that it encodes the major flagellin. Endophytic colonization of rice roots was significantly reduced in the in-frame deletion mutant, while the establishment of microcolonies on the root surface was not affected. Moreover, an elicitation of defense responses related to FliC3 was not observed. In conclusion, our data support the hypothesis that FliC3 does not play a major role as a MAMP but is required for endophytic colonization in the Azoarcus-rice interaction, most likely for spreading inside the plant.
22236045	The aim of this study is to develop, characterize and evaluate (in vitro and in vivo) a novel colon-targeted bioadhesive microsphere (BAM) containing metronidazole (MTZ). BAMs are prepared using Assam Bora rice starch as a natural bioadhesive polymer by a double emulsion solvent evaporation method. The prepared microspheres showed a uniform spherical shape, with excellent retention time. The in vitro drug release study of the optimized formulations, in different physiological environments, confirmed the insignificant release of metronidazole in the physiological conditions of the stomach (10 - 12.5%) and small intestine (< 25%). Further, fast and major drug release in cecal content (> 90) indicated that the release of the drug was unaffected by the hostile environment of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT). In vitro bacterial inhibition studies illustrated that MTZ loaded BAMs, inhibiting metronidazole-sensitive Bacteroides fragilis and selected BAMs (F1 - F7), have an equivalent or higher zone of inhibition than the marketed formulation. An in vivo organ distribution study of MTZ revealed that Assam Bora rice starch-based microspheres were relatively intact in the upper part of GIT, and the drug was released only after reaching the colon, owing to the microbial degradation of Assam Bora rice starch by microflora residing in the colon. MTZ release patterns exhibited slow and extended release over longer periods of time, which shows the potential of Assam Bora rice starch microspheres as a drug carrier for an effective colon-targeted delivery system.
22236520	Selenium (Se) shows both beneficial and toxic effects on plant growth. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings cultivated under lower concentrations of sodium selenite showed enhanced growth, whereas higher concentrations of sodium selenite repressed seedling growth. To acquire detailed regulatory mechanisms underlying these effects, a comparative proteomics study using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF/TOF MS was performed. By comparison of gel images between Se treatments and control, 66 and 97 differentially expressed proteins were identified in shoot and root, respectively under at least one of the Se treatment concentrations. Gene Ontology and Clustering analysis reveal primary metabolism, photosynthesis and redox homeostasis are the most highly affected biological processes by Se treatments. Lower Se treatments (2 and 6 mg/L sodium selenite) activated antioxidative system, enhanced photosynthesis and primary metabolism. However, higher Se treatment (10mg/L sodium selenite) damaged photosynthesis apparatus, inhibited photosynthesis and primary metabolism. Protein ubiquitination and phosphorylation may also play important roles in Se response in rice. In conclusion, our study provided novel insights into Se response in rice at the proteome level, which are expected to be highly useful for dissecting the Se response pathways in higher plants and for producing Se enriched rice cultivars in the future.
22236699	GT factors are the founding members of the trihelix transcription factor family. They bind GT elements in light regulated genes, and their nature was uncovered in a burst of activity in the 1990s. Study of the trihelix family then slowed. However, interest is now re-awakening. Genomic studies have revealed 30 members of this family in Arabidopsis and 31 in rice, falling into five clades. Newly discovered functions involve responses to salt and pathogen stresses, the development of perianth organs, trichomes, stomata and the seed abscission layer, and the regulation of late embryogenesis. Thus the time is ripe for a review of the genomic and functional information now emerging for this neglected family.
22238157	Rice BGlu1 β-glucosidase nucleophile mutant E386G is a glycosynthase that can synthesize p-nitrophenyl (pNP)-cellooligosaccharides of up to 11 residues. The X-ray crystal structures of the E386G glycosynthase with and without α-glucosyl fluoride were solved and the α-glucosyl fluoride complex was found to contain an ordered water molecule near the position of the nucleophile of the BGlu1 native structure, which is likely to stabilize the departing fluoride. The structures of E386G glycosynthase in complexes with cellotetraose and cellopentaose confirmed that the side chains of N245, S334, and Y341 interact with glucosyl residues in cellooligosaccharide binding subsites +2, +3, and +4. Mutants in which these residues were replaced in BGlu1 β-glucosidase hydrolyzed cellotetraose and cellopentaose with k(cat) /K(m) values similar to those of the wild type enzyme. However, the Y341A, Y341L, and N245V mutants of the E386G glycosynthase synthesize shorter pNP-cellooligosaccharides than do the E386G glycosynthase and its S334A mutant, suggesting that Y341 and N245 play important roles in the synthesis of long oligosaccharides. X-ray structural studies revealed that cellotetraose binds to the Y341A mutant of the glycosynthase in a very different, alternative mode not seen in complexes with the E386G glycosynthase, possibly explaining the similar hydrolysis, but poorer synthesis of longer oligosaccharides by Y341 mutants.
22238222	This article provides the transcript for the Panel on Developing a Biomaterials Curriculum held at the 2011 annual meeting of the Society for Biomaterials in Orlando, FL. The panelists were Thomas R. Harris of Vanderbilt University, Jack Lemons of the University of Alabama, Birmingham, Antonios G. Mikos of Rice University, David A. Puleo on the University of Kentucky, Frederick J. Schoen of Harvard Medical School, and Johnna S. Temenoff of Georgia Tech/Emory. The panelists, each an expert in engineering education and textbook author, presented their perspectives on key issues of developing undergraduate and graduate curricula that contain a biomaterials focus. The presentations were followed by a lively and informative discussion with the audience. A redacted portion of this discussion is included.
22239707	In this work, four nonionic surfactants based on sorbitan monolaurate (Span 20) were synthesized by introducing ethylene oxide gas (n = 20, 40, 60, 80 ethylene oxide units) into Span 20 to give four new surfactants with different hydrophilic-lipophilic balance (HLB), namely, E(20), E(40), E(60), and E(80). The structures of the prepared nonionic surfactants were elucidated using Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) and (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The surface-tension measurements were recorded. The effects of the prepared nonionic surfactants on the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of microwave/alkali-pretreated rice straw to produce ethanol were investigated. From the obtained data, it was found that the addition of the nonionic surfactants at 2.5 g/L had a positive effect on SSF. The maximum ethanol yield (76 and 55%) was obtained after 72 hr for rice straw using Kluyveromyces marxianus and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, respectively. Also, it was found that the ethanol yield increases with increasing HLB of the prepared nonionic surfactants by increasing ethylene oxide units. The adsorption of nonionic surfactants on lignocelluloses is proposed to be due to hydrophobic and hydrogen bonding interactions between nonionic surfactants and the lignin part in the lignocelulose. It can be concluded that additions of surface-active compounds, such as nonionic surfactants, increase enzymatic conversion of rice straw for bioethanol purposes.
22242703	Yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. unguiculata Sesquipedalis Group) (2n = 2x = 22) is one of the most important vegetable legumes of Asia. The objectives of this study were to develop a genetic linkage map of yardlong bean using SSR makers from related Vigna species and to identify QTLs for pod length. The map was constructed from 226 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. unguiculata Unguiculata Group), azuki bean (Vigna angularis (Willd.) Ohwi & Ohashi), and mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) in a BC(1)F(1) ((JP81610 × TVnu457) × JP81610) population derived from the cross between yardlong bean accession JP81610 and wild cowpea (Vigna unguiculata subsp. unguiculata var. spontanea) accession TVnu457. The markers were clustered into 11 linkage groups (LGs) spanning 852.4 cM in total length with a mean distance between adjacent markers of 3.96 cM. All markers on LG11 showed segregation distortion towards the homozygous yardlong bean JP81610 genotype. The markers on LG11 were also distorted in the rice bean (Vigna umbellata (Thunb.) Ohwi & Ohashi) map, suggesting the presence of common segregation distortion factors in Vigna species on this LG. One major and six minor QTLs were identified for pod length variation between yardlong bean and wild cowpea. Using flanking markers, six of the seven QTLs were confirmed in an F(2) population of JP81610 × TVnu457. The molecular linkage map developed and markers linked to pod length QTLs would be potentially useful for yardlong bean and cowpea breeding.
22242864	Integral subcellular and cellular functions ranging from gene expression, protein targeting and nutrient supply to cell differentiation and cell death require proteases. Plants have unique organelles such as chloroplasts composed of unique proteins that carry out the unique process of photosynthesis. Hence, along with proteases common across kingdoms, plants contain unique proteases. Improved knowledge on proteases can lead to a better understanding of plant development, differentiation and death. Because of their importance in multiple processes, plant proteases are actively studied. However, root proteases specifically are not as well studied. The associated rhizosphere, organic matter and/or inorganic matter make roots a difficult system. Yet recent research conclusively demonstrated the occurrence of endocytosis of proteins, peptides and even microbes by root cells, which, hitherto known for specialized pathogenesis or symbiosis, was unsuspected for nutrient uptake. These results reinforced the importance of root proteases in endocytosis or root exudate-mediated nutrient uptake. Rhizoplane, rhizosphere or in planta protease action on proteins, peptides and microbes generates sources of nitrogen, especially during abiotic stresses such as drought. This article highlights the recent research on root proteases for nitrogen uptake and the connection of the two to drought-tolerance mechanisms. Drought-induced proteases in rice roots, as known from rice expression databases, are discussed for future research on certain M50, Deg, FtsH, AMSH and deubiquitination proteases. The recent emphasis on linking drought and plant hydraulics to nutrient metabolism is illustrated and connected to the value of a systematic study of root proteases in crop improvement.
22243416	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae), is an important pest of rice. To better understand the migration pattern and population structure of the Chinese populations of N. lugens, we developed and characterized 12 polymorphic microsatellites from the expressed sequence tags database of N. lugens. The occurrence of these simple sequence repeats was assessed in three populations collected from three provinces of China. The number of alleles per locus ranged from 3 to 13 with an average of 6.5 alleles per locus. The mean observed heterozygosity of the three populations ranged from 0.051 to 0.772 and the expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.074 to 0.766. The sequences of the 12 markers were highly variable. The polymorphism information content of the 12 markers was high and ranged from 0.074 to 0.807 (mean = 0.503). Sequencing of microsatellite alleles revealed that the fragment length differences were mainly due to the variation of the repeat motif. Significant genetic differentiation was detected among the three N. lugens populations as the Fst ranged from 0.034 to 0.273. Principle coordinates analysis also revealed significant genetic differentiation between populations of different years. We conclude that these microsatellite markers will be a powerful tools to study the migration routine of the N. lugens.
22243810	Simultaneous analysis of multiple functional-related phytohormones and their metabolites will improve our understanding of interactions among different hormones in the same biologic process. A method was developed for simultaneous quantification of multiple phytohormones, abscisic acid, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), jasmonic acid (JA), and salicylic acid, hormone conjugates, IAA-aspartic acid, JA-isoleucine, and methyl JA, and phytoalexins, momilactone A, naringenin, and sakuranetin. This method combines a convenient procedure for preparing filtrated crude extracted samples and a sensitive quantification assay using ultra fast liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (UFLC-ESI-MS). With this method, we determined the dynamic profiles of defense-related phytohormones, hormone metabolites, and phytoalexins in the interaction of rice with Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which causes bacterial blight, one of the most devastating diseases of rice worldwide. This UFLC-ESI-MS method is convenient, sensitive, reliable, and inexpensive for quantification of multiple phytohormones and metabolites compared to current methods. The results obtained by application of this method in studying rice-bacterial interaction provide a basis for understanding the molecular mechanisms of rice defense responses.
22243838	Members of the Wheat-Induced Resistance 1 (TaWIR1) gene family are highly induced in response to a wide range of pathogens. Homologues have been identified in barley, but not in Brachypodium, whereas, in rice, only distant WIR1 candidates are known. Phylogenetic analysis placed TaWIR1a and TaWIR1b within a distinct clade of wheat transcripts, whereas TaWIR1c clustered with HvWIR1 genes. Transcripts of all three TaWIR1 genes were strongly induced by a wheat-adapted isolate of Magnaporthe oryzae. Virus-induced gene silencing of the TaWIR1 gene family had no effect on the initial penetration of epidermal cells by M. oryzae. However, following the establishment of an infection site, the fungus was able to grow more extensively within the leaf tissue, relative to control leaves, indicating a role for the TaWIR1 gene family in the cell-to-cell movement of M. oryzae. In contrast, the silencing of TaWIR1 transcripts had no effect on epidermal cell penetration by a wheat-adapted isolate of Blumeria graminis, or on the subsequent growth of hyphae. Differential transcription of TaWIR1 genes was also seen in epidermal peels, relative to the remaining leaf tissue, following inoculation with M. oryzae.
22243865	Rice consumption has been identified as a major route of methylmercury (MeHg) exposure in some areas of inland China. We investigated two potential mitigation methods (water management and deliberate selection of rice cultivars) to reduce the amount of total mercury (Hg) and MeHg within the grain. Rice grown aerobically had markedly reduced total Hg and MeHg concentrations as well as a much lower proportion of MeHg in the grain. Remarkably, there were considerable variations in the total Hg and MeHg concentrations as well as the proportion of MeHg in the grain among the 24 cultivars grown in the same paddy soil. The Hg tolerance index (expressed as % mean of control root growth) also varied substantially among the different cultivars. Furthermore, negative correlations were found between the total Hg and MeHg concentrations (P<0.05) of grain and the proportion of MeHg in the grain (P<0.01).
22243870	Rice, used as staple food for half of the world population, can easily accumulate arsenic (As) into its grain, which often leads to As contamination. The health risk induced by presence of As in food depends on its release from the food matrix, i.e., its bioaccessibility. Using an in vitro gastrointestinal simulator, we incubated two types of cooked rice (total As: 0.389 and 0.314 mg/kg). Arsenic bioaccessibility and speciation changes were determined upon gastrointestinal digestion. Washing with deionized water and cooking did not result in changes of As speciation in the rice although the arsenic content dropped by 7.1-20.6%. Arsenic bioaccessibility of the cooked rice in the small intestine ranged between 38 and 57%. Bioaccessibility slightly increased during digestion in the simulated small intestine and decreased with time in the simulated colon. Significant speciation changes were noted in the simulated colon, with trivalent monomethylarsonate (MMA(III)) becoming an important species.
22243893	The aim of this study was to evaluate the spatial dissipation gradient of PAHs, including phenanthrene, pyrene, and benzo[a]pyrene, with various bioavailability represented with sequential extraction. Dissipation rates of PAHs in the rhizosphere were greater than those in the bulk soil. The n-butanol extracted fraction showed a general trend of dissipation during phytoremediation. Moreover, the formation of bound PAH residues was inhibited in the rhizosphere. While concerning the PAH toxicity, the reduction rates of PAH toxicity were significantly greater than total soil PAH concentrations. Microbial biomass was the highest at four mm away from the root surface. However, the PAH dissipation rates were the highest at one mm and two mm away from the root surface in high and low PAH treatments, respectively. These results suggest that rhizoremediation with rice is a useful approach to reduce the toxicity of PAHs in soil.
22244302	As shown in the literature, additional energies are necessary for the reduction of positively charged noble metal ions to prepare metal nanoparticles (NPs). In this work, we report a new green pathway to prepare Au NPs in neutral 0.1M NaCl aqueous solutions from bulk Au substrates without addition of any stabilizer and reductant just via aid of natural chitosan (Ch) at room temperature. Au- and Ch-containing complexes in aqueous solution were electrochemically prepared. The role of Ch is just an intermediate to perform electron transfer with Au NPs. The stability of these prepared Au NPs is well maintained by Au NPs themselves with slightly positively charged Au remained on the surface of Au NPs. The particle size of prepared spherical Au (111) NPs is ca. 15 nm in diameter. Moreover, increasing the pH of preparation solutions can be contributive to preparing concentrated Au NPs in solutions. The prepared Au NPs are surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS)-active for probe molecules of Rhodamine 6G. They also demonstrate significantly catalytic activity for decomposition of acetaldehyde in rice wine.
22244973	Fine and ultrafine carbonaceous aerosols produced from burning biomasses hold enormous importance in terms of assessing radiation balance and public health hazards. As such, volatility and mixing states of size-selected ultrafine particles (UFP) emitted from rice straw, oak, and pine burning were investigated by using volatility tandem differential mobility analyzer (VTDMA) technique in this study. Rice straw combustion produced unimodal size distributions of emitted aerosols, while bimodal size distributions from combustions of oak (hardwood) and pine (softwood) were obtained. A nearness of flue gas temperatures and a lower CO ratio of flaming combustion (FC) to smoldering combustion (SC) were characteristic differences found between softwood and hardwood. SC emitted larger mode particles in higher numbers than smaller mode particles, while the converse was true for FC. Rice straw open burning UFPs exhibited a volatilization behavior similar to that between FC and SC. In addition, internal mixing states were observed for size-selected UFPs in all biomasses for all combustion conditions, while external mixing states were only observed for rice straw combustion. Results for FC and open burning suggested there was an internal mixing of volatile organic carbon (OC) and non-volatile core (e.g., black carbon (BC)), while the SC in rice straw produced UFPs devoid of non-volatile core. Also, it was found that volatility of constituting OC in FC and SC particles was different.
22245854	Spatiotemporal characteristics and impact of ambient air-quality attributed to open burning of rice straw were analyzed and estimated with measured data. Two multivariate analytic methods, factor analysis and cluster analysis, were adopted to analyze the temporal and spatial impact on ambient air-quality during the rice straw burning episode. Temporal features of three scenarios were cited to compare the concentrations for ambient air-quality between the rice straw burning episode and non-episodes over two typical stations by factor analysis. Factor analysis demonstrated that the first rotational component, identified as being highly correlated to the open burning of rice straw, accounts for about 40% of the concentration variance for ambient air-quality. In typical air-quality stations, the average hourly incremental concentrations between the episode and non-episodes were greater than 300 μg m(-3) for PM(10), 1.0 ppm for CO and 35 ppb for NO(2) during the impact of rice straw burning. Factor analysis presented that the first rotated component was highly correlated with several primary pollutants (NO(2), NMHC, PM(10) and CO) during the rice straw burning episode, while every component was only highly correlated with a unique air pollutant during non-episodes. The delineation isopleths indicated that factor analysis could serve as a better method than cluster analysis and provides cross-county cooperation for local governments located in the same separated district during the rice straw burning season. The results of factor analysis revealed that CO is the best index to demonstrate the impact of rice straw burning than the other six air pollutants measured during the episode. Backward trajectory analysis supplied a cause-effect relationship between measured stations and specific rice planted regions during the rice straw burning episode.
22246111	Early interactions between invading penetration hyphae of the pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and rice cells occur at the apoplast, the free diffusional space outside the plasma membrane of leaves. After initial colonization, intercellular hyphae are again in intimate contact with the rice apoplast. While several studies have looked at proteomics in rice-Magnaporthe interactions, none have focused on apoplast localized proteins. We adjusted a protocol for intercellular washing fluids (IWF) to rice leaves infected with Magnaporthe oryzae for proteomic analysis. In our IWF extract, we identified several proteins associated with compatible or incompatible pathogen interactions. Three DUF26 domain proteins were identified as changing in abundance 12 h after inoculation, confirming DUF26 domain-containing proteins are among early, pathogen stress-responsive proteins induced by infection with Magnaporthe oryzae. A Magnaporthe cyclophilin, previously identified as a virulence factor was also identified in the intercellular washing fluid.
22246661	The Osmyb4 rice gene, coding for a transcription factor, proved to be efficient against different abiotic stresses as a trans(cis)gene in several plant species, although the effectiveness was dependent on the host genomic background. Eight barley transgenic lines carrying the rice Osmyb4 gene under the control of the Arabidopsis cold inducible promoter cor15a were produced to test the efficiency of this gene in barley. After a preliminary test, the best performing lines were subjected to freezing at -11°C and -12°C. Frost tolerance was assessed measured the F(v)/F(m) parameter widely used to indicate the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II photochemistry in the dark adapted state. Three transgenic lines showed significantly increased tolerance. These selected lines were further studied under a complex stress applying cold and hypoxia at germinating stage. In these conditions the three selected transgenic lines outperformed the wild type barley in terms of germination vigour. The transgenic plants also showed a significant modification of their metabolism under cold/hypoxia conditions as demonstrated through the assessment of the activity of key enzymes involved in anoxic stress response. None of the transgenic lines showed dwarfism, just a slight retarded growth. These results provide evidence that the cold dependent expression of Osmyb4 can efficiently improved frost tolerance and germination vigour at low temperature without deleterious effect on plant growth.
22247252	The cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) phenotype in plants can be reversed by the action of nuclear-encoded fertility restorer (Rf) genes. The molecular mechanism involved in Rf gene-mediated processing of CMS-associated transcripts is unclear, as are the identities of other proteins that may be involved in the CMS-Rf interaction. In this study, we cloned the restorer gene Rf5 for Hong-Lian CMS in rice and studied its fertility restoration mechanism with respect to the processing of the CMS-associated transcript atp6-orfH79. RF5, a pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein, was unable to bind to this CMS-associated transcript; however, a partner protein of RF5 (GRP162, a Gly-rich protein encoding 162 amino acids) was identified to bind to atp6-orfH79. GRP162 was found to physically interact with RF5 and to bind to atp6-orfH79 via an RNA recognition motif. Furthermore, we found that RF5 and GRP162 are both components of a restoration of fertility complex (RFC) that is 400 to 500 kD in size and can cleave CMS-associated transcripts in vitro. Evidence that a PPR protein interacts directly with a Gly-rich protein to form a subunit of the RFC provides a new perspective on the molecular mechanisms underlying fertility restoration.
22247270	All higher plants contain an ent-kaurene oxidase (KO), as such a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 701 family member is required for gibberellin (GA) phytohormone biosynthesis. While gene expansion and functional diversification of GA-biosynthesis-derived diterpene synthases into more specialized metabolism has been demonstrated, no functionally divergent KO/CYP701 homologs have been previously identified. Rice (Oryza sativa) contains five CYP701A subfamily members in its genome, despite the fact that only one (OsKO2/CYP701A6) is required for GA biosynthesis. Here we demonstrate that one of the other rice CYP701A subfamily members, OsKOL4/CYP701A8, does not catalyze the prototypical conversion of the ent-kaurene C4α-methyl to a carboxylic acid, but instead carries out hydroxylation at the nearby C3α position in a number of related diterpenes. In particular, under conditions where OsKO2 catalyzes the expected conversion of ent-kaurene to ent-kaurenoic acid required for GA biosynthesis, OsKOL4 instead efficiently reacts with ent-sandaracopimaradiene and ent-cassadiene to produce the corresponding C3α-hydroxylated diterpenoids. These compounds are expected intermediates in biosynthesis of the oryzalexin and phytocassane families of rice antifungal phytoalexins, respectively, and can be detected in rice plants under the appropriate conditions. Thus, it appears that OsKOL4 plays a role in the more specialized diterpenoid metabolism of rice, and our results provide evidence for divergence of a KO/CYP701 family member from GA biosynthesis. This further expands the range of enzymes recruited from the ancestral GA primary pathway to the more complex and specialized labdane-related diterpenoid metabolic network found in rice.
22247560	OsGEN-L has a 5'-flap endonuclease activity and plays an essential role in rice microspore development. The Class 4 RAD2/XPG family nucleases, including OsGEN-L, were recently found to have resolving activity for the Holliday junction (HJ), the intermediate of DNA strand recombination. In this study, we performed a detailed characterization of OsGEN-L, as a structure-specific endonuclease. Highly purified OsGEN-L was prepared as the full-length protein for in vitro endonuclease assays using various structured DNAs, and the 5'-flap endonuclease activity, which is stimulated in a PCNA-dependent manner, was demonstrated. In addition, the in vitro HJ resolving activity of OsGEN-L represents the first such activity originating from plant cells. OsGEN-L cleaved HJ at symmetrically related sites of the branch point. However, the two branched strands seemed to be cleaved individually, and not cooperatively, by each OsGEN-L monomer protein. The substrate specificity suggests that OsGEN-L functions in multiple processes of DNA metabolism in rice cells.
22248149	MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathways have been implicated in stress signalling in plants. In the present study, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening to identify partner MAPKs for OsMKK (Oryza sativa MAPK kinase) 6, a rice MAPK kinase, and revealed specific interactions of OsMKK6 with OsMPK3 and OsMPK6. OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 each co-immunoprecipitated OsMKK6, and both were directly phosphorylated by OsMKK6 in vitro. An MBP (myelin basic protein) kinase assay of the immunoprecipitation complex indicated that OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 were activated in response to a moderately low temperature (12°C), but not a severely low temperature (4°C) in rice seedlings. A constitutively active form of OsMKK6, OsMKK6DD, showed elevated phosphorylation activity against OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 in vitro. OsMPK3, but not OsMPK6, was constitutively activated in transgenic plants overexpressing OsMKK6DD, indicating that OsMPK3 is an in vivo target of OsMKK6. Enhanced chilling tolerance was observed in the transgenic plants overexpressing OsMKK6DD. Taken together, our data suggest that OsMKK6 and OsMPK3 constitute a moderately low-temperature signalling pathway and regulate cold stress tolerance in rice.
22248178	Gut-associated lymphoid tissue maintains mucosal homeostasis by combating pathogens and inducing a state of hyporesponsiveness to food antigens and commensal bacteria. Dietary modulation of the intestinal immune environment represents a novel approach for enhancing protective responses against pathogens and inflammatory diseases. Dietary rice bran consists of bioactive components with disease-fighting properties. Therefore, we conducted a study to determine the effects of whole dietary rice bran intake on mucosal immune responses and beneficial gut microbes. Mice were fed a 10% rice bran diet for 28 days. Serum and fecal samples were collected throughout the study to assess total immunoglobulin A (IgA) concentrations. Tissue samples were collected for cellular immune phenotype analysis, and concentrations of native gut Lactobacillus spp. were enumerated in the fecal samples. We found that dietary rice bran induced an increase in total IgA locally and systemically. In addition, B lymphocytes in the Peyer's patches of mice fed rice bran displayed increased surface IgA expression compared with lymphocytes from control mice. Antigen-presenting cells were also influenced by rice bran, with a significant increase in myeloid dendritic cells residing in the lamina propria and mesenteric lymph nodes. Increased colonization of native Lactobacillus was observed in rice bran-fed mice compared with control mice. These findings suggest that rice bran-induced microbial changes may contribute to enhanced mucosal IgA responses, and we conclude that increased rice bran consumption represents a promising dietary intervention to modulate mucosal immunity for protection against enteric infections and induction of beneficial gut bacteria.
22248237	SPO11 is a key protein for promoting meiotic recombination, by generating chromatin locus- and timing-specific DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). The DSB activity of SPO11 was shown by genetic analyses, but whether SPO11 exerts DSB-forming activity by itself is still an unanswered question. DSB formation by SPO11 has not been detected by biochemical means, probably because of a lack of proper protein-folding, posttranslational modifications, and/or specific SPO11-interacting proteins required for this activity. In addition, plants have multiple SPO11-homologues. To determine whether SPO11 can cleave DNA by itself, and to identify which plant SPO11 homologue cleaves DNA, we developed a Drosophila bioassay system that detects the DSB signals generated by a plant SPO11 homologue expressed ectopically. We cytologically and genetically demonstrated the DSB activities of Arabidopsis AtSPO11-1 and AtSPO11-2, which are required for meiosis, in the absence of other plant proteins. Using this bioassay, we further found that a novel SPO11-homologue, OsSPO11D, which has no counterpart in Arabidopsis, displays prominent DSB-forming activity. Quantitative analyses of the rice SPO11 transcripts revealed the specific increase in OsSPO11D mRNA in the anthers containing meiotic pollen mother cells. The Drosophila bioassay system successfully demonstrated that some plant SPO11 orthologues have intrinsic DSB activities. Furthermore, we identified a novel SPO11 homologue, OsSPO11D, with robust DSB activity and a possible meiotic function.
22249725	Cellulase, Tween 80, and β-glucosidase loading were studied and optimized by response surface methodology to improve saccharification. Microwave alkali-pretreated rice straw used as substrate for onsite enzyme production by Aspergillus heteromorphus and Trichoderma reesei. The highest enzymatic hydrolysis (84%) was obtained from rice straw at crude enzyme loading of 10 FPU/gds of cellulase, 0.15% Tween 80, and 100 international unit/g dry solids of β-glucosidase activities. Enzymatic hydrolyzate of pretreated rice straw was used for ethanol production by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Scheffersomyces stipitis, and by co-culture of both. The yield of ethanol was 0.50, 0.47, and 0.48 g(p)/g(s) by S. cerevisiae, S. stipitis, and by co-culture, respectively, using pretreated rice straw hydrolyzate. The co-culture of S. cerevisiae and S. stipitis produced 25% more ethanol than S. cerevisiae alone and 31% more ethanol than S. stipitis alone. During anaerobic fermentation 65.08, 36.45, and 50.31 μmol/ml CO(2) released by S. cerevisiae, S. stipitis, and by co-culture, respectively. The data indicated that saccharification efficiency using optimized crude enzyme cocktail was good, and enzymatic hydrolyzate could be fermented to produce ethanol.
22249854	Ax21 (activator of Xa21-mediated immunity), a pathogen-associated molecular pattern secreted by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, can be perceived by a membrane-located pattern recognition receptor Xa21 and triggered immune responses in rice. An Ax21-derived peptide (17-amino acid) containing a sulfated tyrosine-22 (axY(S)22) is sufficient for Ax21 activity. Here, we expressed Ax21 and O-sulfated its tyrosine-22 through coexpressing a putative tyrosine sulfotransferase, raxST, and two other genes involved in the synthesis of 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The sulfated Ax21 fused with a histidine tag in its N-terminus was extracted and bound onto a Ni-NTA agarose and then cleaved with Factor Xa and CNBr in turn. Δax21Y(S)22, a 36-amino acid peptide covering axY(S)22 in the lysate supernatant, was finally yielded after ultrafiltration. The purified peptide was further verified by Tricine-SDS-PAGE and isoelectrofocusing electrophoresis. Lesion length analysis, reactive oxygen species production, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation of rice leaves inoculated with Δax21Y(S)22 confirmed the activity of the sulfated peptide. Overall, this study successfully established an efficient system for expression and purification of a sulfated peptide. In addition, the sulfotransferase activity of RaxST was confirmed for the first time.
22250738	This study evaluated the suitability of easily digested fiber sources as a supplemental fiber to improve overall fiber digestion in ruminants. First, the degradation of five fibrous feedstuffs and the stimulatory effects on rumen bacteria were examined in situ. Chickpea and lablab bean husks were selected for their potential use due to their large degradable fraction (>94%), which had a stimulatory effect on fibrolytic rumen bacteria such as Fibrobacter succinogenes. Second, a possible improvement in the digestibility of rice straw diet by husk supplementation was monitored in vivo. Four dietary treatments comprising RS (rice straw and concentrate), CHM (RS supplemented with Myanmar chickpea husk), CHE (RS with Egyptian chickpea husk) and LH (RS with lablab bean husk) were allocated to four wethers. The digestibility of acid detergent fiber was 3.1-5.5% greater in CHM and LH than RS. Total volatile fatty acid concentration was higher in LH than other treatments. Acetate proportion was higher in LH than RS. Ruminal abundance of F. succinogenes was 1.3-1.5 times greater in CHM and LH than RS. These results suggest that bean husk supplementation, especially lablab bean husk, might improve the nutritive value of rice straw diet by stimulating fibrolytic bacteria.
22250739	An experiment was conducted using 17 male buffalo calves to assess the effects of plane of nutrition on dry matter intake (DMI), daily gain (DG), body size measurement, apparent digestibility and nitrogen (N) balance. To attain 250kg BW, the calves were allocated into three groups: H, L-H and L, receiving the concentrate at 1.50% of BW, 0.75% of BW until 190kg BW and 1.50% thereafter and 0.75% of BW, respectively. The animals had ad libitum access to urea-treated rice straw (UTRS). The DMI of UTRS through the experiment was higher in L and L-H than H, showing 3.52, 2.90 and 2.62kg/day, respectively (P<0.01), but the total DMI did not differ among the treatment groups. The DG throughout the experiment was high in the order of H, L-H and L, showing 0.72, 0.57 and 0.45kg, respectively (P<0.01). The digestibility of DM, organic matter, crude protein, neutral and acid detergent fiber and N retention were higher in H than in L (P<0.05). The findings of this study thus revealed the greater DG has an advantage of shortening the growing period around 3months, and consequently increasing benefit in fattening of buffalo calves in Nepal.
22250740	This study was conducted to investigate effects of fermented mushroom (Flammulina velutipes) by-product diets on the growth performance and carcass traits in growing-fattening Berkshire pigs. The fermented diets mainly contained 40.0% mushroom by-product, 20.0% formula feed, 26.0% rice bran and supplemental 0.1% probiotics. The mixed ingredients were fermented for 5days at room temperature. Berkshire pigs (n=225) were divided into five groups and three replications. The basal diets (C) were substituted by 10% (T1), 30% (T2), 50% (T3) and 70% (T4) fermented mushroom by-product diets. Crude protein concentration and total calorie in fermented diets were significantly increased (P<0.05) at the end of fermentation days compared with initial fermentation day. Body weight gain, feed efficiency and carcass weight were significantly lower (P<0.05) in the T2, T3 and T4 groups than in the control group. Carcass grade was significantly better (P<0.05) in the pigs fed fermented diets than in the pigs fed control diet and the ratio of high grade (1 plus 2 grades) was higher in the fermented diet groups compared with the control group. Therefore, although a diet of fermented mushroom by-product decreased growth performance and feed efficiency, it improved the carcass grade in Berkshire pigs.
22251205	This study was undertaken to determine the effect of environmentally realistic concentrations of two commonly used pesticides viz., malathion and cypermethrin, using a fully 3 × 3 factorial experiments on the survivability and time of metamorphosis in a common rice paddy field frog (cricket frog) Fejervarya limnocharis under laboratory conditions. The results suggest that cypermethrin is more toxic than malathion and combinations of higher concentrations of cypermethrin (50 μg/L) with malathion (250 and 500 μg/L) are more deleterious to the survivability of tadpoles. With increasing cypermethrin concentration, the survivability of tadpole decreased (r = -0.986, P = 0.108). But cypermethrin alone induced early metamorphosis among the surviving tadpoles. However, there was a delay in the time required for metamorphosis induced by malathion and its combination with cypermethrin. The delay in metamorphosis may indicate the altered physiological fitness of the individual. The emergent froglets will be subjected to environmental stressors like high temperature and less humidity of post-monsoon tropical climate that could enhance negative influence triggered by pesticides.
22251206	Rice can be a major contributor to dietary arsenic exposure because of the relatively high total arsenic concentration compared to other grains, especially for people whose main staple is rice. This study employed in vitro gastrointestinal fluid digestion to determine bioaccessible or gastrointestinal fluid extractable arsenic concentration in rice. Thirty-one rice samples, of which 60 % were grown in the United States, were purchased from food stores in New York City. Total arsenic concentrations in these samples ranged from 0.090 ± 0.004 to 0.85 ± 0.03 mg/kg with a mean value of 0.275 ± 0.161 mg/kg (n = 31). Rice samples with relatively high total arsenic (>0.20 mg/kg, n = 18) were treated by in vitro artificial gastrointestinal fluid digestion, and the extractable arsenic ranged from 53 % to 102 %. The bioaccessibility of arsenic in rice decreases in the general order of extra long grain, long grain, long grain parboiled, to brown rices.
22251655	Although rice (Oryza sativa L.) lines that express Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxins have shown great potential for managing the major Lepidoptera pests of rice in southern China, including Sesamia inferens, their long-term use is dependent on managing resistance development to Bt toxins in pest populations. The maintenance of "natural" refuges, non-Bt expressing plants that are hosts for a target pest, has been proposed as a means to minimize the evolution of resistance to Bt toxins in transgenic plants. In the current study, field surveys and greenhouse experiments were conducted to identify host plants of S. inferens that could serve as "natural" refuges in rice growing areas of southern China. A field survey showed that 34 plant species in four families can be alternative host plants of S. inferens. Based on injury level under field conditions, rice (Oryza sativa L.); water oat (Zizania latifolia Griseb.); corn (Zea mays L.); tidalmarsh flatsedge (Cyperus serotinus Rottb.); and narrow-leaved cat-tail (Typha angustifolia Linn.) were identified as the primary host plant species of S. inferens. Greenhouse experiments further demonstrated that water oat, corn, and narrow-leaved cat-tail could support the survival and development of S. inferens. Interestingly, greenhouse experiments showed that S. inferens preferred to lay eggs on tidalmarsh flatsedge compared with the other three nonrice host species, although no pupae were found in the plants examined in field surveys. Few larvae were found to survive on tidalmarsh flatsedge in greenhouse bioassays, suggesting that tidalmarsh flatsedge could serve as a "dead-end" trap crop for S. inferens, but is not a candidate to serve as natural refuge to maintain susceptible S. inferens. Overall, these results suggest that water-oat, corn, and narrow-leaved cat-tail might serve as "natural refuge" for S. inferens in rice planting area of southern China when Bt rice varieties are planted.
22251715	Source populations of polyphagous pests often occur on host plants other than the economically damaged crop. We evaluated the contribution of patches of a non-native meadow grass, Lolium multiflorum Lam. (Poaceae), and other weeds growing in fallow fields or meadows as source hosts of an important native pest of rice, Stenotus rubrovittatus (Matsumura) (Hemiptera: Miridae), in an agricultural landscape of northern Japan. Periodical censuses of this mirid bug by using the sweeping method, vegetation surveys, and statistical analysis revealed that L. multiflorum was the only plant species that was positively correlated with the density of adult S. rubrovittatus through two generations and thus may be the most stable and important host of the mirid bug early in the season before the colonization of rice paddies. The risk and cost of such an indirect negative effect on a crop plant through facilitation of a native pest by a non-native plant in the agricultural landscape should not be overlooked.
22251716	Infestations of two stem borers, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) and Diatraea saccharalis (F.) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), were compared in noncrop grasses adjacent to rice (Oryza sativa L.) fields. Three farms in the Texas rice Gulf Coast production area were surveyed every 6-8 wk between 2007 and 2009 using quadrat sampling along transects. Although D. saccharalis densities were relatively low, E. loftini average densities ranged from 0.3 to 5.7 immatures per m(2) throughout the 2-yr period. Early annual grasses including ryegrass, Lolium spp., and brome, Bromus spp., were infested during the spring, whereas the perennial johnsongrass, Sorghum halepense (L.) Pers., and Vasey's grass, Paspalum urvillei Steud., were infested throughout the year. Johnsongrass was the most prevalent host (41-78% relative abundance), but Vasey's grass (13-40% relative abundance) harbored as much as 62% of the recovered E. loftini immatures (during the winter). Young rice in newly planted fields did not host stem borers before June. April sampling in fallow rice fields showed that any available live grass material, volunteer rice or weed, can serve as a host during the spring. Our study suggests that noncrop grasses are year-round sources of E. loftini in Texas rice agroecosystems and may increase pest populations.
22251743	Laboratory bioassays and field surveys were carried out to compare the resistance of three transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) lines including Bt-DL expressing a single gene cry1Ab, Bt-KF6 expressing stacked genes cry1Ac and CpTI genes and Bt-SY63 expressing a fusion gene cry1Ab/cry1Ac, respectively, to an important rice pest Chilo suppressalis (Walker). In addition, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were conducted to monitor the Bt protein expressions in rice leaves and stems at different rice growth stages. Results showed that all the transgenic rice lines exhibited significantly high resistance to the pest compared with their corresponding nontransformed isolines. Among the transgenic rice lines, Bt-SY63 and Bt-KF6 had higher resistance to C. suppressalis at early growth stage, but lower resistance at late stages, while the pest resistance of Bt-DL was relatively stable throughout the growing season. The results were consistent with ELISA results showing that Bt protein levels in Bt-SY63 or Bt-KF6 leaves decreased in late growth stages, but were relatively stable in Bt-DL at all growth stages. This demonstrates that the resistance to a pest by Bt plants is positively correlated with Cry protein expression levels in plant tissues. Compared with Bt-SY63 and Bt-KF6, the Bt protein expression levels were significantly lower in Bt-DL, while its resistance to C. suppressalis was the highest. This may suggest that C. suppressalis is more susceptible to Cry1Ab than to Cry1Ac. The data from the current study are valuable for decision-making for commercial use of Bt rice lines and development of appropriate pest control and resistance management strategies for the transgenic rice lines.
22252123	Risk assessments of ecological effects of transgenic rice expressing lepidoptera-Cry proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) on non-target arthropods have primarily focused on rice plants during cropping season, whereas few studies have investigated the effects in postharvest periods. Harvested rice fallow fields provide a critical over-wintering habitat for arthropods in the Chinese rice ecosystems, particularly in the southern region of the country. During 2006-08, two independent field trials were conducted in Chongqing, China to investigate the effects of transgenic Cry1Ab rice residues on non-target arthropod communities. In each trial, pitfall traps were used to sample arthropods in field plots planted with one non-Bt variety and two Bt rice lines expressing the Cry1Ab protein. Aboveground arthropods in the trial plots during the postharvest season were abundant, while community densities varied significantly between the two trials. A total of 52,386 individual insects and spiders, representing 93 families, was captured in the two trials. Predominant arthropods sampled were detritivores, which accounted for 91.9% of the total captures. Other arthropods sampled included predators (4.2%), herbivores (3.2%), and parasitoids (0.7%). In general, there were no significant differences among non-Bt and Bt rice plots in all arthropod community-specific parameters for both trials, suggesting no adverse impact of the Bt rice plant residues on the aboveground non-target arthropod communities during the postharvest season. The results of this study provide additional evidence that Bt rice is safe to non-target arthropod communities in the Chinese rice ecosystems.
22253720	The brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) is the most serious pest of rice across the world, especially in tropical climates. N. lugens nymphs and adults were exposed to high temperatures to determine their critical thermal maximum (CT(max)), heat coma temperature (HCT) and upper lethal temperature (ULT). Thermal tolerance values differed between developmental stages: nymphs were consistently less heat tolerant than adults. The mean (± SE) CT(max) of nymphs and adult females and males were 34.9±0.3, 37.0±0.2 and 37.4±0.2°C respectively, and for the HCT were 37.7±0.3, 43.5±0.4 and 42.0±0.4°C. The ULT₅₀ values (± SE) for nymphs and adults were 41.8±0.1 and 42.5±0.1°C respectively. The results indicate that nymphs of N. lugens are currently living at temperatures close to their upper thermal limits. Climate warming in tropical regions and occasional extreme high temperature events are likely to become important limiting factors affecting the survival and distribution of N. lugens.
22253868	The microRNA miR393 has been shown to play a role in plant development and in the stress response by targeting mRNAs that code for the auxin receptors in Arabidopsis. In this study, we verified that two rice auxin receptor gene homologs (OsTIR1 and OsAFB2) could be targeted by OsmiR393 (Os for Oryza sativa). Two new phenotypes (increased tillers and early flowering) and two previously observed phenotypes (reduced tolerance to salt and drought and hyposensitivity to auxin) were observed in the OsmiR393-overexpressing rice plants. The OsmiR393-overexpressing rice demonstrated hyposensitivity to synthetic auxin-analog treatments. These data indicated that the phenotypes of OsmiR393-overexpressing rice may be caused through hyposensitivity to the auxin signal by reduced expression of two auxin receptor genes (OsTIR1 and OsAFB2). The expression of an auxin transporter (OsAUX1) and a tillering inhibitor (OsTB1) were downregulated by overexpression of OsmiR393, which suggested that a gene chain from OsmiR393 to rice tillering may be from OsTIR1 and OsAFB2 to OsAUX1, which affected the transportation of auxin, then to OsTB1, which finally controlled tillering. The positive phenotypes (increased tillers and early flowering) and negative phenotypes (reduced tolerance to salt and hyposensitivity to auxin) of OsmiR393-overexpressing rice present a dilemma for molecular breeding.
22254108	The lipids extracted from rice brans were classified by thin-layer chromatography into eight fractions, and their fatty acid (FA) compositions were investigated among five different Japanese cultivars. The lipids of these rice brans comprised mainly triacylglycerols (TAG; 84.9-86.0 wt%), free FA (4.2-4.6 wt%), and phospholipids (PL; 6.5-6.7 wt%), whilst other components were also detected in minor proportions (0.2-2.1 wt%). The PL components included phosphatidyl choline (43.3-46.8 wt%) phosphatidyl ethanolamine (25.0-27.3 wt%) and phosphatidyl inositol (20.2-23.2 wt%). Comparison of the different cultivars showed, with a few exceptions, no substantial difference (P > 0.05) in FA distribution. FA distribution of TAG among the five cultivars was characterized as: unsaturated FA predominantly concentrated at the sn-2 position and saturated FA primarily occupying the sn-1 or sn-3 position in these lipids. These results suggest that the rice bran lipids may be well incorporated into our daily diet to improve nutritional value of the Japanese diet.
22256750	To establish integration processing method for pretreating and vinegar producing Corydalis yanhusuo. Different processing methods were contrasted with the traditional processing technology, and contents of corydalis B, water extract and ethanol extract in samples of different processing products were determined. The content of corydalis B were best in the samples of vacuumizing C. yanhusuo chips scaked in rice vinegar for twice or soaked in rice vinegar after chip drying. The water extract was highest in the samples of chip soaked in rice vinegar after drying, followed with chip vacuumizing twice, and there were no remarkable difference between the other samples and the traditional process. The difference of ethanol extract was not remarkable in all the samples. The study provide the feasibility of C. yanhusuo producing and concocting integration processing.
22257308	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice, produces siderophores only under iron-limiting conditions. We screened 15 400 mTn5-induced mutants of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and isolated 27 mutants that produced siderophores even under iron-replete conditions. We found that the mTn5 insertions in 25 of these mutants were in or close to six genes. Mutants with insertions in five of these genes [colS, XOO1806 (a conserved hypothetical protein), acnB, prpR and prpB] exhibited a deficiency for growth on iron-limiting medium and a decrease in virulence. Insertions in a sixth gene, XOO0007 (a conserved hypothetical protein), were found to affect the ability to grow on iron-limiting medium, but did not affect the virulence. Targeted gene disruptants for colR (encoding the predicted cognate regulatory protein for ColS) also exhibited a deficiency for growth on iron-limiting medium and a decrease in virulence. colR and colS mutants were defective in the elicitation of hypersensitive response symptoms on the nonhost tomato. In addition, colR and colS mutants induced a rice basal defence response, suggesting that they are compromised in the suppression of host innate immunity. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis demonstrated that a functional ColRS system is required for the optimal expression of several genes encoding components of the type 3 secretion system (T3SS) of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Our results demonstrate the role of several novel genes, including colR/colS, in the promotion of growth on iron-limiting medium and the virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
22257489	Previous studies demonstrated that ammonium nutrition results in higher water uptake rate than does nitrate nutrition under water stress, and thus enhances the tolerance of rice plants to water stress. However, the process by which water uptake is related to nitrogen form under water stress remains unknown. A hydroponic experiment with simulated water stress induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG6000) was conducted in a greenhouse to study the relationship between root aerenchyma formation and water uptake rate, such as xylem sap flow rate and hydraulic conductance, in two different rice cultivars (cv. 'Shanyou 63' hybrid indica and cv. 'Yangdao 6' indica, China). The results showed that root aerenchyma tissue increased in water-stressed plants of both cultivars fed by nitrate. No significant difference was found in root hydraulic conductivity and/or xylem sap flow rate between the two rice cultivars fed by ammonium regardless of water status, whereas these parameters decreased significantly in water-stressed plants fed by nitrate. It was concluded that aerenchyma that formed in the root cortex impeded the radial transport of water in the root cylinder and decreased water uptake in water-stressed rice plants fed by nitrate. Water transport occurred mainly through Hg-sensitive water channels in rice roots supplied with ammonium.
22257537	The effects of ozone exposure during the cropping season on rice grain quality were investigated in chamber experiments employing four ozone treatments (charcoal filtered air, ambient, 2× ambient, and 2.5× ambient concentration) and six genotypes. The concentrations of protein and lipids in brown rice increased significantly in response to ozone, while starch concentration and thousand kernel mass decreased. Other parameters, including the concentrations of iron, zinc, phenolics, stickiness and geometrical traits did not exhibit significant treatment effects. Total brown rice yield, protein yield, and iron yield were negatively affected by ozone. Numerous genotypic differences occurred in the response to ozone, indicating the possibility of optimizing the grain quality in high ozone environments by breeding. It is concluded that although the concentrations of two important macronutrients, proteins and lipids, increased in ozone treated grains, the implications for human nutrition are negative due to losses in total grain, protein and iron yield.
22257861	Clostridium thermocellum is known to produce the cellulosomes with efficient plant cell wall degradation ability. To bring out the maximum cellulolytic ability of the cellulosomes, it is necessary to eliminate the end product inhibition by cellobiose. Combinations of β-glucosidases from thermophilic anaerobic bacteria and Aspergillusniger and C.thermocellum S14 cellulosomes were evaluated for optimization of cellulose degradation. β-Glucosidase (CglT) from Thermoanaerobacterbrockii, in combination with cellulosomes, exhibited remarkable saccharification ability for microcrystalline cellulose. When rice straw, soaked in 28% aqueous ammonia for 7 days at 60°C, was hydrolyzed by an enzyme loading combination of 2mg cellulosome and 10 units CglT per g glucan, 91% of glucan was hydrolyzed to glucose, indicating roughly1/10 the enzyme load of a Trichodermareesei cellulase (Celluclast 1.5L) and Novozyme-188 combination is enough for the combination of C.thermocellum S14 cellulosomes and CglT to achieve the same level of saccharification of rice straw.
22258356	Xuanwei and Fuyuan are located in the southwest of China and have the highest lung cancer incidence in China, possibly even highest in the world. Dietary samples were collected from these two counties and the contamination status of sixteen polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were determined. PAH components, food constituents, dietary exposure level, as well as spatial difference, were studied in the different groups. The percentage of dietary intake to total intake of PAHs was calculated and the relationship between the dietary intake of PAHs and the abnormal lung cancer incidence was primarily discussed. The results showed that rice and potatoes were the main foods of the local residents in Xuanwei and Fuyuan. The daily exposure doses of Bap (benzo[a]pyrene), total PAHs, and TEQs (toxic equivalents) based on Bap toxicity in two counties were estimated to be 458 ng d(-1), 14,532 ng d(-1), and 896 ng d(-1), respectively, which were much less than those in other cities reported previously. The lower ingestion amount of food with a relatively higher content of PAHs, such as meat and fish, could account for the lower exposure doses. PAHs with less than 4 rings occupied a high percentage of the total PAHs in food samples. The exposure doses varied significantly among different sites and even different families at the same site. Dietary exposure was not the main exposure route of PAHs at most sites. It appears that there was not a direct relationship between dietary exposure and the lung cancer incidence. However, high ratios of dietary intake to total PAHs intake (1.33%-70.61%) were found in several areas and rational diet suggestions should be given in these areas in the future.
22258626	The aim of this study was to investigate the cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb) content of several commercially available brands of rice grains (Oryza sativa) in central Iran. A total of 67 samples of the most widely consumed brands of rice grains were purchased from local bazaar markets in Shahrekord, Iran. The first step, grains of raw rice were digested by acid digestion method and then were analyzed by atomic absorption spectrometer. The results showed that Cd concentration in rice grains ranged from 0.0378 to 0.1225 ppm dry weight and its average concentration was 0.062 ± 0.019 ppm and Pb content ranged from 0.0405 to 0.1281 ppm dry weight and its average concentration was 0.068 ± 0.0185 ppm. Cd and Pb concentrations in the sampled rice grains were lower in comparison with their upper limits (0.2 and 0.2 ppm for Cd and Pb, respectively) approved by food sanitary standard. Therefore, it can be concluded that there is no health problems due to the consumption of brands of rice grains, for these two elements. The results indicated that weekly intake of Cd and Pb from rice grains was below the provisional tolerable weekly intakes recommended by WHO/FAO.
22258804	Niosomes composed of Tween 61 and cholesterol at 1:1 molar ratio were entrapped with the mixture of the three semi-purified rice (Oryza sativa L., Family Gramineae) bran bioactive compounds [ferulic acid (F), γ-oryzanol (O), and phytic acid (P)] at 0.5%, 1.5%, and 1.5%, respectively, by the supercritical CO(2) technique. The transdermal absorption by vertical Franz diffusion cells of the compounds entrapped in niosomes (Nio FOP), the unentrapped compounds (Mixed FOP), the compounds incorporated in gel and cream (Gel FOP and Cream FOP), and the compounds entrapped in niosomes and incorporated in gel and cream (Gel nio and Cream nio) was investigated. At 6 h, F and P from Nio FOP gave lower cumulative amount in viable epidermis and dermis (VED) than from Mixed FOP of 1.1 and 1.6 times, respectively, while O from Nio FOP exhibited higher cumulative amount in VED than from Mixed FOP of 2.4 times. The highest cumulative amount in VED of F, O, and P were from Gel nio, Cream nio, and Mixed FOP at 1.564 ± 0.052, 15.972 ± 0.273, and 25.857 ± 0.025 ng/cm(2), respectively. Niosomes enhanced the transdermal absorption of the hydrophobic compound O, while retarded the hydrophilic compounds F and P indicating the less systemic risk of F and P than O when entrapped in niosomes. Thus, transdermal absorption of F, O, and P appeared to depend on niosomal size, lipophilicity of the bioactive compounds, and types of formulations. These preclinical results can be applied for the design of the clinical study of the developed rice bran niosomal topical products.
22259680	The purpose of this study was to estimate the daily manganese (Mn) intake of Korean children. This study was done using a three-day dietary intake survey of 257 Korean children (boys 123; girls 134). The Mn intake values were calculated based on a database that provides the Mn content of the frequently consumed Korean foods, alongside the food composition table provided by the Korean National Rural Living Science Institute. The average age, height, weight and body mass index of our subjects were 11.9 years, 155.4 cm, 48.9 kg and 20.2 kg/m(2) in boys and 11.9 years, 154.1 cm, 43.5 kg and 18.3 kg/m(2) in girls. The average daily energy intakes were 2,249.2 kcal in boys and 2,044.5 kcal in girls. Boys consumed significantly more Mn than girls, based on intake estimates of 4,585.3 µg (117.6% of adequate intake) and 4,029.3 µg (117.1% of adequate intake), respectively (P < 0.001). Boys had a Mn intake of 2,041.1 µg per 1,000 kcal of energy consumption, whereas for girls this was at 1,983.9 µg per 1,000 kcal. Neither group exceeded the tolerable upper intake level for Mn. The major food groups which contributed to Mn intake in our subjects were cereals (50.8%), vegetables (21.0%), seasonings (8.9%), and pulses (7.7%). Notably, boys derived a higher Mn intake through cereals and vegetable than did girls (P < 0.001, P < 0.05). The key food sources of Mn, in descending order, were rice, soybean curd, kimchi, black rice and cereals. We propose that the results of our study may be used as a basis for follow-up studies that examine the Mn intake of children.
22259681	The purpose of this study was to define a one-portion size of food frequently consumed by the Koreans aged 65 years or over. From the original 8,631 people who took part in the Forth Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES IV-2) 2008, we analyzed the data on 1,458 persons (16.9%) aged 65 and over, and selected food items consumed based on the intake frequency of 30 or more by all participant. A total of 158 varieties of food items were selected. The portion size of food items was set on the basis of the median amount (50 percentile) in a single intake by a single person. In the cereals category, 13 items were selected, of which the most frequently consumed item was well-polished rice with portion size of 75 g. Among legumes, 7 items were selected, of which the most frequent item was dried black soybean with a portion size of 6 g. Among the 16 groups, the most varied food group (49 items) was vegetables, and among these the most frequently occurring item was garlic (5 g), while among the fruit group, only 11 items were selected, as their intake frequency was low. Fish and shellfish were more frequently consumed by the elderly than meats. The most frequently consumed meat was pork loin, with a portion size of 30 g. In fish and shellfish, the most frequently consumed item was dried and boiled large anchovy with a portion size of 2 g. Portion sizes for food items consumed regularly by the elderly may be conveniently and effectively used in dietary planning and in nutritional education programs, and in assessing the diet intake status of the elderly.
22259683	The purpose of this study was to identify dietary patterns among Korean elementary school girls based on the change in body mass index (BMI), body fat, bone mineral density (BMD), and bone mineral content (BMC) during 22 months and to explore the characteristics of dietary patterns identified. Girls aged 9-11 years were recruited and 3-day dietary data were collected four times. Subjects with a diet record of 8 or more days and anthropometric data measured at baseline and 22 months later were included (n = 198). Reduced rank regression was utilized to derive dietary patterns using a change in BMI, body fat, and calcaneus BMD and BMC as response variables. Two dietary patterns were identified: the "Egg and Rice" dietary pattern and "Fruit, Nuts, Milk Beverage, Egg, Grain" (FNMBEG) dietary pattern. Subjects who had high score on the FNMBEG pattern consumed various food groups, including fruits, nuts and seeds, and dairy products, whereas subjects in the "Egg and Rice" dietary pattern group did not. Both dietary patterns showed a positive association with change in BMI and body fat. However, subjects who had a higher score on the "Egg and Rice" dietary pattern had less of a BMC increase, whereas subjects who had a higher score on the FMBEG dietary pattern had more increased BMC over 22 months after adjusting for age, body and bone mass, and Tanner stage at baseline. Our results provide evidence that a well-balanced diet contributes to lean body mass growth among young girls.
22260173	This study is part of an ongoing investigation on the effect of fermentation on chemical and antinutrient compositions of baobab seeds and rice grains. Baobab seeds and rice grains were cleaned and fermented for 24, 48, and 72 h, respectively, by the microflora present in both the seed and the grains. The pH and titratable acidity of the unfermented and fermented samples were determined. The samples were dried and milled into fine flours respectively. Standard assay techniques were used to evaluate the f lours for proximate, mineral, and some antinutrient composition. Fermentation of baobab decreased protein and carbohydrate but increased fat levels. The rice carbohydrate and fat were decreased during fermentation except for the carbohydrate of the 48 and 72 h fermented samples. Protein was only increased in the 24 h fermented rice. Fermentation had varied effects on the mineral concentrations of the baobab seeds and the rice grains. It reduced their antinutrients (phytate and tannins), decreased pH, and increased the titratable acidity of the samples. The biochemical and biological evaluation of the blends of baobab and rice flours as complementary food is in progress in this laboratory.
22260580	We investigated two-body (binary) and three-body (triple) dissociations of ethanedial, propanal, propenal, n-butane, 1-butene, and 1,3-butadiene on the ground potential-energy surfaces using quantum-chemical and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations; most attention is paid on the triple dissociation mechanisms. The triple dissociation includes elimination of a hydrogen molecule from a combination of two separate terminal hydrogen atoms; meanwhile, the rest part simultaneously decomposes to two stable fragments, e.g., C(2)H(4), C(2)H(2), or CO. Transition structures corresponding to the concerted triple dissociation were identified using the B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory and total energies were computed using the method CCSD(T)/6-311+G(3df, 2p). The forward barrier height of triple dissociation has a trend of ethanedial < propanal < propenal < n-butane < 1-butene < 1,3-butadiene, pertaining to the reaction enthalpy. Ratios of translational energies of three separate fragments could be estimated from the transition structure of triple dissociation. The synchronous concerted dissociation of propanal, propenal, and 1-butene leading to three different types of molecular fragments by breaking nonequivalent chemical bonds is rare. The triple dissociation of propanal, n-butane, 1-butene, and 1,3-butadiene were investigated for the first time. To outline a whole picture of dissociation mechanisms, some significant two-body dissociation channels were investigated for the calculations of product branching ratios. The triple dissociation plays an important role in the three carbonyl compounds, but plays a minor or negligible role in the three hydrocarbons.
22261864	Rice stripe disease (RSD), caused by rice stripe virus (RSV), is a serious disease in temperate rice-growing areas. We have created an RNAi construct containing coat protein gene (CP) and disease specific protein gene (SP) sequences from RSV. The RNAi construct was transformed into two susceptible japonica varieties, Suyunuo and Guanglingxiangjing, to develop resistance against RSD. The homozygous progeny of rice plants in the T(5) and T(7) generations containing RNAi constructs, after self-fertilization were strongly resistant to viral infection. RT-PCR indicated that viral replication of SP and CP in the transgenic plants was significantly inhibited. There were no obvious morphological or developmental differences between the transgenic and wild-type plants from seedling stage to maturity. The excellent agronomic traits of these two varieties, such as high yield and good quality were maintained. Suppression of virus genes using RNAi is therefore a practical and effective strategy for controlling viral infection in crops.
22262229	Alpha-momorcharin (α-MC), a member of the ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) family, has been used not only as antiviral, antimicrobial, and antitumor agents, but also as toxicant to protozoa, insects, and fungi. In this study, we expressed the protein in Escherichia coli Rosetta (DE3) pLysS strain and purified it by nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid affinity chromatography. A total of 85 mg of homogeneous protein was obtained from 1 l culture supernatant of Rosetta (DE3) pLysS, showing a high recovery rate of 73.9%. Protein activity assay indicated that α-MC had both N-glycosidase activity and DNA-nuclease activity, the former releasing RIP diagnostic RNA fragment (Endo's fragment) from rice rRNAs and the latter converting supercoiled circular DNA of plasmid pET-32a(+) into linear conformations in a concentration-dependent manner. Specially, we found that α-MC could inhibit the mycelial growth of Fusarium solani and Fusarium oxysporum with IC(50) values of 6.23 and 4.15 μM, respectively. Results of optical microscopy and transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that α-MC caused extensive septum formation, loss of integrity of the cell wall, separation of the cytoplasm from the cell wall, deformation of cells with irregular budding sites, and apoptosis in F. solani. Moreover, α-MC was active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa with an IC(50) value of 0.59 μM. The α-MC protein carries a high potential for the design of new antifungal drugs or the development of transgenic crops resistant to pathogens.
22262313	Lateral root (LR) development performs the essential tasks of providing water, nutrients, and physical support to plants. Therefore, understanding the regulation of LR development is of agronomic importance. In this study, we examined the effect of nitric oxide (NO), auxin, and hemin (Hm) on LR formation in rice. Treatment with Hm [a highly effective heme oxygenase (HO) inducer], sodium nitroprusside (SNP, an NO donor), or indole-3-butyric acid (IBA, a naturally occurring auxin) induced LR formation and HO activity. LR formation and HO activity induced by SNP and IBA but not Hm was reduced by the specific NO scavenger 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide. As well, Hm, SNP, and IBA could induce OsHO1 mRNA expression. Zn protoporphyrin IX (the specific inhibitor of HO) and hemoglobin (the carbon monoxide/NO scavenger) reduced LR number and HO activity induced by Hm, SNP, and IBA. Our data suggest that HO is required for Hm-, auxin-, and NO-induced LR formation in rice.
22263466	Based on a 20-year field site-specific fertilization experiment in Taoyuan Experimental Station of Agriculture Ecosystems under Chinese Ecosystem Research Network (CERN), this paper studied the effects of different fertilization modes of N, P, and K on the accumulation and allocation of C and N in rice plant. The fertilization mode N-only showed the highest C and N contents (433 g kg(-1) and 18.9 g kg(-1), respectively) in rice grain, whereas the modes balanced fertilization of chemical N, P and K (NPK) and its combination with organic mature recycling (NPKC) showed the highest storage of C and N in rice plant. In treatments NPK and NPKC, the C storage in rice grain and in stem and leaf was 1960 kg hm(-2) and 2015 kg hm(-2), and 2002 kg hm(-2) and 2048 kg hm(-2), and the N storage in rice grain was 80.5 kg hm(-2) and 80.6 kg hm(-2), respectively. Treatment NPK had the highest N storage (59.3 kg hm(-2)) in stem and leaf. Balanced fertilization of chemical N, P, and K combined with organic manure recycling increased the accumulation of C and N in rice plant significantly. Comparing with applying N only, balanced fertilization of chemical N, P, and K was more favorable to the accumulation and allocation of C and N in rice plant during its growth period.
22263476	A total of 207 householders from 13 natural villages in the Naban River Watershed National Nature Reserve were chosen for a systematic survey on the farming and livestock husbandry, aimed to evaluate the effects of planting rubber and crops on the keeping number of livestock and poultry in the study area. The livestock and poultry bred in the Reserve were mainly buffalo, Yunnan Yellow cattle, small-eared pig, Chahua chicken, and a few Banna game fowls. Exotic breeds were very limited. From 1991 to 2008, the planting area of rubber increased year by year, giving negative effects on the corn, rice, and cash crop production as well as the keeping number of livestock and poultry. Planting rubber had significant negative effects on the keeping number of buffalo and small-eared pig. The families planting rubber kept significantly less buffalo and small-eared pig, as compared to those not planting rubber. The planting areas of corn, rice, and cash crops had positive effects on the keeping number of buffalo, Yunnan Yellow cattle, and small-eared pig, and the total planting area of the crops had active effects on the keeping number of buffalo and Chahua chicken. The development of rubber production led to an obvious change in land use pattern, which in turn had significant effects on the keeping number of livestock and poultry. With the increasing rubber planting area year by year, the local livestock husbandry would be restrained.
22263481	A pot experiment with heavy metals- contaminated black soil from Heilongjiang Province, alluvial soil from Henan Province, and paddy soil from Zhejiang Province was conducted to study the effects of intercropping Sedum plumbizincicola in wheat growth season under wheat (Triticum aestivum) - rice (Oryza sativa) rotation on the growth of the crops and their heavy metals uptake, aimed to explore the feasibility of simultaneous grain production and heavy metals-contaminated soil phytoremediation in main food crop production areas of this country. Comparing with monoculture T. aestivum, intercropping S. plumbizincicola increased the soil NaNO3 -extractable Zn and Cd significantly, with the increment of extractable Zn in test paddy soil, alluvial soil, and black soil being 55%, 32% and 110%, and that of extractable Cd in test paddy soil and black soil being 38% and 110%, respectively. The heavy metals concentration in T. aestivum shoots under intercropping S. plumbizincicola was 0.1-0.9 times higher than that under monoculture T. aestivum, but the intercropping had little effects on the rice growth and its heavy metals uptake. Though the Cd concentration in rice grain after S. plumbizincicola planting was still higher than 0.2 mg kg(-1) (the limit of Cd in food standard), it presented a decreasing trend, as compared with that after monoculture T. aestivum. Therefore, intercropping S. plumbizincicola in wheat growth season under wheat-rice rota- tion could benefit the phytoremediation of heavy metals-contaminated soil, and decrease the food-chain risk of rotated rice.
22263486	The increasing concentration of atmospheric CO2 and the nutritional quality of human diets are the two important issues we are facing. At present, the atmospheric CO2 concentration is about 380 micromol mol(-1), and to be reached 550 micromol mol(-1) by 2050. A great deal of researches indicated that the quality of agricultural products is not only determined by inherited genes, but also affected by the crop growth environmental conditions. This paper summarized the common methods adopted at home and abroad for studying the effects of CO2 enrichment on the quality of agricultural products, and reviewed the research advances in evaluating the effects of elevated CO2 on the quality of rice, wheat, soybean, and vegetables. Many experimental results showed that elevated CO2 concentration causes a decrease of protein content in the grains of staple food crops and an overall decreasing trend of trace elements contents in the crops, but improves the quality of vegetable products to some extent. Some issues and future directions regarding the effects of elevated CO2 concentration on the quality of agricultural products were also discussed, based on the present status of related researches.
22264357	Mechanosensing and its downstream responses are speculated to involve sensory complexes containing Ca2+-permeable mechanosensitive channels. On recognizing osmotic signals, plant cells initiate activation of a widespread signal transduction network that induces second messengers and triggers inducible defense responses. Characteristic early signaling events include Ca2+ influx, protein phosphorylation and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Pharmacological analyses show Ca2+ influx mediated by mechanosensitive Ca2+ channels to influence induction of osmotic signals, including ROS generation. However, molecular bases and regulatory mechanisms for early osmotic signaling events remain poorly elucidated. We here identified and investigated OsMCA1, the sole rice homolog of putative Ca2+-permeable mechanosensitive channels in Arabidopsis (MCAs). OsMCA1 was specifically localized at the plasma membrane. A promoter-reporter assay suggested that OsMCA1 mRNA is widely expressed in seed embryos, proximal and apical regions of shoots, and mesophyll cells of leaves and roots in rice. Ca2+ uptake was enhanced in OsMCA1-overexpressing suspension-cultured cells, suggesting that OsMCA1 is involved in Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane. Hypo-osmotic shock-induced ROS generation mediated by NADPH oxidases was also enhanced in OsMCA1-overexpressing cells. We also generated and characterized OsMCA1-RNAi transgenic plants and cultured cells; OsMCA1-suppressed plants showed retarded growth and shortened rachises, while OsMCA1-suppressed cells carrying Ca2+-sensitive photoprotein aequorin showed partially impaired changes in cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]cyt) induced by hypo-osmotic shock and trinitrophenol, an activator of mechanosensitive channels. We have identified a sole MCA ortholog in the rice genome and developed both overexpression and suppression lines. Analyses of cultured cells with altered levels of this putative Ca2+-permeable mechanosensitive channel indicate that OsMCA1 is involved in regulation of plasma membrane Ca2+ influx and ROS generation induced by hypo-osmotic stress in cultured rice cells. These findings shed light on our understanding of mechanical sensing pathways.
22265291	Makgeolli is a traditional Korean alcoholic beverage manufactured with a natural starter, called nuruk, and grains. Nuruk is a starchy disk or tablet formed from wheat or grist containing various fungal and bacterial strains from the surrounding environment that are allowed to incorporate naturally into the starter, each of which simultaneously participates in the makgeolli fermentation process. In the current study, changes in microbial dynamics during laboratory-scale fermentation of makgeolli inoculated with six different kinds of nuruk were evaluated by barcoded pyrosequencing using fungal- and bacterial-specific primers targeting the internal transcribed spacer 2 region and hypervariable regions V1 to V3 of the 16S rRNA gene, respectively. A total of 61,571 fungal and 68,513 bacterial sequences were used for the analysis of microbial diversity in ferment samples. During fermentation, the proportion of fungal microorganisms belonging to the family Saccharomycetaceae increased significantly, and the major bacterial phylum of the samples shifted from γ-Proteobacteria to Firmicutes. The results of quantitative PCR indicated that the bacterial content in the final ferments was higher than in commercial rice beers, while total fungi appeared similar. This is the first report of a comparative analysis of bacterial and fungal dynamics in parallel during the fermentation of Korean traditional alcoholic beverage using barcoded pyrosequencing.
22265978	Wetland plants possess the unique ability to release oxygen as well as organic matter into the rhizosphere. It is understood that microbial fuel cells (MFCs) can use organic matter from plants as key electron donors, but the effect of root excreted oxygen on MFCs is presently unknown. In this study, a novel biocathode was buried in the rice rhizosphere and found to be capable of delivering electrons to root excreted oxygen for oxygen reduction reactions. The voltages between electrodes in the rhizosphere and bulk soil were found to increase initially, but dissipate after approximately 1 month. Results from the MFC and oxygen microelectrode experiments indicated that the oxygen efflux rate from rice roots was dependent on the root maturity. Furthermore, the excreted oxygen from wetland plant roots could be used for the construction of highly efficient biocathodes.
22265982	Economically feasible processes for industrial cellulosic ethanol production requires increasing the final ethanol titer during fermentation due to the high energy demands of the subsequent ethanol distillation. In the present study, high-yield ethanol production was achieved by short-term liquefaction and fermentation of lignocellulose biomass in a novel drum-type rotary fermentation system using a yeast strain developed for cell-surface display of fungal endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and β-glucosidase. In the presence of 10 FPU/g-biomass cellulase added, the recombinant cellulolytic strain produced 1.4-fold higher ethanol (89% of theoretical yield) from high-solid (200 g-dry weight/L) rice straw within 72 h of fermentation than wild type strain. Cell-surface engineering successfully reduced the amount of commercial enzyme required for the fermentation of cellulose. This study demonstrates that cellulases displayed on the yeast cell surface are capable of hydrolyzing cellulose that was not hydrolyzed by commercial cellulases, leading to increased sugar utilization for improved ethanol production.
22266099	The plant hormone jasmonic acid (JA) is known to be involved in multiple defence responses against pathogens, which include the production of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins. In order to investigate the induction mechanism of the rice defence responses by JA, we performed transcriptome analyses and focused on a chitinase gene, OsChia4a, which was identified to be one of the highest JA-inductive genes. The recombinant protein of His-tagged OsChia4a exhibited an inhibitory effect against the spore germination and hyphal growth of Magnaporthe oryzae. The promoter analysis of OsChia4a revealed that the region from -515 bp to -265 bp upstream of the ATG translation initiation site was required for the responsiveness to JA. A subsequent mutation analysis indicated that an E-box (CANNTG) in this region act as a JA-responsive cis element. These results imply that a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor is likely to be involved in the regulation of the OsChia4a expression in a JA-dependent manner.
22267004	Azospirillum brasilense is a nitrogen-fixing bacterium associated with important agricultural crops such as rice, wheat and maize. The expression of genes responsible for nitrogen fixation (nif genes) in this bacterium is dependent on the transcriptional activator NifA. This protein contains three structural domains: the N-terminal domain is responsible for the negative control by fixed nitrogen; the central domain interacts with the RNA polymerase σ(54) co-factor and the C-terminal domain is involved in DNA binding. The central and C-terminal domains are linked by the interdomain linker (IDL). A conserved four-cysteine motif encompassing the end of the central domain and the IDL is probably involved in the oxygen-sensitivity of NifA. In the present study, we have expressed, purified and characterized an N-truncated form of A. brasilense NifA. The protein expression was carried out in Escherichia coli and the N-truncated NifA protein was purified by chromatography using an affinity metal-chelating resin followed by a heparin-bound resin. Protein homogeneity was determined by densitometric analysis. The N-truncated protein activated in vivo nifH::lacZ transcription regardless of fixed nitrogen concentration (absence or presence of 20 mM NH(4)Cl) but only under low oxygen levels. On the other hand, the aerobically purified N-truncated NifA protein bound to the nifB promoter, as demonstrated by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, implying that DNA-binding activity is not strictly controlled by oxygen levels. Our data show that, while the N-truncated NifA is inactive in vivo under aerobic conditions, it still retains DNA-binding activity, suggesting that the oxidized form of NifA bound to DNA is not competent to activate transcription.
22267009	The majority of agronomic traits are controlled by multiple genes that cause minor phenotypic effects, making the identification of these genes difficult. Here we introduce MutMap, a method based on whole-genome resequencing of pooled DNA from a segregating population of plants that show a useful phenotype. In MutMap, a mutant is crossed directly to the original wild-type line and then selfed, allowing unequivocal segregation in second filial generation (F(2)) progeny of subtle phenotypic differences. This approach is particularly amenable to crop species because it minimizes the number of genetic crosses (n = 1 or 0) and mutant F(2) progeny that are required. We applied MutMap to seven mutants of a Japanese elite rice cultivar and identified the unique genomic positions most probable to harbor mutations causing pale green leaves and semidwarfism, an agronomically relevant trait. These results show that MutMap can accelerate the genetic improvement of rice and other crop plants.
22267195	We have isolated five endophytic fungi from the roots of Capsicum annuum, Cucumis sativus and Glycine max. The culture filtrates (CF) of these endophytes were screened on dwarf mutant rice (Waito-C) and normal rice (Dongjin-byeo). Endophyte CAC-1A significantly inhibited the growth of Waito-C and Dongjin-byeo. Endophyte CAC-1A was identified as Paraconiothyrium sp. by sequencing the ITS rDNA region and phylogenetic analysis. The ethyl acetate fraction of Paraconiothyrium sp. suppressed the germination of Lactuca sativa and Echinochloa crus-galli seeds. The ethyl acetate fraction of the endophyte was subjected to bioassay-guided isolation and we obtained the phytotoxic compound ascotoxin (1) which was characterized through NMR and GC/MS techniques. Ascotoxin revealed 100% inhibitory effects on seed germination of Echinochloa crus-galli. Compound (1) was isolated for the first time from Paraconiothyrium sp.
22267486	Plants use pattern recognition receptors to defend themselves from microbial pathogens. These receptors recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and activate signaling pathways that lead to immunity. In rice (Oryza sativa), the chitin elicitor binding protein (CEBiP) recognizes chitin oligosaccharides released from the cell walls of fungal pathogens. Here, we show that the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae overcomes this first line of plant defense by secreting an effector protein, Secreted LysM Protein1 (Slp1), during invasion of new rice cells. We demonstrate that Slp1 accumulates at the interface between the fungal cell wall and the rice plasma membrane, can bind to chitin, and is able to suppress chitin-induced plant immune responses, including generation of reactive oxygen species and plant defense gene expression. Furthermore, we show that Slp1 competes with CEBiP for binding of chitin oligosaccharides. Slp1 is required by M. oryzae for full virulence and exerts a significant effect on tissue invasion and disease lesion expansion. By contrast, gene silencing of CEBiP in rice allows M. oryzae to cause rice blast disease in the absence of Slp1. We propose that Slp1 sequesters chitin oligosaccharides to prevent PAMP-triggered immunity in rice, thereby facilitating rapid spread of the fungus within host tissue.
22267741	Lignin is a major component of plant cell walls that is essential to their function. However, the strong bonds that bind the various subunits of lignin, and its cross-linking with other plant cell wall polymers, make it one of the most important factors in the recalcitrance of plant cell walls against polysaccharide utilization. Plants make lignin from a variety of monolignols including p-coumaryl, coniferyl, and sinapyl alcohols to produce the three primary lignin units: p-hydroxyphenyl, guaiacyl, and syringyl, respectively, when incorporated into the lignin polymer. In grasses, these monolignols can be enzymatically preacylated by p-coumarates prior to their incorporation into lignin, and these monolignol conjugates can also be "monomer" precursors of lignin. Although monolignol p-coumarate-derived units may comprise up to 40% of the lignin in some grass tissues, the p-coumarate moiety from such conjugates does not enter into the radical coupling (polymerization) reactions of lignification. With a greater understanding of monolignol p-coumarate conjugates, grass lignins could be engineered to contain fewer pendent p-coumarate groups and more monolignol conjugates that improve lignin cleavage. We have cloned and expressed an enzyme from rice that has p-coumarate monolignol transferase activity and determined its kinetic parameters.
22268146	The major photorespiratory pathway in higher plants is distributed over chloroplasts, mitochondria, and peroxisomes. In this pathway, glycolate oxidation takes place in peroxisomes. It was previously suggested that a mitochondrial glycolate dehydrogenase (GlcDH) that was conserved from green algae lacking leaf-type peroxisomes contributes to photorespiration in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, the identification of two Arabidopsis mitochondrial alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferases (ALAATs) that link glycolate oxidation to glycine formation are described. By this reaction, the mitochondrial side pathway produces glycine from glyoxylate that can be used in the glycine decarboxylase (GCD) reaction of the major pathway. RNA interference (RNAi) suppression of mitochondrial ALAAT did not result in major changes in metabolite pools under standard conditions or enhanced photorespiratroy flux, respectively. However, RNAi lines showed reduced photorespiratory CO(2) release and a lower CO(2) compensation point. Mitochondria isolated from RNAi lines are incapable of converting glycolate to CO(2), whereas simultaneous overexpression of GlcDH and ALAATs in transiently transformed tobacco leaves enhances glycolate conversion. Furthermore, analyses of rice mitochondria suggest that the side pathway for glycolate oxidation and glycine formation is conserved in monocotyledoneous plants. It is concluded that the photorespiratory pathway from green algae has been functionally conserved in higher plants.
22268223	Bread wheat (Triticum aestivum; Poaceae) is a crop plant of great importance. It provides nearly 20% of the world's daily food supply measured by calorie intake, similar to that provided by rice. The yield of wheat has doubled over the last 40 years due to a combination of advanced agronomic practice and improved germplasm through selective breeding. More recently, yield growth has been less dramatic, and a significant improvement in wheat production will be required if demand from the growing human population is to be met. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies are revolutionizing biology and can be applied to address critical issues in plant biology. Technologies can produce draft sequences of genomes with a significant reduction to the cost and timeframe of traditional technologies. In addition, NGS technologies can be used to assess gene structure and expression, and importantly, to identify heritable genome variation underlying important agronomic traits. This review provides an overview of the wheat genome and NGS technologies, details some of the problems in applying NGS technology to wheat, and describes how NGS technologies are starting to impact wheat crop improvement.
22268451	Asian rice, Oryza sativa, consists of two major subspecies, indica and japonica, which are physiologically differentiated and adapted to different latitudes. Genes for photoperiod sensitivity are likely targets of selection along latitude. We examined the footprints of natural and artificial selections for four major genes of the photoperiod pathway, namely PHYTOCHROME B (PhyB), HEADING DATE 1 (Hd1), HEADING DATE 3a (Hd3a), and EARLY HEADING DATE 1 (Ehd1), by investigation of the patterns of nucleotide polymorphisms in cultivated and wild rice. Geographical subdivision between tropical and subtropical O. rufipogon was found for all of the photoperiod genes in plants divided by the Tropic of Cancer (TOC). All of these genes, except for PhyB, were characterized by the existence of clades that split a long time ago and that corresponded to latitudinal subdivisions, and revealed a likely diversifying selection. Ssp. indica showed close affinity to tropical O. rufipogon for all genes, while ssp. japonica, which has a much wider range of distribution, displayed complex patterns of differentiation from O. rufipogon, which reflected various agricultural needs in relation to crop yield. In japonica, all genes, except Hd3a, were genetically differentiated at the TOC, while geographical subdivision occurred at 31°N in Hd3a, probably the result of varying photoperiods. Many other features of the photoperiod genes revealed domestication signatures, which included high linkage disequilibrium (LD) within genes, the occurrence of frequent and recurrent non-functional Hd1 mutants in cultivated rice, crossovers between subtropical and tropical alleles of Hd1, and significant LD between Hd1 and Hd3a in japonica and indica.
22268496	Telomere truncation has been shown to be an efficient technology for the creation of mini-chromosomes that can be used as artificial chromosome platforms for genetic engineering. Artificial chromosome-based genetic engineering is considered to be superior to the existing techniques of randomized gene integration by Agrobacterium or biolistic-mediated genetic transformation. It organizes multiple transgenes as a unique genetic linkage block for subsequent manipulations in breeding. Telomere truncation technology relies on three components: the telomere sequence that mediates chromosomal truncation, a selection marker that allows the selection of transgenic events, and a site-specific recombination system that can be used to accept future genes into the mini-chromosome by gene targeting. These elements are usually pre-assembled before transformation, a process that is both time and labor consuming. We found in this research that the three elements could be mixed to transform plant cells in a biolistic transformation, and produced efficient chromosomal truncations and mini-chromosomes in rice. This system will allow rapid construction of mini-chromosomes with a flexible selection of resistant markers, site-specific recombination systems and other desirable elements. In addition, a rice telotrisomic line was used as the starting material for chromosomal truncations. Mini-chromosomes from the truncations of both the telocentric chromosome and other chromosomes were recovered. The mini-chromosomes remained stable during 2 years of subculture. The construction of mini-chromosomes in rice, an economically important crop, will provide a platform for future artificial chromosome-based genetic engineering of rice for stacking multiple genes.
22268610	In this study, we tested for the temporal occurrence of photosynthetic acclimation to elevated [CO₂] in the flag leaf of two important cereal crops, rice and wheat. In order to characterize the temporal onset of acclimation and the basis for any observed decline in photosynthetic rate, we characterized net photosynthesis, g(s) , g(m) , C(i) /C(a) , C(i) /C(c) , V(cmax) , J(max) , cell wall thickness, content of Rubisco, cytochrome (Cyt) f, N, chlorophyll and carbohydrate, mRNA expression for rbcL and petA, activity for Rubisco, sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) and sucrose synthase (SS) at full flag expansion, mid-anthesis and the late grain-filling stage. No acclimation was observed for either crop at full flag leaf expansion. However, at the mid-anthesis stage, photosynthetic acclimation in rice was associated with RuBP carboxylation and regeneration limitations, while wheat only had the carboxylation limitation. By grain maturation, the decline of Rubisco content and activity had contributed to RuBP carboxylation limitation of photosynthesis in both crops at elevated [CO₂]; however, the sharp decrease of Rubisco enzyme activity played a more important role in wheat. Although an increase in non-structural carbohydrates did occur during these later stages, it was not consistently associated with changes in SPS and SS or photosynthetic acclimation. Rather, over time elevated [CO₂] appeared to enhance the rate of N degradation and senescence so that by late-grain fill, photosynthetic acclimation to elevated [CO₂] in the flag leaf of either species was complete. These data suggest that the basis for photosynthetic acclimation with elevated [CO₂] may be more closely associated with enhanced rates of senescence, and, as a consequence, may be temporally dynamic, with significant species variation.
22270237	A metagenomic fosmid library containing 1 × 10(5) clones was constructed from a biogas digester fed with pig ordure and rice straw. In total, 121 clones with activity of 4-methylumbelliferyl-cellobiosidase were screened from the metagenomic library. A novel GH5 cellulase gene exo2b was identified from a sequenced clone EXO02C10 and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21. The corresponding recombinant Exo2b protein showed high specific activity toward both carboxymethylcellulose (CMC; 260 U/mg protein) and β-D-glucan from barley (849 U/mg), with an optimal pH and temperature of 7.5 and 58 °C, respectively. Exo2b showed stable activity at a wide pH range from 5.5 to 9.0 and was highly thermostable at 60 °C in the presence of 60 mM cysteine. Residual activity was maintained at nearly 100% when Exo2b was incubated at 60 °C for 15 h. A thin-layer chromatography analysis of the hydrolysis products confirmed that Exo2b was an endo-β-1,4-glucanase and it could also produce oligosaccharide smaller than cellotetraose. The fragment encoding the Exo2b catalytic domain was then fused with the cbh1 gene from Trichoderma reesei, and the fused gene was successfully expressed in T. reesei Rut-C30. Compared to that of the parent strain, the filter paper activity and CMCase activity of the secreted proteins of a selected transformant A1 increased by 24% and 18%, respectively. Besides, the glucose concentration from the hydrolysis of pretreated corn stover by the A1 secreted proteins increased by 19.8%. The present study demonstrated the potential application of metagenome originated cellulase genes to modify cellulase producing fungi.
22270238	A gene encoding laccase I was identified and cloned from the white-rot fungus Trametes sp. Ha1. Laccase I contained 10 introns and an original secretion signal sequence. After laccase I without introns was prepared by overlapping polymerase chain reaction, it was inserted into expression vector pULD1 for yeast cell surface display. The oxidation activity of a laccase-I-displaying yeast as a whole-cell biocatalyst was examined with 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) (ABTS), and the constructed yeast showed a high oxidation activity. After the pretreatment of hydrothermally processed rice straw (HPRS) with laccase-I-displaying yeast with ABTS, fermentation was conducted with yeast codisplaying endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and β-glucosidase with HPRS. Fermentation of HPRS treated with laccase-I-displaying yeast was performed with 1.21-fold higher activities than those of HPRS treated with control yeast. The results indicated that pretreatment with laccase-I-displaying yeast with ABTS was effective for direct fermentation of cellulosic materials by yeast codisplaying endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and β-glucosidase.
22270358	Pathogen/microbe- or plant-derived signaling molecules (PAMPs/MAMPs/DAMPs) or elicitors induce increases in the cytosolic concentration of free Ca(2+) followed by a series of defense responses including biosynthesis of antimicrobial secondary metabolites called phytoalexins; however, the molecular links and regulatory mechanisms of the phytoalexin biosynthesis remains largely unknown. A putative voltage-gated cation channel, OsTPC1 has been shown to play a critical role in hypersensitive cell death induced by a fungal xylanase protein (TvX) in suspension-cultured rice cells. Here we show that TvX induced a prolonged increase in cytosolic Ca(2+), mainly due to a Ca(2+) influx through the plasma membrane. Membrane fractionation by two-phase partitioning and immunoblot analyses revealed that OsTPC1 is localized predominantly at the plasma membrane. In retrotransposon-insertional Ostpc1 knock-out cell lines harboring a Ca(2+)-sensitive photoprotein, aequorin, TvX-induced Ca(2+) elevation was significantly impaired, which was restored by expression of OsTPC1. TvX-induced production of major diterpenoid phytoalexins and the expression of a series of diterpene cyclase genes involved in phytoalexin biosynthesis were also impaired in the Ostpc1 cells. Whole cell patch clamp analyses of OsTPC1 heterologously expressed in HEK293T cells showed its voltage-dependent Ca(2+)-permeability. These results suggest that OsTPC1 plays a crucial role in TvX-induced Ca(2+) influx as a plasma membrane Ca(2+)-permeable channel consequently required for the regulation of phytoalexin biosynthesis in cultured rice cells.
22270559	High-throughput RNA sequencing was performed for comprehensively analyzing the transcriptome of the purple sweet potato. A total of 58,800 unigenes were obtained and ranged from 200 nt to 10,380 nt with an average length of 476 nt. The average expression of one unigene was 34 reads per kb per million reads (RPKM) with a maximum expression of 1,935 RPKM. At least 40,280 (68.5%) unigenes were identified to be protein-coding genes, in which 11,978 and 5,184 genes were homologous to Arabidopsis and rice proteins, respectively. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that 19,707 (33.5%) unigenes were classified to 1,807 terms of GO including molecular functions, biological processes, and cellular components and 9,970 (17.0%) unigenes were enriched to 11,119 KEGG pathways. We found that at least 3,553 genes may be involved in the biosynthesis pathways of starch, alkaloids, anthocyanin pigments, and vitamins. Additionally, 851 potential simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were identified in all unigenes. Transcriptome sequencing on tuberous roots of the sweet potato yielded substantial transcriptional sequences and potentially useful SSR markers which provide an important data source for sweet potato research. Comparison of two RNA-sequence datasets from the purple and the yellow sweet potato showed that UDP-glucose-flavonoid 3-O-glucosyltransferase was one of the key enzymes in the pathway of anthocyanin biosynthesis and that anthocyanin-3-glucoside might be one of the major components for anthocyanin pigments in the purple sweet potato. This study contributes to the molecular mechanisms of sweet potato development and metabolism and therefore that increases the potential utilization of the sweet potato in food nutrition and pharmacy.
22270695	A better understanding of salt tolerance in plants might lead to the genetic engineering of crops that can grow in saline soils. Here we cloned and characterized plasma membrane and vacuolar Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters of a monocotyledonous alkaline-tolerant halophyte, Puccinellia tenuiflora. The predicted amino acid sequence of the transporters were very similar to those of orthologs in monocotyledonous crops. Expression analysis showed that (1) NHA was more strongly induced by NaCl in the roots of P. tenuiflora while in rice it was rather induced in the shoots, suggesting that the role of NHA in salt excretion from the roots partly accounts for the difference in the tolerance of the two species, and that (2) NHXs were specifically induced by NaHCO₃ but not by NaCl in the roots of both species, suggesting that vacuolar-type Na⁺/H⁺ antiporters play roles in pH regulation under alkaline salt conditions. Overexpression of the antiporters resulted in increased tolerance of shoots to NaCl and roots to NaHCO₃. Overexpression lines exhibited a lower Na⁺ content and a higher K⁺ content in shoots under NaCl treatments, leading to a higher Na⁺/H⁺ ratio.
22271252	The production of extracellular xylanase by a locally isolated strain of Aspergillus tubingensis JP-1 was studied under solid-state fermentation. Among the various agro residues used wheat straw was found to be the best for high yield of xylanase with poor cellulase production. The influence of various parameters such as initial pH, moisture, moistening agents, nitrogen sources, additives, surfactants and pretreatment of substrates were investigated. The production of the xylanase reached a peak in 8 days using untreated wheat straw with modified MS medium, pH 6.0 at 1:5 moisture level at 30 °C. Under optimized conditions yield as high as 6,887 ± 16 U/g of untreated wheat straw was achieved. Crude xylanase was used for enzymatic saccharification of agro-residues like wheat straw, rice bran, wheat bran, sugarcane bagasse and industrial paper pulp. Dilute alkali (1 N NaOH) and acid (1 N H(2)SO(4)) pretreatment were found to be beneficial for the efficient enzymatic hydrolysis of wheat straw. Dilute alkali and acid-pretreated wheat straw yielded 688 and 543 mg/g reducing sugar, respectively. Yield of 726 mg/g reducing sugar was obtained from paper pulp after 48 h of incubation.
22271304	As a primary characteristic of substantial equivalence, the evaluation of unintended effects of genetically modified plants has been evolving into an important field of research. In this study, a metabolic profiling method for rice seeds was developed using rapid resolution liquid chromatography/quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The analytical properties of the method, including the linearity, reproducibility, intra-day precision and inter-day precision, were investigated and were found to be satisfactory. The method was then applied to investigate the differences between transgenic rice and its native counterparts, in addition to the differences found between native rice with different sowing dates or locations. Global metabolic phenotype differences were visualized, and metabolites from different discriminated groups were discovered using multivariate data analysis. The results indicated that environmental factors played a greater role than gene modification for most metabolites, including tryptophan, 9,10,13-trihydroxyoctadec-11-enoic acid, and lysophosphatidylethanolamine 16:0. The concentrations of phytosphingosine, palmitic acid, 5-hydroxy-2-octadenoic acid and three other unidentified metabolites varied slightly due to gene modification.
22271747	The highly conserved plant microRNA, miR156, is an essential regulator for plant development. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), miR156 modulates phase changing through its temporal expression in the shoot. In contrast to the gradual decrease over time in the shoot (or whole plant), we found that the miR156 level in rice (Oryza sativa) gradually increased from young leaf to old leaf after the juvenile stage. However, the miR156-targeted rice SQUAMOSA-promoter binding-like (SPL) transcription factors were either dominantly expressed in young leaves or not changed over the time of leaf growth. A comparison of the transcriptomes of early-emerged old leaves and later-emerged young leaves from wild-type and miR156 overexpression (miR156-OE) rice lines found that expression levels of 3,008 genes were affected in miR156-OE leaves. Analysis of temporal expression changes of these genes suggested that miR156 regulates gene expression in a leaf age-dependent manner, and miR156-OE attenuated the temporal changes of 2,660 genes. Interestingly, seven conserved plant microRNAs also showed temporal changes from young to old leaves, and miR156-OE also attenuated the temporal changes of six microRNAs. Consistent with global gene expression changes, miR156-OE plants resulted in dramatic changes including precocious leaf maturation and rapid leaf/tiller initiation. Our results indicate that another gradient of miR156 is present over time, a gradual increase during leaf growth, in addition to the gradual decrease during shoot growth. Gradually increased miR156 expression in the leaf might be essential for regulating the temporal expression of genes involved in leaf development.
22273463	Rice is the staple food for more than half of the world's population and, hence, the main source of a vital micronutrient, zinc (Zn). Unfortunately, the bioavailability of Zn from rice is very low not only due to low content but also due to the presence of some antinutrients such as phytic acid. We investigated the effect of germination and Zn fortification treatment on Zn bioavailability of brown rice from three widely grown cultivars using the Caco-2 cell model to find a suitable fortification level for producing germinated brown rice. The results of this study showed that Zn content in brown rice increased significantly (p < 0.05) as the external Zn concentrations increased from 25 to 250 mg/L. In contrast, no significant influence (p > 0.05) on germination percentage of rice was observed when the Zn supply was lower than 150 mg/L. Zn fortification during the germination process has a significant impact on the Zn content and finally Zn bioavailability. These findings may result from the lower molar ratio of phytic acid to Zn and higher Zn content in Zn fortified germinated brown rice, leading to more bioavailable Zn. Likewise, a significant difference (p < 0.05) was found among cultivars with respect to the capacity for Zn accumulation and Zn bioavailability; these results might be attributed to the difference in the molar ratio of phytic acid to Zn and the concentration of Zn among the cultivars evaluated. Based on global intake of Zn among the world population, we recommend germinated brown rice fortified with 100 mg/L ZnSO(4) as a suitable concentration to use in the germination process, which contains high Zn concentration and Zn bioavailability. In the current study, the cultivar Bing91185 fortified with Zn through the germination process contained a high amount as well as bioavailable Zn, which was identified as the most promising cultivar for further evaluation to determine its efficiency as an improved source of Zn for target populations.
22273817	The blattisociid mite Lasioseius floridensis Berlese was found associated with the broad mite, Polyphagotarsonemus latus (Banks), on gerbera leaves in Mogi das Cruzes, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Blattisociid mites are not common on aerial plant parts, except under high air humidity levels. Some Lasioseius species have been mentioned as effective control agents of rice pest mites, but nothing is known about the biology of L. floridensis. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the observed co-occurrence of L. floridensis and P. latus was just occasional or whether the latter could be important as food source for the former, assumed by laboratory evaluation of the ability of the predator to maintain itself, reproduce and develop on that prey. Biological parameters of L. floridensis were compared when exposed to P. latus and to other items as food. The study showed that mating is a pre-requisite for L. floridensis to oviposit and that oviposition rate was much higher on the soil nematode Rhabditella axei (Cobbold) (Rhabditidae) than on P. latus. Ovipositon on the acarid mite Tyrophagus putrescentiae (Schrank) was about the same as on P. latus, but it was nearly zero when the predator was fed the fungi Aspergillus flavus Link or Penicillium sp., or cattail (Typha sp.) pollen. Survivorship was higher in the presence of pollen and lower in the presence of A. flavus or Penicillium sp. than in the absence of those types of food. Life table parameters indicated that the predator performed much better on R. axei than on P. latus. To evaluate the potential effect of L. floridensis as predator of P. latus, complementary studies are warranted to determine the frequency of migration of L. floridensis to aerial plant parts, when predation on P. latus could occur.
22274594	Transgenic plants have become developed as bioreactors for producing heterologous proteins and may even form edible vaccines. In the present study, a transgenic rice expressing the capsid precursor polypeptide (P1) gene of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), under the control of a dual cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV 35S) promoter, was generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Southern blot, northern blot, western blot, and ELISA analyses confirmed that the P1 gene was integrated into the transgenic rice and the protein was expressed specifically in the leaves at levels of 0.6-1.3 μg/mg of total soluble protein. After intraperitoneal immunization of mice with crude protein extracts from transgenic rice plants, FMDV-specific neutralizing antibodies were detected. The immunized mice could clear virus from their sera after FMDV challenge. In addition, FMDV-specific mucosal immune responses were detected in mice after oral immunization with protein extracts from transgenic rice plants. Partial virus clearance was obtained after FMDV challenge. These results indicate the potential of using a transgenic rice-based expression system as an alternative bioreactor for FMDV subunit vaccines.
22274888	Transposable elements (TEs) represent an important fraction of plant genomes and play a significant role in gene and genome evolution. Among all TE superfamilies discovered in plants, Mutator from maize (Zea mays) is the most active and mutagenic element. Mutator-like elements (MULEs) were identified in a wide range of plants. However, only few active MULEs have been reported, and the transposition mechanism of the elements is still poorly understood. In this study, an active MULE named Os3378 was discovered in rice (Oryza sativa) by a combination of computational and experimental approaches. The four newly identified Os3378 elements share more than 98% sequence identity between each other, and all of them encode transposases without any deletion derivatives, indicating their capability of autonomous transposition. Os3378 is present in the rice species with AA genome type but is absent in other non-AA genome species. A new insertion of Os3378 was identified in a rice somaclonal mutant Z418, and the element remained active in the descendants of the mutant for more than ten generations. Both germinal and somatic excision events of Os3378 were observed, and no footprint was detected after excision. Furthermore, the occurrence of somatic excision of Os3378 appeared to be associated with plant developmental stages and tissue types. Taken together, Os3378 is a unique active element in rice, which provides a valuable resource for further studying of transposition mechanism and evolution of MULEs.
22278768	The wheat GPC-B1 gene located on chromosome 6B is an early regulator of senescence and affects remobilization of protein and minerals to the grain. GPC-B1 is a NAC transcription factor and has a paralogous copy on chromosome 2B in wheat, GPC-B2. The closest rice homolog to both wheat GPC genes is Os07g37920 which is located on rice chromosome 7 and is colinear with GPC-B2. Since rice is a diploid species with a sequenced genome, we initiated the study of Os07g37920 to develop a simpler model to study senescence and mineral remobilization in cereals. We developed eleven independent RNA interference transgenic rice lines (Os07g37920-RNAi) and 10 over-expressing transgenic lines (Os07g37920-OE), but none of them showed differences in senescence. Transgenic Os07g37920-RNAi rice plants had reduced proportions of viable pollen grains and were male-sterile, but were able to produce seeds by cross pollination. Analysis of the flower morphology of the transgenic rice plants showed that anthers failed to dehisce. Transgenic Os07g37920-OE lines showed no sterility or anther dehiscence problems. Os07g37920 transcript levels were higher in stamens compared to leaves and significantly reduced in the transgenic Os07g37920-RNAi plants. Wheat GPC genes showed the opposite transcription profile (higher transcript levels in leaves than in flowers) and plants carrying knock-out mutations of all GPC-1 and GPC-2 genes exhibited delayed senescence but normal anther dehiscence and fertility. These results indicate a functional divergence of the homologous wheat and rice NAC genes and suggest the need for separate studies of the function and targets of these transcription factors in wheat and rice.
22279655	To establish a stable in vivo gastrointestinal model of WZS mini-pig to evaluate the digestibility of rice genetically modified with CpTI (Cowpea Trypsin Inhibitor). METHODS; Three WZS mini-pigs were surgically fitted with O-stomach cannula and T-ileum cannula, and fed with soybean (positive control), CpTI rice and its parental rice meals. The pH value of gastric and intestinal fluid was monitored at different time points. The digested protein products were measured with protein gel electrophoresis at different time points. The pH value of gastric contents was rapidly neutralized by the meal to approximately 6.0, then the pH was reduced by HCl secretion,and it subsequently was increased after 4-6 hours. Compared with rice,the increase or decrease of pH after soybean being fed was later. Soybean protein segments 13kD,17kD, 34kD and 50kD could be highly detected in gastric and intestinal fluid at 5-6h after soybean being introduced. The segment 13kD was digested in intestine. However, no any protein segment was found in the gastric fluid 0.25h after rice being fed. There was no any difference in digestibility between the rice genetically modified with CpTI and its parental rice. It is practicable to establish a in vivo model of WZS mini-pig for digestibility. The digestibility of CpTI rice and its parental rice in gastric and intestinal tract in vivo is equivalent.
22279918	To investigate the impacts of enhanced UV-B radiation on respiration rate, CH4 and N2O emission fluxes from soil-rice system, outdoor pot experiment was carried out during the rice growing season in 2004. The enhanced UV-B radiation treatments were simulated by a 20% increase in its intensity. The gas emission fluxes were measured by static chamber-gas chromatograph method. Results showed that enhanced UV-B radiation (T) did not change the seasonal patterns of respiration rate, CH4 and N2O emission. Compared to the control, mean respiration rate of T was decreased by 3.11%, from (1 306.83 +/- 100.21) mg x (m2 x h)(-1) to (1 266.23 +/- 147.60) mg x (m2 x h)(-1); Mean CH4 fluxes was decreased by 15.84%, from (2.40 +/- 0.48) mg x (m2 x h)(-1) to (2.02 +/- 0.52) mg x (m2 x h)(-1); Mean N2O emission fluxes of T was increased by 5.41%, from (217.45 +/- 1.72) microg x (m2 x h)(-1) to (229.22 +/- 26.02) microg x (m2 x h)(-1), while there no significant differences (P > 0.05). Our findings suggested that enhanced UV-B radiation had no significant effects on respiration rate, CH4 and N2O emission fluxes of soil-rice system.
22280009	The objective of this study was to develop a technique for determining the country of origin of rice in the Japanese market. The rice samples included a total of 350 products grown in Japan (n = 200), the United States (n = 50), China (n = 50), and Thailand (n = 50). In this study, (87)Sr/(86)Sr and Pb isotope ((204)Pb, (206)Pb, (207)Pb, and (208)Pb) ratios and multielement concentrations (Al, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Rb, Sr, and Ba) were determined by high-resolution inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. By combining three chemometric techniques based on different principles and determination criteria, the countries of origin of rice were determined. The predictions made by 10-fold cross-validation were around 97% accurate. The presented method demonstrated the effectiveness of determining the geographic origin of an agricultural product by combining several chemometric techniques using heavy element isotope ratios and multielement concentrations.
22280081
22280454	Previous studies have established that red mold rice can regulate blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and that Monascus -fermented products, including monacolin K, ankaflavin (AF), and monascin (MS), can inhibit expression of adhesion factors such as E-selectin and endothelin-1 to prevent human acute monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1 monocytes from adhering to human aortic endothelial cells. However, it remains unknown whether AF and MS act directly on human umbilical endothelial cells (HUVECs) to enhance nitric oxide (NO) synthesis through the stimulation of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) expression. To address this knowledge gap, this study investigated whether AF and MS directly regulate NO synthesis and attenuate adhesion factor expression induced by treatment with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in HUVECs. The results revealed that both AF and MS (20 μM) treatments promoted increases in eNOS expression and decreases in vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), E-selectin, and endothelin-1 mRNA and protein expression resulting from 12 h of TNF-α treatment. These effects are attributed to the ability of AF and MS to inhibit extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) translocation from the cytoplasm into the nucleus, thereby exerting antihypertensive activity.
22280762	Molecular dynamics simulations of supported shock waves (shock pressure P(s) ∼ 15 GPa) propagating along the [110], [011], [101], and [111] directions in crystalline nitromethane initially at T = 200 K were performed using the nonreactive Sorescu-Rice-Thompson force field [D. C. Sorescu, B. M. Rice, and D. L. Thompson, J. Phys. Chem. B 104, 8406 (2000)]. These simulations, combined with those from a preceding study of shocks propagating along [100], [010], and [001] directions in nitromethane for similar conditions of temperature and shock pressure [L. He, T. D. Sewell, and D. L. Thompson, J. Chem. Phys. 134, 124506 (2011)], have been used to study the post-shock relaxation phenomena. Shocks along [010] and [101] lead to a crystal-crystal structure transformation. Shocks propagating along [011], [110], [111], [100], and [001] exhibit plane-specific disordering, which was characterized by calculating as functions of time the 1D mean square displacement (MSD), 2D radial distribution function (RDF), and 2D orientation order parameter P(2)(θ) in orthogonal planes mutually perpendicular to the shock plane; and by calculating as functions of distance behind the shock front the Cartesian components of intermolecular, intramolecular, and total kinetic energies. The 2D RDF results show that the structural disordering for shocks along [100], [110], and [111] is strongly plane-specific; whereas for shocks along [001] and [011], the loss of crystal structural order is almost equivalent in the orthogonal planes perpendicular to the shock plane. Based on the entire set of simulations, there is a trend for the most extensive disordering to occur in the (010) and (110) planes, less extensive disordering to occur in the (100) plane, and essentially no disordering to occur in the (001) plane. The 2D P(2)(θ) and 1D MSD profiles show, respectively, that the orientational and translational disordering is plane-specific, which results in the plane-specific structural disordering observed in the 2D RDF. By contrast, the kinetic energy partitioning and redistribution do not exhibit plane specificity, as shown by the similarity of spatial profiles of the Cartesian components of the intermolecular, intramolecular, and total kinetic energies in orthogonal planes perpendicular to the shock plane.
22280796	Plant-specific group VII Ethylene Response Factor (ERF) transcription factors have emerged as pivotal regulators of flooding and low oxygen responses. In rice (Oryza sativa), these proteins regulate contrasting strategies of flooding survival. Recent studies on Arabidopsis thaliana group VII ERFs show they are stabilized under hypoxia but destabilized under oxygen-replete conditions via the N-end rule pathway of targeted proteolysis. Oxygen-dependent sequestration at the plasma membrane maintains at least one of these proteins, RAP2.12, under normoxia. Remarkably, SUB1A, the rice group VII ERF that enables prolonged submergence tolerance, appears to evade oxygen-regulated N-end rule degradation. We propose that the turnover of group VII ERFs is of ecological relevance in wetland species and might be manipulated to improve flood tolerance of crops.
22281146	The purpose of this study was to explore the impact of feedstock collection and torrefaction pretreatment on the efficiency of a biomass co-firing system. Considering the transformation of existing municipal solid waste incinerators, several scenarios in which biomass supply chains depend on centralised pretreatment and transportation alternatives are presented. The cost, net energy output, and greenhouse gas effects of these scenarios were analysed using a spreadsheet model. Based on the Taoyuan County case in Taiwan, the mitigation costs of carbon emissions for rice straw and Pennisetum are 77.0 $/Mg CO(2) and 63.8 $/Mg CO(2), respectively. Results indicate that transporting feedstock from its source to the pretreatment and co-firing stations contributes the most to logistical costs for both straw and Pennisetum, regardless of whether torrefaction was adopted. Nonetheless, torrefaction requires more demonstrated cases at various scales to obtain the technical and economic data required for further analysis.
22283028	Field studies often use caregiver-reported diarrhoea and related symptoms to measure child morbidity. There are various vernacular terms to define diarrhoea that vary across the local cultural contexts. The relationship between vernacular definitions of diarrhoea and symptoms-based definitions is not well-documented. This paper describes the association of the vernacular Quechua term k'echalera with the symptoms-based standard definition of diarrhoea in rural Bolivian settings. During a cluster randomized trial in rural Bolivia, both signs and symptoms of diarrhoea and reports of k'echalera were collected for children aged less than five years. Reported k'echalera were found to be associated with important changes in stool frequency, consistency, and presence of blood and mucus. Reported k'echalera were highly related to three of four recorded categories of watery stool. The intermediate (milk-rice) stool consistency, which fits into the definition of watery stool, was not strongly related to k'echalera. Mucus in the stool was also associated with k'echalera; however, its presence in k'echalera-free days accounted for at least 50% of the possible false negatives. The sensitivity and specificity of the term k'echalera were estimated by Bayesian methods, allowing for both symptoms of diarrhoea and reports of k'echalera to be subject to diagnosis error. An average specificity of at least 97% and the sensitivity of at least 50% were obtained. The findings suggest that the use of k'echalera would identify fewer cases of diarrhoea than a symptom-based definition in rural Bolivia.
22283029	Bacterial count in prepared food or water is a key factor in assessing the quality and safety of food. It also reveals the level of hygiene adopted by food handlers in the course of preparation of such foods. This comparative study evaluated the bacteriological quality of food and water consumed in Nsukka, Enugu state, Nigeria, using three bacteria enumeration methods. Data obtained are assumed to reflect the level of personal and environmental hygiene in the study population. Ten types of foods--beans, yam, abacha, okpa, moimoi, pear, cassava foofoo, rice, agidi, and garri--and 10 water samples were evaluated for bacteriological quality, precisely determining the level of coliform contamination, using the most probable number (MPN), lactose fermentation count (LFC), and Escherichia coli count (ECC) methods. Bacterial counts differed significantly (p < 0.05) among the various food samples. However, this did not differ significantly in the three methods used for the enumeration of coliforms, suggesting that any of the three methods could be validly used for such studies with confidence. Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae were the two major coliforms identified among 98 coliform isolates obtained from the various food samples, of which 78 (79.6%) were assumed to be of human origin on account of their ability to grow at 44 degrees C. The level of coliform contamination in the food samples from vendors and restaurants (geometric mean count 7.64-9.21; MPN > or = 50) were above the accepted 10(4) colony-forming unit/g or MPN < or = 10 limits. The results of the study, therefore, call for stringent supervision and implementation of food-safety practices and regular education on food and personal hygiene among food vendors.
22284568	The physiological role of a vacuolar ATPase subunit c1 (SaVHAc1) from a halophyte grass Spartina alterniflora was studied through its expression in rice. The SaVHAc1-expressing plants showed enhanced tolerance to salt stress than the wild-type plants, mainly through adjustments in early stage and preparatory physiological responses. In addition to the increased accumulation of its own transcript, SaVHAc1 expression led to increased accumulation of messages of other native genes in rice, especially those involved in cation transport and ABA signalling. The SaVHAc1-expressing plants maintained higher relative water content under salt stress through early stage closure of the leaf stoma and reduced stomata density. The increased K(+) /Na(+) ratio and other cations established an ion homoeostasis in SaVHAc1-expressing plants to protect the cytosol from toxic Na(+) and thereby maintained higher chlorophyll retention than the WT plants under salt stress. Besides, the role of SaVHAc1 in cell wall expansion and maintenance of net photosynthesis was implicated by comparatively higher root and leaf growth and yield of rice expressing SaVHAc1 over WT under salt stress. The study indicated that the genes contributing toward natural variation in grass halophytes could be effectively manipulated for improving salt tolerance of field crops within related taxa.
22284711	Previous results revealed that haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1)/carbon monoxide (CO) system is involved in auxin-induced adventitious root formation. In this report, a cDNA for the gene ZmHO-1, encoding an HO-1 protein, was cloned from Zea mays seedlings. ZmHO-1 has a conserved HO signature sequence and shares highest homology with rice SE5 (OsHO-1) protein. We further discovered that N-1-naphthylacetic acid (NAA), haemin, and CO aqueous solution, led to the induction of ZmHO-1 expression as well as the thereafter promotion of lateral root development. These effects were specific for ZmHO-1 since the potent HO-1 inhibitor zinc protoporphyrin IX (ZnPPIX) differentially blocked the above actions. The addition of haemin and CO were able to reverse the auxin depletion-triggered inhibition of lateral root formation as well as the decreased ZmHO-1 transcripts. Molecular evidence showed that the haemin- or CO-mediated the modulation of target genes responsible for lateral root formation, including ZmCDK and ZmCKI2, could be blocked by ZnPPIX. Overexpression of ZmHO-1 in transgenic Arabidopsis plants resulted in promotion of lateral root development as well as the modulation of cell cycle regulatory gene expressions. Overall, our results suggested that a maize HO-1 gene is required for the lateral root formation.
22284716	Lodicules are grass-specific floral organs with scale-like shapes that play an important role in flower opening. Because of their position just outside the stamens, lodicules have been suggested as analogous to eudicot petals. Previous molecular genetic studies in maize and rice revealed that identities of lodicule and stamen are specified by members of the AP3-lineage of B-class MADS-box genes, which specify petal and stamen identities in eudicots. This supported the hypothesis that lodicules may be equivalent to eudicot petals. Recent studies in rice, maize, and barley further demonstrated that the molecular genetic mechanism of lodicule development includes the PI-lineage of B-class, C-class, SEP-like, AGL6-like, and AP2-like genes. These findings consistently suggest that the genetic mechanisms behind lodicule and petal development are similar. Nevertheless, remarkable divergence in the appearances of lodicules and petals suggests that their developmental processes are very different. Critical mutations in cis-elements and coding sequences of the key regulatory genes may be major driving forces of the divergence between lodicules and petals.
22285534	Blueberries are traditionally consumed in North America, some European countries and Japan. In Argentina, the blueberry crop is profitable because production starts in November, when the northern hemisphere lacks fresh fruit. Fungal contaminants can grow and produce mycotoxins in fresh fruit. The aims of this work were to identify the main genera of the mycobiota of blueberries grown in Argentina and to determine the toxicogenic potential, pathogenicity and host specificity of the species isolated. The genus Alternaria was the main component of the blueberry mycobiota (95%); minor proportions of Phoma spp. (4%) and Penicillium spp. (1%) were also isolated. According to their sporulation patterns, 127 Alternaria isolates belonged to the Alternaria tenuissima species-group, 5 to the Alternaria alternata species-group and 2 to the Alternaria arborescens species-group. The last mentioned species-group was not isolated at 5°C. Of the 134 isolates, 61% were toxicogenic in autoclaved rice; 97% of these produced alternariol (AOH) in a range from 0.14 to 119.18 mg/kg, 95% produced alternariol methylether (AME) in a range from 1.23 to 901.74 mg/kg and 65% produced tenuazonic acid (TA) in a range from 0.13 to 2778 mg/kg. Fifty two isolates co-produced the three mycotoxins. According to the size of the lesion that they caused on blueberries, the isolates were classified as slightly pathogenic, moderately pathogenic and very pathogenic. No significant differences in pathogenicity were found on different blueberry varieties. In this work, high incidence and toxicogenic potential of the Alternaria isolates from blueberries were demonstrated. Thus, more studies should be done to evaluate the health risk posed by the presence of the Alternaria toxins in blueberries and in the manufactured by-products.
22285622	Hydroxycinnamoyltransferases (HCTs) catalyze the transfer of the cinnamoyl moiety from hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA to various acceptors such as shikimic acid, quinic acid, hydroxylated acid, and glycerol. Four rice HCT homologues (OsHCT1-4) to tobacco HST were cloned, and OsHCT4 was expressed in Escherichia coli as a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein. Using the purified recombinant protein and biotransformation techniques, whether OsHCT4 shows hydroxycinnamoyltransferase activity with a variety of acyl group acceptors was investigated. The results of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrometry (MS) established that OsHCT4 mediated the trans-esterification of glycerol as well as shikimic acid in the presence of hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA. The structure of the reaction product was determined using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). E. coli cells co-expressing 4CL (4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase) and OsHCT4 converted p-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, and caffeic acid into the corresponding glycerides. While this conversion is very efficient in vitro, the physiological significant in rice is currently unknown.
22286138	The meristem initiates lateral organs in a regular manner, and proper communication between the meristem and the lateral organs ensures the normal development of plants. Here, we show that mutation of the rice (Oryza sativa) gene TONGARI-BOUSHI1 (TOB1) results in pleiotropic phenotypes in spikelets, such as the formation of a cone-shaped organ instead of the lemma or palea, the development of two florets in a spikelet, or premature termination of the floret meristem, in addition to reduced growth of the lemma or palea and elongation of the awn. These phenotypes seem to result from not only failure in growth of the lateral organs, but also defects in maintenance and organization of the meristem. For example, the cone-shaped organ develops as a ring-like primordium from an initial stage, suggesting that regulation of organ initiation in the meristem may be compromised. TOB1 encodes a YABBY protein, which is closely related to FILAMENTOUS FLOWER in Arabidopsis thaliana, and is expressed in the lateral organ primordia without any patterns of polarization. No TOB1 expression is detected in the meristem, so TOB1 may act non-cell autonomously to maintain proper meristem organization and is therefore likely to play an important role in rice spikelet development.
22286805	The biosynthesis of flavonoids, important secondary plant metabolites, has been investigated extensively, but few mutants of genes in this pathway have been identified in rice (Oryza sativa). The rice gold hull and internode (gh) mutants exhibit a reddish-brown pigmentation in the hull and internode and their phenotype has long been used as a morphological marker trait for breeding and genetic study. Here, we characterized that the gh1 mutant was a mutant of the rice chalcone isomerase gene (OsCHI). The result showed that gh1 had a Dasheng retrotransposon inserted in the 5′ UTR of the OsCHI gene, which resulted in the complete loss of OsCHI expression. gh1 exhibited golden pigmentation in hulls and internodes once the panicles were exposed to light. The total flavonoid content in gh1 hulls was increased threefold compared to wild type. Consistent with the gh1 phenotype, OsCHI transcripts were expressed in most tissues of rice and most abundantly in internodes. It was also expressed at high levels in panicles before heading, distributed mainly in lemmas and paleae, but its expression decreased substantially after the panicles emerged from the sheath. OsCHI encodes a protein functionally and structurally conserved to chalcone isomerases in other species. Our findings demonstrated that the OsCHI gene was indispensable for flux of the flavonoid pathway in rice.
22287004	Fusarium graminearum (Gibberella zeae) is an important pathogen of wheat, maize, barley, and rice in South Korea, and harvested grain often is contaminated with trichothecenes such as deoxynivalenol and nivalenol. In this study, we examined 568 isolates of F. graminearum collected from maize at eight locations in South Korea. We used amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) to identify four lineages (2, 3, 6, and 7); lineage 7 was the most common (75%), followed by lineage 6 (12%), lineage 3 (12%), and lineage 2 (1%). The genetic identity among populations was high (>0.98), and the effective migration rate between locations was higher than that between lineages. Female fertility varied by lineage: all lineage 7 isolates were fertile, while 70%, 26%, and 14% of the isolates in lineages 6, 3, and 2, respectively, were fertile. All lineage 3 and lineage 7 isolates produced deoxynivalenol, whereas most lineage 2 and 6 isolates produced nivalenol. Genotypic diversity in lineage 3 and lineage 6 populations is similar to that found in previously described Korean rice populations, but genotypic diversity in lineage 7 is much lower, even though similar levels of gene flow occur between lineage 7 populations. We conclude that lineage 7 was relatively recently introduced into South Korea, perhaps accompanying imported maize seeds.
22289020	The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of feeding different diets on fermentation, enzyme activities and microbial population in the rumen fluid of mithun (Bos frontalis). In a randomized block design, 20 male mithun (6-8 months of age, 152 ± 12.6 kg body weight) were randomly divided into four experimental groups (n = 5/group) and fed experimental diets ad libitum for 180 days. The diet R1 contained tree foliages (TF), R2 comprised of 50% concentrate mixture (CM) and 50% TF, R3 contained 50% CM and 50% rice straw, and R4 contained 50% CM, 25% TF and 25% rice straw. Rumen liquor was collected at 0 and 180 days of the experiment for estimation of different ruminal parameters and a digestion trial was conducted at the end of the experiment. Rumen fluid was analysed for pH, ammonia nitrogen (NH3 -N), total-N, ruminal enzymes, short chain fatty acid (SCFA) and microbial profile. The relative quantification of ruminal microbes was carried out with real-time PCR using bacteria as the house keeping gene. The dry matter intake, nutrients digestibility, body weight gain, NH3 -N, total-N, carboxymethyl cellulase, avicelase, xylanase, amylase, protease and molar proportion of butyrate were (p < 0.05) higher in mithun fed R2 , R3 and R4 compared to those fed R1 diet. In contrast, increased (p < 0.05) ruminal pH, molar proportion of acetate and, acetate to propionate ratio was recorded in mithun fed only TF than those fed concentrate supplemented diets. Similarly, an increase (p < 0.05) in the population of Fibrobacter succinogenes, Ruminococcus flavefaciens and total bacteria were evident in mithun fed R2 , R3 and R4 compared to those fed R1 . Therefore, it is concluded that TF 25% and/or rice straw 25% along with CM 50% may be fed to the growing mithun for improved rumen ecology, nutrient utilization and thus better performance under stall fed system.
22289080	The effect of light on melatonin biosynthesis was examined in detached rice (Oryza sativa cv. Asahi) leaves during the senescence process. The detached leaves were exposed to senescence treatment either in constant darkness or in constant light, and subjected to HPLC analysis for melatonin and its precursors. Higher melatonin levels were detected in rice leaves under constant light while very low levels were observed in constant darkness. Levels of the melatonin intermediates, tryptamine, serotonin, and N-acetylserotonin significantly decreased in the dark compared to those in the light. Furthermore, relative mRNA levels of melatonin biosynthetic genes and their corresponding proteins decreased accordingly in constant darkness. The most striking difference between constant light and dark was observed in levels of the protein tryptamine 5-hydroxylase. These results suggest that melatonin biosynthesis during senescence is dependent on light signals in rice leaves, contrary to the response found in animals.
22289172	To evaluate global warming potential (GWP) on livestock waste treatment and biomass production in rice field, methane (CH(4)) and nitrous oxide (N(2)O) fluxes from forage rice fields planted with 4 different cultivars (Oryza sativa L. cv. Hamasari, Leafstar, Kusahonami and Takanari) were measured. Each of the cultivars were subjected either to basal fertilization alone (control plots) (84 kg N ha(-1)), or to basal fertilization plus topdressing with liquid cattle waste or LCW (treatment plots) (567 kg N ha(-1)). Liquid cattle waste application to the rice field resulted in peak CH(4) fluxes ranging from 22.0 to 32.1 mg m(-1)h(-1) during flooded conditions and large N(2)O fluxes ranging from 526 to 8591 μg m(-1)h(-1) after midsummer drainage and final drainage. The GWP of the control plots was between 1358 and 3872 kg CO(2)eq ha(-1), while the treatment plots ranged between 4503 and 8426 kg CO(2)eq ha(-1) and more than 60% of the GWP was from the N(2)O emission in treatment plots. In both the control and treatment plots, the lowest GWPs per ton of above-ground biomass were found to be from the Leafstar cultivar, which had a higher aboveground biomass than other cultivars; 117 kg CO(2)eq t(-1) from the control and 257 kg CO(2)eq t(-1) from the treatment plots. Thus, both forage production and suitable disposal of the LCW may be able to be achieved concomitantly with lower levels of GWP by cultivation of Leafstar in our field.
22289642	Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae is a devastating pathogen of rice and has been extensively studied as a model pathogen of monocotyledons. Expressional studies in both the contenders have been undertaken in past to understand the molecular mechanism underlying the compatible and incompatible interactions in the pathosystem. Continuous update on database and gene annotations necessitates constant updating on the roles of the new entities as well as reinterpretation of regulations of the previous ones. Moreover the past endeavors have addressed the middle or late defense responses of the rice plant whereas in the present study an attempt has been made to investigate the early defense responses taking place immediately after inoculation. Microarray was used to study the transcriptional modulations in eighteen days old rice seedling leaves of both susceptible and resistant genotypes one hour after inoculation. In resistant plants as compared to susceptible ones 274 genes were found to be differentially expressed. Annotations could be assigned to 112 up- and 73 down-regulated transcripts and gene interaction maps were generated for 86 transcripts. Expressional data and interaction maps were used to develop a hypothetical scheme of the molecular events taking place during early defense response. Network analysis with the differential transcripts showed up-regulation of major clusters of cell signaling proteins and transcription factors while growth and basal metabolic components were largely found to be down-regulated. This study provides an understanding of the early defense signaling in rice cells. Components of the calcium and lipid signaling as well as MAPK cascade were modulated, by signals from surface receptors and cytosolic R-proteins, to arouse jasmonic acid and ethylene signaling and suppress auxin signaling through various transcription factors. Abscisic acid modulation was also evident through the expression regulation of transcription factors involved with its functions. Moreover adjustments in expression levels of components of primary as well as secondary metabolism, protein trafficking and turnout were apparent, highlighting the complexity of defense response.
22289740
22290020	This study evaluates a two-stage bioprocess for recovering hydrogen and methane while treating organic residues of fermentative bioethanol from rice straw. The obtained results indicate that controlling a proper volumetric loading rate, substrate-to-biomass ratio, or F/M ratio is important to maximizing biohydrogen production from rice straw bioethanol residues. Clostridium tyrobutyricum, the identified major hydrogen-producing bacteria enriched in the hydrogen bioreactor, is likely utilizing lactate and acetate for biohydrogen production. The occurrence of acetogenesis during biohydrogen fermentation may reduce the B/A ratio and lead to a lower hydrogen production. Organic residues remained in the effluent of hydrogen bioreactor can be effectively converted to methane with a rate of 2.8 mmol CH(4)/gVSS/h at VLR of 4.6 kg COD/m(3)/d. Finally, approximately 75% of COD in rice straw bioethanol residues can be removed and among that 1.3% and 66.1% of COD can be recovered in the forms of hydrogen and methane, respectively.
2229031	We have isolated a cDNA encoding UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase from a cDNA library of immature potato tuber using oligonucleotide probes synthesized on the basis of partial amino acid sequences of the enzyme. The cDNA clone contained a 1,758-base-pair insert including the complete message for UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase with 1,431 base pairs. The amino acid sequence of the enzyme inferred from the nucleotide sequence consists of 477 amino acid residues. All the partial amino acid sequences determined protein-chemically [Nakano et al. (1989) J. Biochem. 106, 528-532] confirmed the primary structure of the enzyme. An N-terminal-blocked peptide was isolated from the proteolytic digest of the enzyme protein, and the blocking group was deduced to be an acetyl group by fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry. On the basis of the predicted amino acid sequence (477 residues minus the N-terminal Met plus an acetyl group), the molecular weight of the enzyme monomer is calculated to be 51,783, which agrees well with the value determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In the cDNA structure, the open-reading frame is preceded by a 125-base-pair noncoding region, which contains a sequence being homologous with the consensus sequence for plant genes, and is followed by a 174-base-pair noncoding sequence including a polyadenylation signal. Amino acid sequence comparisons revealed that the potato UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase is homologous to the enzyme from slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, but not to ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylases from rice seed and Escherichia coli.
22290463	Contamination of insect DNA for RAPD-PCR analysis can be a problem because many primers are non-specific and DNA from parasites or gut contents may be simultaneously extracted along with that of the insect. We measured the quantity of food ingested and assimilated by two sympatric populations of brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, one from rice and the other from Leersia hexandra (Poaceae), a wetland forage grass, and we also investigated whether host plant DNA contaminates that of herbivore insects in extractions of whole insects. Ingestion and assimilation of food were reduced significantly when individuals derived from one host plant were caged on the other species. The bands, OPA3 (1.25), OPD3 (1.10), OPD3 (0.80), OPD3 (0.60), pUC/M13F (0.35), pUC/M13F (0.20), BOXAIR (0.50), peh#3 (0.50), and peh#3 (0.17) were found in both rice-infesting populations of brown planthopper and its host plant (rice). Similarly, the bands, OPA4 (1.00), OPB10 (0.70), OPD3 (0.90), OPD3 (0.80), OPD3 (0.60), pUC/ M13F (0.35), pUC/M13F (0.20), and BOXAIR (0.50) were found in both Leersia-infesting populations of brown planthopper and the host plant. So, it is clear that the DNA bands amplified in the host plants were also found in the extracts from the insects feeding on them.
22290495	The pre-mRNA processing (Prp1) gene encodes a spliceosomal protein. It was firstly identified in fission yeast and plays a regular role during spliceosome activation and cell cycle. Plant Prp1 genes have only been identified from rice, Sorghum and Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we reported the identification and isolation of a novel Prp1 gene from barley, and further explored its expressional pattern by using real-time quantitative RTPCR, promoter prediction and analysis of microarray data. The putative barley Prp1 protein has a similar primary structure features to those of other known Prp1 protein in this family. The results of amino acid comparison indicated that Prp1 protein of barley and other plant species has a highly conserved 30 termnal region while their 50 sequences greatly varied. The results of expressional analysis revealed that the expression level of barley Prp1 gene is always stable in different vegetative tissues, except it is up-regulated at the mid- and late stages of seed development or under the condition of cold stress. This kind of expressional pattern for barley Prp1 is also supported by our results of comparison of microarray data from barley, rice and Arabidopsis. For the molecular mechanism of its expressional pattern, we conclude that the expression of Prp1 gene may be up-regulated by the increase of pre-mRNAs and not be constitutive or ubiquitous.
22290804	The International Plant Proteomics Organization (INPPO) is a non-profit-organization consisting of people who are involved or interested in plant proteomics. INPPO is constantly growing in volume and activity, which is mostly due to the realization among plant proteomics researchers worldwide for the need of such a global platform. Their active participation resulted in the rapid growth within the first year of INPPO's official launch in 2011 via its website (www.inppo.com) and publication of the 'Viewpoint paper' in a special issue of PROTEOMICS (May 2011). Here, we will be highlighting the progress achieved in the year 2011 and the future targets for the year 2012 and onwards. INPPO has achieved a successful administrative structure, the Core Committee (CC; composed of President, Vice-President, and General Secretaries), Executive Council (EC), and General Body (GB) to achieve INPPO objectives. Various committees and subcommittees are in the process of being functionalized via discussion amongst scientists around the globe. INPPO's primary aim to popularize the plant proteomics research in biological sciences has also been recognized by PROTEOMICS where a section dedicated to plant proteomics has been introduced starting January 2012, following the very first issue of this journal devoted to plant proteomics in May 2011. To disseminate organizational activities to the scientific community, INPPO has launched a biannual (in January and July) newsletter entitled 'INPPO Express: News & Views' with the first issue published in January 2012. INPPO is also planning to have several activities in 2012, including programs within the Education Outreach committee in different countries, and the development of research ideas and proposals with priority on crop and horticultural plants, while keeping tight interactions with proteomics programs on model plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, and Medicago truncatula. Altogether, the INPPO progress and upcoming activities are because of immense support, dedication, and hard work of all members of the INPPO community, and also due to the wide encouragement and support from the communities (scientific and non-scientific).
22291135	Heavy metals are transported to rice grains via the phloem. In rice nodes, the diffuse vascular bundles (DVBs), which enclose the enlarged elliptical vascular bundles (EVBs), are connected to the panicle and have a morphological feature that facilitates xylem-to-phloem transfer. To find a mechanism for restricting cadmium (Cd) transport into grains, the distribution of Cd, zinc (Zn), manganese (Mn), and sulphur (S) around the vascular bundles in node I (the node beneath the panicle) of Oryza sativa 'Koshihikari' were compared 1 week after heading. Elemental maps of Cd, Zn, Mn, and S in the vascular bundles of node I were obtained by synchrotron micro-X-ray fluorescence spectrometry and electron probe microanalysis. In addition, Cd K-edge microfocused X-ray absorption near-edge structure analyses were used to identify the elements co-ordinated with Cd. Both Cd and S were mainly distributed in the xylem of the EVB and in the parenchyma cell bridge (PCB) surrounding the EVB. Zn accumulated in the PCB, and Mn accumulated around the protoxylem of the EVB. Cd was co-ordinated mainly with S in the xylem of the EVB, but with both S and O in the phloem of the EVB and in the PCB. The EVB in the node retarded horizontal transport of Cd toward the DVB. By contrast, Zn was first stored in the PCB and then efficiently transferred toward the DVB. Our results provide evidence that transport of Cd, Zn, and Mn is differentially controlled in rice nodes, where vascular bundles are functionally interconnected.
22291591	The rymv1-2 and rymv1-3 alleles of the RYMV1 resistance to Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV), coded by an eIF(iso)4G1 gene, occur in a few cultivars of the Asiatic (Oryza sativa) and African (O. glaberrima) rice species, respectively. The most salient feature of the resistance breaking (RB) process is the converse genetic barrier to rymv1-2 and rymv1-3 resistance breakdown. This specificity is modulated by the amino acid (glutamic acid vs. threonine) at codon 49 of the Viral Protein genome-linked (VPg), a position which is adjacent to the virulence codons 48 and 52. Isolates with a glutamic acid (E) do not overcome rymv1-3 whereas those with a threonine (T) rarely overcome rymv1-2. We found that isolates with T49 had a strong selective advantage over isolates with E49 in O. glaberrima susceptible cultivars. This explains the fixation of the mutation T49 during RYMV evolution and accounts for the diversifying selection estimated at codon 49. Better adapted to O. glaberrima, isolates with T49 are also more prone than isolates with E49 to fix rymv1-3 RB mutations at codon 52 in resistant O. glaberrima cultivars. However, subsequent genetic constraints impaired the ability of isolates with T49 to fix rymv1-2 RB mutations at codons 48 and 52 in resistant O. sativa cultivars. The origin and role of the amino acid at codon 49 of the VPg exemplifies the importance of historical contingencies in the ability of RYMV to overcome RYMV1 resistance.
22291691	Addition of straw is common practice in rice agriculture, but its effect on the path of microbial CH(4) production and the microbial community involved is not well known. Since straw from rice (C3 plant) and maize plants (C4 plant) exhibit different δ(13)C values, we compared the effect of these straw types using anoxic rice field soils from Italy and China, and also a soil from Thailand that had previously not been flooded. The temporal patterns of production of CH(4) and its major substrates H(2) and acetate, were slightly different between rice straw and maize straw. Addition of methyl fluoride, an inhibitor of acetoclastic methanogenesis, resulted in partial inhibition of acetate consumption and CH(4) production. The δ(13)C of the accumulated CH(4) and acetate reflected the different δ(13)C values of rice straw versus maize straw. However, the relative contribution of hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis to total CH(4) production exhibited a similar temporal change when scaled to CH(4) production irrespectively of whether rice straw or maize straw was applied. The composition of the methanogenic archaeal communities was characterized by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis and was quantified by quantitative PCR targeting archaeal 16S rRNA genes or methanogenic mcrA genes. The size of the methanogenic communities generally increased during incubation with straw, but the straw type had little effect. Instead, differences were found between the soils, with Methanosarcinaceae and Methanobacteriales dominating straw decomposition in Italian soil, Methanosarcinaceae, Methanocellales, and Methanobacteriale in China soil, and Methanosarcinaceae and Methanocellales in Thailand soil. The experiments showed that methanogenic degradation in different soils involved different methanogenic population dynamics. However, the path of CH(4) production was hardly different between degradation of rice straw versus maize straw and was also similar for the different soil types.
22291881	Combining ability effects are very effective genetic parameters in deciding the next phase of breeding programs. Although some breeding strategies on the basis of evaluating combining ability have been utilized extensively in hybrid breeding, little is known about the genetic basis of combining ability. Combining ability is a complex trait that is controlled by polygenes. With the advent and development of molecular markers, it is feasible to evaluate the genetic bases of combining ability and heterosis of elite rice hybrids through QTL analysis. In the present study, we first developed a QTL-mapping method for dissecting combining ability and heterosis of agronomic traits. With three testcross populations and a BCRIL population in rice, biometric and QTL analyses were conducted for ten agronomic traits. The significance of general combining ability and special combining ability for most of the traits indicated the importance of both additive and non-additive effects on expression levels. A large number of additive effect QTLs associated with performance per se of BCRIL and general combining ability, and dominant effect QTLs associated with special combining ability and heterosis were identified for the ten traits. The combining ability of agronomic traits could be analyzed by the QTL mapping method. The characteristics revealed by the QTLs for combining ability of agronomic traits were similar with those by multitudinous QTLs for agronomic traits with performance per se of BCRIL. Several QTLs (1-6 in this study) were identified for each trait for combining ability. It demonstrated that some of the QTLs were pleiotropic or linked tightly with each other. The identification of QTLs responsible for combining ability and heterosis in the present study provides valuable information for dissecting genetic basis of combining ability.
22291889	Harvest index is a measure of success in partitioning assimilated photosynthate. An improvement of harvest index means an increase in the economic portion of the plant. Our objective was to identify genetic markers associated with harvest index traits using 203 O. sativa accessions. The phenotyping for 14 traits was conducted in both temperate (Arkansas) and subtropical (Texas) climates and the genotyping used 154 SSRs and an indel marker. Heading, plant height and weight, and panicle length had negative correlations, while seed set and grain weight/panicle had positive correlations with harvest index across both locations. Subsequent genetic diversity and population structure analyses identified five groups in this collection, which corresponded to their geographic origins. Model comparisons revealed that different dimensions of principal components analysis (PCA) affected harvest index traits for mapping accuracy, and kinship did not help. In total, 36 markers in Arkansas and 28 markers in Texas were identified to be significantly associated with harvest index traits. Seven and two markers were consistently associated with two or more harvest index correlated traits in Arkansas and Texas, respectively. Additionally, four markers were constitutively identified at both locations, while 32 and 24 markers were identified specifically in Arkansas and Texas, respectively. Allelic analysis of four constitutive markers demonstrated that allele 253 bp of RM431 had significantly greater effect on decreasing plant height, and 390 bp of RM24011 had the greatest effect on decreasing panicle length across both locations. Many of these identified markers are located either nearby or flanking the regions where the QTLs for harvest index have been reported. Thus, the results from this association mapping study complement and enrich the information from linkage-based QTL studies and will be the basis for improving harvest index directly and indirectly in rice.
22292179
22293112	Combined approaches with genetics, biochemistry, and proteomics studies have greatly advanced our understanding of brassinosteroid (BR) signaling in Arabidopsis. However, in rice, a model plant of monocot and as well an important crop plant, BR signaling is not as well characterized as in Arabidopsis. Recent studies by forward and reverse genetics have identified a number of either conserved or specific components of rice BR signaling pathway, bringing new ideas into BR signaling regulation mechanisms. Genetic manipulation of BR level or BR sensitivity to improve rice yield has established the great significance of BR research achievements.
22293194	To gain a better understanding of the regulatory mechanism of the rice rubisco activase (Rca) gene, variants of the Rca gene promoter (one full-length and four deletion mutants) fused to the coding region of the bacterial reporter gene β-glucuronidase (GUS) were introduced into Arabidopsis via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Our results show that a 340 bp fragment spanning from -297 to +43 bp relative to the transcription initiation site is enough to promote tissue-specific and light-inducible expression of the rice Rca gene as done by the full-length promoter (-1428 to +43 bp). Further deletion analysis indicated that the region conferring tissue-specificity of Rca expression is localized within a 105 bp fragment from -58 to +43 bp, while light-inducible expression of Rca is mediated by the region from -297 to -58 bp. Gel shift assays and competition experiments demonstrated that rice nuclear proteins bind specifically with the fragment conferring light responsiveness at more than one binding site. This implies that multiple cis-elements may be involved in light-induced expression of the rice Rca gene. These works provide a useful reference for understanding transcriptional regulation mechanism of the rice Rca gene, and lay a strong foundation for further detection of related cis-elements and trans-factors.
22293904	The purpose of the research is to investigate the applicability of the low-cost natural biosorbents for the removal of Pb(II) ions from aqueous solution and effluent from battery industry. Six different biosorbents namely rice straw, rice bran, rice husk, coconut shell, neem leaves, and hyacinth roots have been used for the removal of Pb(II) ions from aqueous solution in batch process. All the biosorbents were collected from local area near Kolkata, West Bengal, India. The removal efficiency was determined in batch experiments for each biosorbent. The biosorbents were characterized by SEM, FTIR, surface area, and point of zero charge. The sorption kinetic data was best described by pseudo-second-order model for all the biosorbents except rice husk which followed intraparticle diffusion model. Pb(II) ions adsorption process for rice straw, rice bran, and hyacinth roots were governed predominately by film diffusion, but in the case of rice husk, it was intraparticle diffusion. Film diffusion and intraparticle diffusion were equally responsible for the biosorption process onto coconut shell and neem leaves. The values of mass transfer coefficient indicated that the velocity of the adsorbate transport from the bulk to the solid phase was quite fast for all cases. Maximum monolayer sorption capacities onto the six natural sorbents studied were estimated from the Langmuir sorption model and compared with other natural sorbents used by other researchers. The Elovich model, the calculated values of effective diffusivity, and the sorption energy calculated by using the Dubinin–Radushkevich isotherm were indicated that the sorption process was chemical in nature. The thermodynamic studies indicated that the adsorption processes were endothermic. FTIR studies were carried out to understand the type of functional groups responsible for Pb(II) ions binding process. Regeneration of biosorbents were carried out by desorption studies using HNO3. Battery industry effluents were used for the application study to investigate applicability of the biosorbents. The biosorbents can be utilized as low-cost sorbents for the removal of Pb(II) ions from wastewater.
22294378	Glutathione is a valuable tripeptide that is widely used in the pharmaceutical, food, and cosmetic industries. Glutathione is industrially produced by fermentation using Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Before the glutathione fermentation process with S. cerevisiae, a glucose extraction process from starchy materials is required. This glucose extraction is usually carried out by converting starchy materials to starch using high-temperature cooking and subsequent hydrolysis by amylases to convert starch to glucose. In this study, to develop an energy-saving glutathione production process by reducing energy consumption during the cooking step, we efficiently produced glutathione from low-temperature cooked rice using amylase-expressing S. cerevisiae. The combination of the amylase-expressing yeast with low-temperature cooking is potentially applicable to a variety of energy-saving bio-production methods of chemicals from starchy bio-resources.
22294407	We have comparatively studied the dynamics of malaria transmission in the villages of Mokolo-Douvar located in the rural area with traditional agriculture and Gounougou irrigated rice area, in 2004 August and November and 2006 May and October, to assess vectors biting habits, and malaria inoculation rate and malaria parasite prevalence in cohort of children from 0 to 15 years. Mosquitoes were collected by landing catches on volunteers and by pyrethrum spray collections. A total of 5961 Anopheles were collected. Seven Anopheles species were identified: Anopheles gambiae s.s., Anopheles arabiensis, Anopheles funestus, Anopheles pharoensis, Anopheles rufipes, Anopheles ziemanni and Anopheles squamosus. A. arabiensis was the major species (56.2%) and the main malaria vector in both study sites, followed by A. funestus (32.6%). Malaria transmission was high in the irrigated area of Gounougou (1.42 infection bites per man per night) whereas in the non-irrigated zone of Mokolo-Douvar, it was below detection level during the rainy season (0,245 ib/h/n). In Gounougou, a total of 655 children were examined. The mean plasmodic index was 21.1%. Our findings confirm that changes in irrigated rice agriculture influence malaria transmission dynamics, and call for control measures that are readily adapted to local eco-epidemiological settings.
22294825	To investigate the influence of repeated water avoidance stress (rWAS) on the visceromotor response (VMR) to colorectal distension (CRD) and the modulation of the response by a prebiotic diet in rats using a novel surgery-free method of solid-state manometry. Male Wistar rats fed a standard diet with or without 4% enzyme-treated rice fiber (ERF) for 5 wk were subjected to rWAS (1 h daily x 10 d) or no stress. The VMR to graded phasic CRD was assessed by intraluminal colonic pressure recording on days 0 (baseline), 1 and 10 (45 min) and 11 (24 h) after rWAS and expressed as percentage change from baseline. Cecal content of short chain fatty acids and distal colonic histology were assessed on day 11. WAS on day 1 reduced the VMR to CRD at 40 and 60 mmHg similarly by 28.9% ± 6.6% in both diet groups. On day 10, rWAS-induced reduction of VMR occurred only at 40 mmHg in the standard diet group (36.2% ± 17.8%) while in the ERF group VMR was lowered at 20, 40 and 60 mmHg by 64.9% ± 20.9%, 49.3% ± 11.6% and 38.9% ± 7.3% respectively. The visceral analgesia was still observed on day 11 in ERF- but not in standard diet-fed rats. By contrast the non-stressed groups (standard or ERF diet) exhibited no changes in VMR to CRD. In standard diet-fed rats, rWAS induced mild colonic histological changes that were absent in ERF-fed rats exposed to stress compared to non-stressed rats. The reduction of cecal content of isobutyrate and total butyrate, but not butyrate alone, was correlated with lower visceral pain response. Additionally, ERF diet increased rWAS-induced defecation by 26% and 75% during the first 0-15 min and last 15-60 min, respectively, compared to standard diet, and reduced rats' body weight gain by 1.3 fold independently of their stress status. These data provide the first evidence of psychological stress-related visceral analgesia in rats that was enhanced by chronic intake of ERF prebiotic.
22295064	The early African experience in the Americas is marked by the transatlantic slave trade from ∼1619 to 1850 and the rise of the plantation system. The origins of enslaved Africans were largely dependent on European preferences as well as the availability of potential laborers within Africa. Rice production was a key industry of many colonial South Carolina low country plantations. Accordingly, rice plantations owners within South Carolina often requested enslaved Africans from the so-called "Grain Coast" of western Africa (Senegal to Sierra Leone). Studies on the African origins of the enslaved within other regions of the Americas have been limited. To address the issue of origins of people of African descent within the Americas and understand more about the genetic heterogeneity present within Africa and the African Diaspora, we typed Y chromosome specific markers in 1,319 men consisting of 508 west and central Africans (from 12 populations), 188 Caribbeans (from 2 islands), 532 African Americans (AAs from Washington, DC and Columbia, SC), and 91 European Americans. Principal component and admixture analyses provide support for significant Grain Coast ancestry among African American men in South Carolina. AA men from DC and the Caribbean showed a closer affinity to populations from the Bight of Biafra. Furthermore, 30-40% of the paternal lineages in African descent populations in the Americas are of European ancestry. Diverse west African ancestries and sex-biased gene flow from EAs has contributed greatly to the genetic heterogeneity of African populations throughout the Americas and has significant implications for gene mapping efforts in these populations.
22295176	The trichothecenes produced by solid and liquid cultures of Fusarium sporotrichioides were evaluated with high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Along with the expected T-2 toxin HT-2 toxin and neosolaniol, two additional compounds were detected, which had ions 162 m/z higher than those in the mass spectra of T-2 toxin or HT-2 toxin. Fragmentation behavior of these two compounds was similar to that of T-2 toxin and HT-2 toxin. Based on LC-MS/MS behavior, it is proposed that the two compounds are T-2 toxin 3-O-glucoside and HT-2 toxin 3-O-glucoside. Production of the two glucosides was measured in kernels from wheat and oat inoculated with F. sporotrichiodes, as well as in cultures grown in liquid media and on cracked corn or rice. Production of glucosides in wheat and oats suggest that they may also be present in naturally contaminated cereals.
22295405
22295567	A method of multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by the hybridization on a hydrogel oligonucleotide biochip was developed for simultaneous identification of ten different transgenic elements of plant DNA in feed and food products. The biochip contained 22 immobilized probes intended for (i) detection of plant DNA; (ii) plant species determination (soybean, maize, potato, rice); (iii) identification of transgenic elements, including 35S CaMV, 35S FMV, rice actine gene promoters, nos, 35S CaMV, ocs, pea rbcS1 gene terminators, and bar, gus, nptII marker genes. The limit of detection was 0.5% of genetically modified (GM) soybean and maize in analyzed samples. Identification of transgenic DNA in food and feed products using either the developed approach or real-time PCR led to virtually identical results. The assay can be used for selection of GM samples by screening food and feed products for subsequent quantitative determination of the GM component based on the identified transgene.
22295646	Mn content and its profile distribution characteristics were investigated in soils from the typical Deyeuxia angustifolia wetland, corn filed, paddy field, poplar forest and island forest in Sanjiang Plain. Results indicated that Mn content was relatively low and was in the range of 107.73-2 798.99 mg/kg with the average value of 403.24 mg/kg. Mn content significantly differed by land use (F = 9.272, P < 0.001) and was in the order of island forest > poplar forest > corn field > Deyeuxia angustifolia wetland > paddy field. On the whole, Mn content in each soil layer was in the order of corn filed > Deyeuxia angustifolia wetland > rice paddy in field and was in the order of island forest > poplar forest in the vertical direction. It suggested that Mn was enriched after wetlands were reclaimed in to the upland filed and Mn concentration was decreased when wetlands were changed into rice paddy. Correlation analysis showed that Mn content in soil significantly negatively related to pH (r = -0.279, P < 0.05), significantly positively related to sulfur (r = 0.383, P < 0.01) and dissolved organic carbon (r = 0.244, P < 0.05), and weakly related to soil organic matter and available sulfur, respectively. Changes of environmental factors had impacts on Mn species and then resulted in soil Mn content.
22296233	Recent reports suggest that significant fractionation of stable metal isotopes occurs during biogeochemical cycling and that the uptake into higher plants is an important process. To test isotopic fractionation of copper (Cu) and zinc (Zn) during plant uptake and constrain its controls, we grew lettuce, tomato, rice and durum wheat under controlled conditions in nutrient solutions with variable metal speciation and iron (Fe) supply. The results show that the fractionation patterns of these two micronutrients are decoupled during the transport from nutrient solution to root. In roots, we found an enrichment of the heavier isotopes for Zn, in agreement with previous studies, but an enrichment of isotopically light Cu, suggesting a reduction of Cu(II) possibly at the surfaces of the root cell plasma membranes. This observation holds for both graminaceous and nongraminaceaous species and confirms that reduction is a predominant and ubiquitous mechanism for the acquisition of Cu into plants similar to the mechanism for the acquisition of iron (Fe) by the strategy I plant species. We propose two preliminary models of isotope fractionation processes of Cu and Zn in plants with different uptake strategies.
22297044	The feasibility and operation performance of the gasification of rice straw in an atmospheric fluidized-bed gasifier was studied. The gasification was carried out between 700 and 850 °C. The stoichiometric air-fuel ratio (A/F) for rice straw was 4.28 and air supplied was 7-25% of that necessary for stoichiometric combustion. Mass and power balances, tar concentration, produced gas composition, gas phase ammonia, chloride and potassium concentrations, agglomeration tendencies and gas efficiencies were assessed. Agglomeration was avoided by replacing the normal alumina-silicate bed by a mixture of alumina-silicate sand and MgO. It was shown that it is possible to produce high quality syngas from the gasification of rice straw. Under the experimental conditions used, the higher heating value (HHV) of the produced gas reached 5.1 MJ Nm(-3), the hot gas efficiency 61% and the cold gas efficiency 52%. The obtained results prove that rice straw may be used as fuel for close-coupled boiler-gasifier systems.
22297214	The present study examines the effects of 30 mg/kg butachlor on the cyanobacterial diversity of rice fields in Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Western Bihar in India. A total of 40 samples were grouped into three classes [(i) acidic, (ii) neutral, and (iii) alkaline soils], based on physicochemical and principle component analyses. Acidic soils mainly harbored Westillopsis, Trichormus, Anabaenopsis, and unicellular cyanobacteria; whereas Nostoc, Anabaena, Calothrix, Tolypothrix, and Aulosira were found in neutral and alkaline soils. Molecular characterization using 16S rRNA PCR and DGGE revealed the presence of 13 different phylotypes of cyanobacteria in these samples. Butachlor treatment of the soil samples led to the disappearance of 5 and the emergence of 2 additional phylotypes. A total of 40 DGGE bands showed significant reproducible changes upon treatment with butachlor. Phylogenetic analyses divided the phylotypes into five major clusters exhibiting interesting links with soil pH. Aulosira, Anabaena, Trichormus, and Anabaenopsis were sensitive to butachlor treatment, whereas uncultured cyanobacteria, a chroococcalean member, Westillopsis, Nostoc, Calothrix, Tolypothrix, Rivularia, Gloeotrichia, Fischerella, Leptolyngbya, and Cylindrospermum, appeared to be tolerant against butachlor at their native soil pH. Butachlor-induced inhibition of nitrogen fixation was found to be 65% (maximum) and 33% (minimum) in the soil samples of pH 9.23 and 5.20, respectively. In conclusion, low butachlor doses may prove beneficial in paddy fields having a neutral to alkaline soil pH.
22297225	In this study, the metabolite profiles of three Aspergillus strains during rice koji fermentation were compared. In the partial least squares discriminant analysis-based gas chromatography-mass spectrometry data sets, the metabolite patterns of A. oryzae (KCCM 60345) were clearly distinguished from A. kawachii (KCCM 60552) and only marginal differences were observed for A. oryzae (KCCM 60551) fermentation. In the 2 days fermentation samples, the overall metabolite levels of A. oryzae (KCCM 60345) were similar to the A. oryzae (KCCM 60551) levels and lower than the A. kawachii (KCCM 60552) levels. In addition, we identified discriminators that were mainly contributing tyrosinase inhibition (kojic acid) and antioxidant activities (pyranonigrin A) in A. oryzae (KCCM 60345) and A. kawachii (KCCM 60552) inoculated rice koji, respectively. In this study, we demonstrated that the optimal inoculant Aspergillus strains and fermentation time for functional rice koji could be determined through a metabolomics approach with bioactivity correlations.
22297847	A mutant M47286 with a stunted growth, low fertility and dark-brown phenotype was identified from a T-DNA-tagged rice mutant library. This mutant contained a copy of the T-DNA tag inserted at the location where the expression of two putative tryptophan decarboxylase genes, TDC-1 and TDC-3, were activated. Enzymatic assays of both recombinant proteins showed tryptophan decarboxylase activities that converted tryptophan to tryptamine, which could be converted to serotonin by a constitutively expressed tryptamine 5' hydroxylase (T5H) in rice plants. Over-expression of TDC-1 and TDC-3 in transgenic rice recapitulated the stunted growth, darkbrown phenotype and resulted in a low fertility similar to M47286. The degree of stunted growth and dark-brown color was proportional to the expression levels of TDC-1 and TDC-3. The levels of tryptamine and serotonin accumulation in these transgenic rice lines were also directly correlated with the expression levels of TDC-1 and TDC-3. A mass spectrometry assay demonstrated that the darkbrown leaves and hulls in the TDC-overexpressing transgenic rice were caused by the accumulation of serotonin dimer and that the stunted growth and low fertility were also caused by the accumulation of serotonin and serotonin dimer, but not tryptamine. These results represent the first evidence that over-expression of TDC results in stunted growth, low fertility and the accumulation of serotonin, which when converted to serotonin dimer, leads to a dark brown plant color.
22297978
22298572	Biofortification of plants is a new approach to combat iron deficiency. Common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) can be bred with a higher iron concentration but are rich in iron absorption inhibitors, phytic acid (PA), and polyphenols (PP). To evaluate the potential of beans to combat iron deficiency, three iron absorption studies were carried out in 61 Rwandese women with low iron status. Studies 1 and 2 compared iron absorption from high and low PP beans, similar in PA and iron, fed as bean puree in a double meal design or with rice and potatoes as multiple meals. Study 3 compared iron absorption from high and normal iron beans with similar PP levels and a PA:iron molar ratio, fed with potatoes or rice in multiple meals. Iron absorption was measured as erythrocyte incorporation of stable iron isotopes. In study 1, iron absorption from the high PP bean (3.4%) was 27% lower (P < 0.01) than from low PP bean (4.7%), but when fed in multiple meals (study 2), there was no difference (7 and 7.4%, respectively; P > 0.05). In study 3, iron absorption from the high iron bean (3.8%) was 40% lower (P < 0.001) than from the normal iron bean (6.3%), resulting in equal amounts of iron absorbed. When beans were combined with other meal components in multiple meals, high PP concentration had no negative impact on iron absorption. However, the quantity of iron absorbed from composite meals with high iron beans was no higher than with normal iron beans, indicating that efficacious iron biofortification may be difficult to achieve in beans rich in PA and PP.
22299348	Pymetrozine reportedly inhibits feeding of plant sap-sucking insects, such as aphids and brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens (Stål)). By using electrical penetration graph (EPG), this study was conducted to investigate any differential effect of pymetrozine on the feeding behaviors of four major rice sap-sucking insect species, 1) N. lugens, 2) white-backed planthopper (Sogatella furcifera (Horváth)), 3) small brown planthopper (Laodelphax striatellus (Fallen)), and 4) green rice leafhopper (Nephotettix cincticeps Uhler). On pymetrozine-free TN1 rice plants, white-backed planthopper and small brown planthopper showed a significantly less activity in the phloem phases than brown planthopper or green rice leafhopper while green rice leafhopper engaged in relatively more xylem ingestion than brown planthopper, white-backed planthopper, and small brown planthopper. On the plants treated with 100 mg liter(-1) of pymetrozine, all four insect species showed significant increases, in total duration of nonprobing and significant decreases in the activities in phloem tissue, while all species showed similar feeding behavior during the pathway and xylem phases. This study revealed that, regardless of whether the insects on untreated plants spent more time feeding on phloem than xylem (brown planthopper) or more time on xylem than phloem (green rice leafhopper) or similar times on phloem and xylem (white-backed planthopper and small brown planthopper), their feeding behavior was disturbed by pymetrozine and exhibited similar patterns of sharp decline in activity in the phloem tissue and a significant increase the nonprobing.
22299350	Transgenic rice expressing Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) CrylAb protein is expected to be commercialized in China in the near future. The use of Bt rice for controlling insect pests sparks intensive debates regarding its biosafety. Folsomia candida is an euedaphic species and is often used as a "standard" test organism in assessing effects of environmental pollutants on soil organisms. In this study, growth, development, reproduction, and superoxide dismutase activity (SOD) of F. candida were investigated in the laboratory for populations reared on leaf tissue or leaf-soil mixtures of two CrylAb rice lines and a non-Bt rice isoline. Two independent tests were performed: 1) a 35-d test using petri dishes containing yeast diet (positive control) or fresh rice leaf tissue, and 2) a 28-d test in soil-litter microcosms containing yeast or a mixture of soil and rice leaf tissue. Biological parameters measured in both tests were number of progeny production, population growth rate, and SOD activity. For the petri dish test, data measured also included insect body length and number of exuviation. There were no significant differences between the populations reared on Bt and non-Bt rice leaf tissue in all measured parameters in both tests and for both Bt rice lines, suggesting no significant effects of the CrylAb protein in Bt rice on F. candida in the laboratory studies. Results of this study should add additional biosafety proofs for use of Bt rice to manage rice pests in China.
22299369	The insect glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play an important role in the detoxification of xenobiotic compounds and are related to insecticides resistance. The full-length cDNA sequences encoding the sigma class GST protein (CsGSTsigma) was cloned from the Asiatic rice borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker), one of the most important rice pests in Asia. The comparison of amino acid sequences showed that CsGSTsigma is highly similar to the sigma GST isolated from the domestic silkworm, Bombyx mori (L.). A homology model of CsGSTsigma was constructed and its binding environment for GSH is identical to that in the equivalent site of sigma GST from the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster Meigen. The developmental changes of the relative mRNA expression levels of CsGSTsigma were examined in Asiatic rice borer, and the highest expression level of this gene is in adult followed by the third-instar larvae stage. Furthermore, one gram-positive bacterium and two chemical insecticides were found to be able to induce the increasing expression of CsGSTsigma, suggesting that CsGSTsigma might work as an antioxidant enzyme to against the negative effects caused by both pathogens and xenobiotics.
22299375	The effects of eight diets (atta flour, wheat flour, self-rising flour, rice flour, custard powder, corn flour, tapioca starch, and potato starch) on the development of the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), reared at 29-31 degrees C and 66-70% RH were assessed. Five pairs of male and female T. castaneum were reared on the respective diets for 28 d before the experimental setup was dismantled and adult counts were recorded. In another experiment, the insects were allowed to mate and oviposit in each flour or starch type over a period of 7 d before being removed. The counting of pupae and adult emergence began on the day of emergence and was continued on a daily basis until day 140. Proximate analysis was performed for chemical composition of each diet, and the numbers of new adults that developed were found to be positively correlated (r2 = 0.97; P < 0.05) with the protein content and negatively correlated (r2 = 0.93; P < 0.05) with the carbohydrate content. For T. castaneum, the suitable diets were ranked as follows: atta flour > wheat flour > self-rising flour > rice flour > custard powder > corn flour > tapioca starch > potato starch. T. castaneum larval development to the pupal and adult stages developed significantly faster in atta flour (P < 0.05) than in the other diets, and the greatest number of progeny was produced from beetles reared on atta flour. Fewer adults emerged from wheat flour, self-rising flour, and rice flour, and no new emergences were recorded for the remaining diets. Developmental rate was much slower in beetles reared on diets in which a low number in progeny was produced. These data illustrate that different diets can influence the sustainability of these insects and affect their development and growth.
22299424	Human exposure to cadmium (Cd) produces a wide variety of toxic effects involving many organs and systems, but the kidney is the main organ affected among long-term Cd-exposed people. In the general population, the primary sources of Cd exposure are cigarette smoke and food (shellfish, offal and certain vegetables). The aims of the study were to investigate the association between urinary and blood Cd levels and personal habits relating to Cd intake (consumption of food stuff, water and tobacco smoking), levels of renal biomarkers in the urine or serum of 314 Thai subjects (85 males, 229 females) who resided in Cd-contaminated areas of Mae Sot District, Tak Province, Thailand. Based on the cut-off levels of 1 microg/g creatinine and 5 microg/l for urinary and blood Cd levels, respectively, nearly all subjects had urinary Cd levels lower than cut-off values for urine and blood (88.2 and 77.7%, respectively). Binary logistic backward stepwise regression analysis with five covariates (gender, residential areas, consumption of bamboo or chicken, and smoking status), and eight covariates (residential areas, consumption of beans, pork, fish or liver, types and sources of rice consumed and smoking status) best predicted urinary and blood Cd levels, respectively. For renal biomarkers, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (NAG) best predicted both urinary and blood Cd with good accuracy. A larger sample size with equal distribution of subjects with low (< 2 microg/g creatinine) and high (> 2 microg/g creatinine) urinary Cd levels should be studied to obtain the regression equation that would best predict Cd body burden.
22299809	Oligoryzomys (Cricetidae, Sigmodontinae) is a common rodent genus from South America that includes a couple of very similar species. Related species have been used as experimental model for understanding several diseases for which these species are reservoirs. In order to provide a better understanding of the embryological aspects of this group, herein we showed data on the embryonic and fetal development in Oligoryzomys sp. Eight specimens of different stages of gestation were obtained from the Collection of the Zoology Museum of University of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Gestational ages were estimated by crown-rump-length according to Evans and Sack (1973). To address our analysis after examining the gross morphology, tissues from several organs were processed for light and scanning electron microscopy. Morphological data on the systems (nervous system, cardiorespiratory system, intestinal tract and urogenital system) were described in detail. Finally, the findings were compared with what is known about embryological aspects in other rodent species in order to establish similarities and differences during the organogenesis in different species.
2229986	Feasibility of home treatment of diarrhoea with packaged rice-based oral rehydration salts (R-ORS) was compared, in terms of cost, with that for glucose-based oral rehydration salts (G-ORS). Packets of G-ORS (World Health Organization-recommended composition) were distributed in two Bangladeshi villages (G-ORS area). Packets of R-ORS with similar composition, except that glucose was replaced with rice flour (50 g/l), were distributed in other two villages (R-ORS area). During the 7-month study period, 1061 and 1348 diarrhoeal episodes were detected among 409 under-five children in each of the study areas. R-ORS was used, either alone or in combination with drugs, to treat 662 (62%) episodes in the R-ORS area, compared to 1101 (82%) episodes in the G-ORS area. The treatment cost per episode was more with R-ORS than with G-ORS, though fewer R-ORS packets were used per episode. Among others, the main factor for the higher cost was found to be the higher production cost of R-ORS packets. Expected early recovery from diarrhoea with use of R-ORS was not observed in this study. Under the study situation, the feasibility of home treatment of diarrhoea with packaged R-ORS was not apparent.
22299872	Ultraviolet (UV) photodissociation dynamics of jet-cooled phenyl radicals (C(6)H(5) and C(6)D(5)) are studied in the photolysis wavelength region of 215-268 nm using high-n Rydberg atom time-of-flight and resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization techniques. The phenyl radicals are produced from 193-nm photolysis of chlorobenzene and bromobenzene precursors. The H-atom photofragment yield spectra have a broad peak centered around 235 nm and are in good agreement with the UV absorption spectra of phenyl. The H + C(6)H(4) product translational energy distributions, P(E(T))'s, peak near ~7 kcal/mol, and the fraction of average translational energy in the total excess energy, <f(T)>, is in the range of 0.20-0.35 from 215 to 268 nm. The H-atom product angular distribution is isotropic. The dissociation rates are in the range of 10(7)-10(8) s(-1) with internal energy from 30 to 46 kcal/mol above the threshold of the lowest energy channel H + o-C(6)H(4) (ortho-benzyne), comparable with the rates from the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. The results from the fully deuterated phenyl radical are identical. The dissociation mechanism is consistent with production of H + o-C(6)H(4), as the main channel from unimolecular decomposition of the ground electronic state phenyl radical following internal conversion of the electronically excited state.
22301130	OsbZIP46 is one member of the third subfamily of bZIP transcription factors in rice (Oryza sativa). It has high sequence similarity to ABA-responsive element binding factor (ABF/AREB) transcription factors ABI5 and OsbZIP23, two transcriptional activators positively regulating stress tolerance in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice, respectively. Expression of OsbZIP46 was strongly induced by drought, heat, hydrogen peroxide, and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment; however, it was not induced by salt and cold stresses. Overexpression of the native OsbZIP46 gene increased ABA sensitivity but had no positive effect on drought resistance. The activation domain of OsbZIP46 was defined by a series of deletions, and a region (domain D) was identified as having a negative effect on the activation. We produced a constitutive active form of OsbZIP46 (OsbZIP46CA1) with a deletion of domain D. Overexpression of OsbZIP46CA1 in rice significantly increased tolerance to drought and osmotic stresses. Gene chip analysis of the two overexpressors (native OsbZIP46 and the constitutive active form OsbZIP46CA1) revealed that a large number of stress-related genes, many of them predicted to be downstream genes of ABF/AREBs, were activated in the OsbZIP46CA1 overexpressor but not (even down-regulated) in the OsbZIP46 overexpressor. OsbZIP46 can interact with homologs of SnRK2 protein kinases that phosphorylate ABFs in Arabidopsis. These results suggest that OsbZIP46 is a positive regulator of ABA signaling and drought stress tolerance of rice depending on its activation. The stress-related genes activated by OsbZIP46CA1 are largely different from those activated by the other rice ABF/AREB homologs (such as OsbZIP23), further implying the value of OsbZIP46CA1 in genetic engineering of drought tolerance.
22301384	MYB-type transcription factors play a diverse role in plant development and response to abiotic stress. This study isolated a rice R2R3-type MYB gene, OsMYB2, and functionally characterized its role in tolerance to abiotic stress by generating transgenic rice plants with overexpressing and RNA interference OsMYB2. Expression of OsMYB2 was up-regulated by salt, cold, and dehydration stress. OsMYB2 was localized in the nucleus with transactivation activity. No difference in growth and development between the OsMYB2-overexpressing and wild-type plants was observed under normal growth conditions, but the OsMYB2-overexpressing plants were more tolerant to salt, cold, and dehydration stresses and more sensitive to abscisic acid than wild-type plants. The OsMYB2-overexpressing plants accumulated greater amounts of soluble sugars and proline than wild-type plants under salt stress. Overexpression of OsMYB2 enhanced up-regulation of genes encoding proline synthase and transporters. The OsMYB2-overexpressing plants accumulated less amounts of H(2)O(2) and malondialdehyde. The enhanced activities of antioxidant enzymes, including peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, and catalase, may underlie the lower H(2)O(2) contents in OsMYB2-overexpressing plants. There was greater up-regulation of stress-related genes, including OsLEA3, OsRab16A, and OsDREB2A, in the OsMYB2-overexpressing plants. Microarray analysis showed that expression of numerous genes involving diverse functions in stress response was altered in the OsMYB2-overexpressing plants. These findings suggest that OsMYB2 encodes a stress-responsive MYB transcription factor that plays a regulatory role in tolerance of rice to salt, cold, and dehydration stress.
22301682	The prevalence of lifestyle-related chronic diseases is increasing and gene-diet interaction studies are limited among the Malaysian population. This study was conducted to evaluate the association and interaction effects of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2(VEGFR2) gene polymorphisms and dietary patterns on anthropometric and biochemical risk factors of chronic diseases in 179 Chinese Malaysian adults. Genotyping of rs1870377 and rs2071559 was performed by real-time PCR using TaqMan probes. Dietary patterns were constructed from the food frequency questionnaire using factor analysis. Anthropometric measurements: body mass index (BMI), systolic and diastolic blood pressure and biomarkers: blood glucose, glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and lipids were obtained. Two dietary patterns: 'Balanced diet' and 'Meat, rice and noodles diet' (MRND) were extracted. MRND was associated with higher BMI, blood pressure, blood glucose and lipids, while T alleles in both rs1870377 and rs2071559 were associated with higher blood lipids (p < 0.05). The interaction of MRND and rs1870377 had a borderline effect on blood HbA1c after adjusting for confounders (p = 0.057). A dietary pattern of MRND and VEGFR2 gene polymorphisms were both associated with increased health risks of lifestyle-related chronic diseases particularly blood glucose and lipid levels in Chinese Malaysian adults.
22301968	The rice peter pan syndrome-1 (pps-1) mutant shows a prolonged juvenile phase and early flowering. Although the early vegetative phase and flowering time of pps-1 have been closely examined, the phenotypes in the late vegetative and reproductive phases are not yet well understood. In the ninth leaf blade of pps-1, the relative length of the midrib was comparable to the sixth leaf blade of wild-type. Moreover, pps-1 had a small inflorescence meristem and small panicles. These phenotypes indicate that in pps-1 the juvenile phase coexists with the late vegetative phase, resulting in small panicles. Gibberellin is known to promote the juvenile-adult phase transition. d18-k is dwarf and has a prolonged juvenile phase. Double mutant (d18-k pps-1) showed the same phenotype as the pps-1, indicating that PPS is upstream of GA biosynthetic genes.
22302254	The published evidence on strategies for avoiding the discontinuation of statin therapy due to muscular adverse effects is reviewed. Statin medications are a cornerstone of the prevention and treatment of coronary heart disease, but about 20% of treated patients develop myalgia or other muscle-related adverse effects that can lead to the discontinuation of statin use. As there are no consensus guidelines or firm practice recommendations on continuing or reinitiating statin therapy in patients who experience statin-related muscular adverse effects, a literature search was conducted to evaluate a variety of strategies that have been studied. The search results indicated that the most widely used strategies are (1) alternative statin dosing, (2) co-enzyme Q10 supplementation, (3) vitamin D supplementation, (4) conversion to red yeast rice (RYR) therapy, and (5) conversion to a different statin. While positive results in some patients have been reported with all of the strategies reviewed, the available evidence is insufficient to support the routine use of any of the strategies in clinical practice. In particular, the use of RYR, which contains a naturally occurring statin, is not recommended due to limited and inconsistent study results and uncertainty about the contents of commercially available RYR products. In patients intolerant to statin therapy due to myalgia or other muscular adverse effects, strategies such as alternative statin dosing schedules, coenzyme Q10 or vitamin D supplementation, and conversion to RYR or an alternative statin may allow some patients to continue to receive the benefits of lipid-lowering therapy.
22302312	We have recently identified and classified a cystathionine β-synthase domain containing protein family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa L.). Based on the microarray and MPSS data, we have suggested their involvement in stress tolerance. In this study, we have characterized a rice protein of unknown function, OsCBSX4. This gene was found to be upregulated under high salinity, heavy metal, and oxidative stresses at seedling stage. Transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing OsCBSX4 exhibited improved tolerance toward salinity, heavy metal, and oxidative stress. This enhanced stress tolerance in transgenic plants could directly be correlated with higher accumulation of OsCBSX4 protein. Transgenic plants could grow and set seeds under continuous presence of 150 mM NaCl. The total seed yield in WT plants was reduced by 80%, while in transgenic plants, it was reduced only by 15-17%. The transgenic plants accumulated less Na+, especially in seeds and maintained higher net photosynthesis rate and Fv/Fm than WT plants under NaCl stress. Transgenic seedlings also accumulated significantly less H2O2 as compared to WT under salinity, heavy metal, and oxidative stress. OsCBSX4 overexpressing transgenic plants exhibit higher abiotic stress tolerance than WT plants suggesting its role in abiotic stress tolerance in plants.
22303248	Trehalose is an alpha, alpha-1, 1-linked glucose disaccharide. In plants, trehalose is synthesized in two steps. Firstly, trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (TPS) converts UDP-glucose and glucose-6-phosphate to trehalose-6-phosphate (T6P); secondly, T6P-phosphatase (TPP) converts T6P into trehalose and Pi. Trehalose is further cleaved into glucose by trehalase. In extracts of most plants, including Arabidopsis, levels of both trehalose and T6P are low, nearing detection limits, and this has delayed research into their function. Trehalose is transported widely in plants, but transport of T6P is not thought to occur except possibly at the subcellular level. Feeding trehalose to Arabidopsis seedlings alters carbon allocation with massive starch accumulation in cotyledons and leaves and absence of starch and growth in shoot and root apices.The Arabidopsis genome has experienced extensive radiation of genes likely encoding enzymes of T6P metabolism: 4 and 10 genes are found with homology to TPS and TPP respectively and 7 genes are found with homology to both TPS and TPP. Complementation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants has shown that AtTPS1, AtTPPA and AtTPPB are functional enzymes. In contrast just a single gene encoding a protein with trehalase activity has been found. Whilst most TPS proteins appear cytosolic, strikingly, some TPPs appear targeted to chloroplasts; trehalase on the other hand is extracellular. Transporters of trehalose and T6P have yet to be described. Arabidopsis tps1 mutants are embryo lethal and results suggest that T6P is essential for several other steps in development including root growth and floral transition. Accordingly, altering T6P content has a profound effect on plant habitus and impacts metabolite profiles, sugar utilization and photosynthesis. These large effects have hindered dissection of cause and effect. In contrast, plants with large alterations in sucrose-6-phosphate concentrations are indistinguishable from wild type, suggesting very different functions for these compounds. Recently, T6P at low micromolar concentrations has been shown in vitro and in vivo to inhibit SnRK1 of the SNF1/AMPK group of protein kinases. This supports a function for T6P as a sugar signaling molecule integrating metabolism and development in plants in relation to carbon supply.Genetic engineering of Arabidopsis as well as tobacco, potato and rice with TPS or TPS/TPP protein fusions reveals that trehalose metabolism also mediates multiple abiotic stress tolerances. Trehalose applications also mediate biotic stress resistances. Both Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae TPS/TPP protein fusions can be used to engineer stress tolerance suggesting that metabolites rather than proteins of the trehalose pathway are key stress tolerance elicitors. Results underscore the central role of trehalose metabolites in integrating carbon metabolism and stress responses with plant development.
22303662	Rice productivity is the key factor affecting rice production and its sustainable development. Based on the gradation of cultivated land quality at county-level, this paper evaluated the rice productivity in Fuyang County of Zhejiang Province, and, through selected sampling field investigation and according to the land productivity index of paddy field quality, a model for assessing rice achievable productivity was established, aimed to analyze the regional rice productivity and its achievable productivity. In the study area, there was a positive correlation between the land productivity index and rice yield. For single cropping rice, its achievable productivity was 1.70 x 10(5) t, being 1.6 times of its realistic productivity (1.04 x 10(5) t). In 2009, the realistic rice productivity per unit area was 7676 kg x hm(-2), and the achievable productivity was 8831 kg x hm(-2), with a production potentiality of +15%, a big potential of rice production capacity in the county. Through the analyses of rice productivity, relative superiority of rice production scale, and its growth potential index in the villages and towns, the rice production of Fuyang County was divided into three regions, i. e., key enhancement region, optimization construction region, and development protection region.
22303663	In 2006-2007, a field trial was conducted to study the effects of applying three kinds of organic-inorganic compound fertilizers [rapeseed cake compost plus inorganic fertilizers (RCC), pig manure compost plus inorganic fertilizers (PMC), and Chinese medicine residues plus inorganic fertilizers (CMC)] on the crop growth and nitrogen (N) use efficiency of rice-wheat rotation system in South Jiangsu. Grain yield of wheat and rice in the different fertilization treatments was significantly higher than the control (no fertilization). In treatments RCC, PMC and CMC, the wheat yield was 13.1%, 32.2% and 39.3% lower than that of the NPK compound fertilizer (CF, 6760 kg x hm(-2)), respectively, but the rice yield (8504-9449 kg x hm(-2)) was significantly higher than that (7919 kg x hm(-2)) of CF, with an increment of 7.4%-19.3%. In wheat season, the aboveground dry mass, N accumulation, and N use efficiency in treatments RCC, PMC, and CMC were lower than those of CF, but in rice season, these parameters were significantly higher than or as the same as CF. In sum, all the test three compound fertilizers had positive effects on the rice yield and its nitrogen use efficiency in the rice-wheat rotation system, being most significant for RCC.
22303669	A field experiment was conducted to study the effects of four cultivation modes (conventional tillage, no-tillage, conventional tillage + stubble-remaining, and no-tillage + stubble-remaining) on the activities of urease, acid phosphatase, protease, and cellulose in different soil layers in a broadcasting rice seedlings paddy field. Under the four cultivation modes, the activities of test enzymes were higher in upper than in deeper soil layers, and had a greater difference between the soil layers under no-tillage + stubble-remaining. In upper soil layers, the activities of test enzymes were higher in the treatments of no-tillage than in the treatments of conventional tillage, being the highest under no-tillage + stubble-remaining and the lowest under conventional tillage. In deeper soil layers, the test enzyme activities were the highest under conventional tillage + stubble-remaining, followed by no-tillage + stubble-remaining, no-tillage, and conventional tillage. During the growth period of rice, soil urease and cellulose activities were lower at tillering stage, increased to the maximum at booting stage, and decreased then, soil acid phosphatase activity was higher at tillering stage but lower at elongating stage, whereas soil protease activity peaked at tillering and heading stages.
22303682	An investigation was conducted in Xing' an County of Guangxi Province in 2010 to study the occurrence and damage characteristics of two unique migratory pest insects, rice leaffolder (Cnaphalocrocis medinalis) and white-backed planthopper (Sogatella furcifera), in a transgenic Bt rice (cv. HH1 with dual Cry1Ab+Cry1Ac genes) field, taking the corresponding non-transgenic parent (cv. MH63) field as the control. No significant differences were observed in the abundance of C. medinalis eggs and larvae in the two fields, but the percentage of fold-leaf plants and the fold-leaf rate per plant were significantly lower in transgenic Bt rice field than in the control, suggesting that transgenic Bt rice had higher resistance against the target pest insect C. medinalis. As for S. furcifera, its occurrence dynamics of nymphs, adults (including macro- and brachypterous forms), and whole population had no significant differences between the two fields, but the abundance of the nymphs and brachypterous adults at the peak stage of S. furcifera occurrence was obviously higher in transgenic Bt rice field than in the control, while the macropterous abundance was in adverse. The sex ratio of female of the macropterous adults at the late growth stage of rice was generally lower in transgenic Bt rice field than in the control. These results suggested that under the background of large area commercial production of transgenic Bt rice, the occurrence and harm of the non-target pest insect S. furcifera could become more complicated.
22304810	A simple method for the speciation analysis of bio-accessible arsenic (As) in rice was developed using a continuous on-line leaching method to release the bio-accessible fraction. The continuous on-line leaching method has several advantages over commonly used batch methods including quicker and easier sample preparation, reduced risk of contamination and access to real time leaching data. The bio-accessibility of As in the samples was monitored using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Results from a certified reference material as well as cooked and uncooked white rice showed that the majority of As was leached by saliva. Results obtained using the continuous on-line leaching method were comparable to those obtained using a batch method. Speciation analysis of the saliva leachate was performed using ion exchange chromatography coupled to ICP-MS. The four most toxic forms of As (As(III), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and As(V)) were clearly separated within 5 min in a single chromatographic run. Over 92% of bio-accessible As in the certified reference material and uncooked white rice sample was in the form of DMA and As(V), whereas it was present as DMA and As(III) in the cooked white rice.
22305189	As a result of the growing body of protein phosphorylation sites data, the number of phosphoprotein databases is constantly increasing, and dozens of tools are available for predicting protein phosphorylation sites to achieve fast automatic results. However, none of the existing tools has been developed to predict protein phosphorylation sites in rice. In this paper, the phosphorylation site predictors, NetPhos 2.0, NetPhosK, Kinasephos, Scansite, Disphos and Predphosphos, were integrated to construct meta-predictors of rice-specific phosphorylation sites using several methods, including unweighted voting, unreduced weighted voting, reduced unweighted voting and weighted voting strategies. PhosphoRice, the meta-predictor produced by using weighted voting strategy with parameters selected by restricted grid search and conditional random search, performed the best at predicting phosphorylation sites in rice. Its Matthew's Correlation Coefficient (MCC) and Accuracy (ACC) reached to 0.474 and 73.8%, respectively. Compared to the best individual element predictor (Disphos_default), PhosphoRice archieved a significant increase in MCC of 0.071 (P < 0.01), and an increase in ACC of 4.6%. PhosphoRice is a powerful tool for predicting unidentified phosphorylation sites in rice. Compared to the existing methods, we found that our tool showed greater robustness in ACC and MCC. PhosphoRice is available to the public at http://bioinformatics.fafu.edu.cn/PhosphoRice.
22305541	Rapid pyrolysis of rice straw (RS) and Shenfu bituminous coal (SB) separately, and rapid co-pyrolysis of RS/SB blends (mass ratio 1:4, 1:4, and 4:1), were carried out in a high-frequency furnace which can ensure both high heating rate and satisfying contact of fuel particles. Synergies between RS and SB during rapid co-pyrolysis were investigated. Intrinsic and morphological structures of residual char from co-pyrolysis, and their effects on gasification characteristics were also studied. Synergies occurred during rapid co-pyrolysis of RS and SB (RS/SB=1:4) resulting in decreasing char yields and increasing volatile yields. Synergies also happened during gasification of the char derived from co-pyrolysis of RS and SB with mass ratio of 1:4. The increased mass ratio of RS to SB did not only weaken synergies during co-pyrolysis, but significantly reduced the gasification rates of the co-pyrolysis char compared to the calculated values. Results can help to optimize co-conversion process of biomass/coal.
22306354	To investigate the effects of copper (Cu), rice plant (Oryza sativa. L. var. MSE-9) was treated with different Cu concentrations (0, 10, 50 and 100 μM) for 5 days in hydroponic condition. Gradual decrease in shoot and root growth was observed with the increase of Cu concentration and duration of treatment where maximum inhibition was recorded in root growth. Cu was readily absorbed by the plant though the maximum accumulation was found in root than shoot. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production and lipid peroxidation were found increased with the elevated Cu concentration indicating excess Cu induced oxidative stress. Antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and glutathione reductase (GR) were effectively generated at the elevated concentrations of Cu though catalase (CAT) did not show significant variation with respect to control. Ascorbate (ASH), glutathione (GSH) and proline contents were also increased in all the Cu treated plants compared with the control. SOD isoenzyme was greatly affected by higher concentration of Cu and it was consistent with the changes of the activity assayed in solution. The present study confirmed that excess Cu inhibits growth, induced oxidative stress by inducing ROS formation while the stimulated antioxidative system appears adaptive response of rice plant against Cu induced oxidative stress. Moreover proline accumulation in Cu stress plant seems to provide additional defense against the oxidative stress.
22306369	Although rice and corn are two main cash crops in Lombardy (North Italy) and their cultivation involves several thousands of farmers, risk assessment of pesticide exposure is rarely done, especially in small and medium sized enterprises. With the use of pads for environmental monitoring (OECD protocol), of pre- and post-exposure 24h urine collection for biological monitoring and of hand wash for hands' exposure, we measured the exposure of 28 agricultural workers to propanil and terbuthylazine in real-life working conditions. In propanil applicators, median daily exposure on the clothes was 73.5μmol per worker, while the exposure on the skin was 22.4μmol. For terbuthylazine, these exposures were 37.2μmol and 0.86μmol per worker, respectively. Median excretion of the propanil metabolite (3,4-dichloroaniline) after exposure was 84nmol in 24h urine, and 13nmol for the metabolite of terbuthylazine. Risk assessment performed by comparing to the AOELs of the applied active ingredients with an estimated internal dose, obtained based on the measured levels of skin and hand exposure and the percentage of dermal absorption of the active ingredients considered showed that 4 propanil workers, and no terbuthylazine workers, were overexposed. Our study helps define and confirm relationships between different exposure determinants, which can be used in the development of tools for risk assessment of exposure to pesticides in small and medium sized enterprises.
22306488	Thirty goats were selected randomly from a village of Nadia district, West Bengal according to the previous reports of human being suffering from chronic arsenicosis. Environmental samples viz. drinking water, rice plants and grass used for goat and biological samples viz. blood, urine, faeces, hair and meat were collected to evaluate the arsenic status. It was found that arsenic concentration in both environmental and biological samples was significantly (p<0.01) higher rather than respective samples on control zone. Bio-concentration factor (BCF) and bio-transfer factor (BTF) are indicated to evaluate the subclinical toxicity in goat as they do not exhibit clinical manifestation like human beings.
22306743	The thermostable endo-1,4-β-glucanase (E1) from Acidothermus cellulolyticus, is a useful enzyme for commercial hydrolysis of cellulose into glucose. A codon-optimized synthetic gene encoding this enzyme was transformed into rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) under the control of the rice seed storage protein Gt1 promoter. The transgenic line C19 was identified as the one with the highest endoglucanase activity among the total of 36 independent transgenic lines obtained. The cellulase activity in the C19 seeds was estimated at about 830U/g of dried seeds using CMC as substrate. The enzymes produced in the seeds had an optimum pH of 5.0 and optimum temperature of 80°C, which is similar to the enzymes produced by the native bacterium host. This study demonstrates that the transgenic rice seeds could be used as a bioreactor for production of enzymes for cellulosic biomass conversion.
22306876	Plant height is one of the most important agronomic traits, which determines grain yield. By a largescale screening of our mutant population, we identified a dwarf with twisty leaf mutant (dwarf and twist leaf 1, dtl1). Besides dwarf with twisty leaf, dtl1 also showed reduced tiller number and sterile phenotypes. Based on the internode length of dtl1, this mutant belongs to the nl type of dwarfing phenotype. Physiological assay with two phytohormones, gibberellin (GA), and brassinosteroid (BR), suggested that dtl1 was neither deficient nor insensitive to GA and BR. Genetic analysis showed that the phenotype of dtl1 was controlled by a single recessive gene. Using F2 population derived from a cross between dtl1 and an indica cultivar Taichung Native 1, the DTL1 gene was narrowed down to a 70.4 kb between two SSR markers, RM25923 and RM6673, on the long arm of chromosome 10, and co-segregated with InDel marker Z10-29, where thirteen open reading frames were predicted without known gene involved in controlling plant height. Thus, the DTL1 gene might be a novel gene which is related to plant height in rice.
22306877	To reveal the genetic variation of rice paddy landraces across 30 years, we compared the genetic variation of between 6 paddy rice landraces grown in Yuanyang Hani's terraced fields in Yuanyang County, Yunnan Province in the 1970s (past-grown landraces) and 6 paired ones that have been grown during the past decade (current-grown landraces) using 60 SSR markers. The results showed that one to four alleles were amplified in 60 loci and 159 alleles in all the landraces tested. The number of alleles from the current-grown landraces decreased by 7 alleles compared to the past-grown landraces. The average number of alleles (Na), effective number of alleles (Ne), locus polymorphism information content (PIC), and genotype diversity (H') of the past-grown landraces were higher than those of the current-grown landraces, with Na of 2.567>2.450, Ne of 2.052>1.968, PIC of 0.469>0.439, and H' of 0.768>0.722. The average genetic similarity coefficient (GS) of the past-grown landraces was 0.437 with a range from 0.200 to 0.700 based on the 60 SSR markers, and the average GS of the current-grown landraces was 0.473 with a range from 0.117 to 0.667. In conclusion, the genetic diversity in current-grown landraces was decreased compared to the past-grown landraces, and the degree of variation in some of the allele locus varied in different rice landraces as a result of 30 years' natural and artificial selection.
22306879	Magnaporthe oryzae is speculated to express and translocate a set of effector proteins to interfere with rice innate immunity and to promote its invasion. In this study, we carried out a transcriptome analysis of early interaction between rice and M. oryzae using a next generation sequencing technology to identify putative effector protein genes. We totally obtained 338 942 M. oryzae derived sequence tags from around 12.5 M gross mixed tags by referring the genome sequence of reference strain 70-15. These M. oryzae sequences were finally mapped to 779 predicted genes. Of these 799 genes, 108 were predicted to be involved in the interaction between rice and M. oryzae and 42 encoded proteins predicted to be secreted. Expression of these 42 putative secreted protein genes were further assessed using a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, which revealed that 12 of them were expressed during the infection. Four of these 12 expressed genes were further confirmed to be expressed specifically during the infection. This study demonstrated an attempt to isolate M. oryzae genes, especially those putative effector protein genes, which are expressed specifically at the early interaction stage using a next-generation sequencing technology.
22307223	This study aimed at investigating the effect of corn, rice and amaranth gluten-free (GF) sourdoughs on the release of nitric oxide (NO) and synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines by duodenal mucosa biopsies of eight coeliac disease (CD) patients. Selected lactic acid bacteria were used as starters for the manufacture of corn, rice or amaranth sourdoughs. Chemically acidified doughs, without bacterial starters, and doughs started with baker's yeast alone were also manufactured from the same GF matrices. Pepsin-trypsin (PT) digests were produced from all sourdoughs and doughs, and used to assay the rate of recovery of biopsy specimens from eight CD patients at diagnosis. The release of NO and the synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines interferon-γ (IFN-γ) were assayed. During fermentation, lactic acid bacteria acidified and grew well (ca. log 9.0 CFU/g) on all GF matrices, showing intense proteolysis. Duodenal biopsy specimens still released NO and IFN-γ when subjected to treatments with basal medium (control), PT-digest from chemically acidified doughs and PT-digest from doughs fermented with baker's yeast alone. On the contrary, the treatment of all the biopsy specimens with PT-digests from all GF matrices subjected to sourdough fermentation significantly decreased the release of NO and the synthesis of IFN-γ. During manufacture of GF baked goods, the use of sourdough fermentation could be considered as an adjuvant to enhance the recovery from intestinal inflammation of coeliac patients at the early stage of the gluten-free diet.
22307303	Autotransporters are a widespread family of proteins, generally known as virulence factors produced by Gram-negative bacteria. In this study, the esterase A (EstA) autotransporter of the rice root-colonizing beneficial bacterium Pseudomonas stutzeri A15 was characterized. A multiple sequence alignment identified EstA as belonging to clade II of the GDSL esterase family. Autologous overexpression allowed the investigation of several features of both autotransporter proteins and GDSL esterases. First, the correctly folded autotransporter was shown to be present in the membrane fraction. Unexpectedly, after separation of the membrane fraction, EstA was detected in the N-laurylsarcosine soluble fraction. However, evidence is presented for the surface exposure of EstA based on fluorescent labeling with EstA specific antibodies. Another remarkable feature is the occurrence of a C-terminal leucine residue instead of the canonical phenylalanine or tryptophan residue. Replacement of this residue with a phenylalanine residue reduced the stability of the β-barrel. Regarding the esterase passenger domain, we show the importance of the catalytic triad residues, with the serine and histidine residues being more critical than the aspartate residue. Furthermore, the growth of an estA-negative mutant was not impaired and cell mobility was not disabled compared to the wild type. No specific phenotype was detected for an estA-negative mutant. Overall, P. stutzeri A15 EstA is a new candidate for the surface display of proteins in environmentally relevant biotechnological applications.
22307505	A Gram-stain-negative, non-motile and coccoid- to short-rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain Dy73(T), was isolated from a microbial fuel cell that had been inoculated with rice paddy field soil and fed starch, peptone and fish extract as fuels. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogeny, strain Dy73(T) was affiliated with the genus Dysgonomonas in the phylum Bacteroidetes, and most closely related to Dysgonomonas mossii CCUG 43457(T) with a 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity value of 99.7 %. However, the DNA-DNA relatedness value between strain Dy73(T) and Dysgonomonas mossii CCUG 43457(T) was 34.8%. In addition, strain Dy73(T) was found to be different from other recognized species of the genus Dysgonomonas in taxonomically important traits, including habitat, DNA G+C content, bile resistance and fatty-acid composition. Based on these characteristics, strain Dy73(T) represents a novel species of the genus Dysgonomonas for which the name Dysgonomonas oryzarvi sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is Dy73(T) (= JCM 16859(T) = KCTC 5936(T)).
22307507	A novel bacterial strain, YC7001(T), was isolated from the rhizosphere soil of rice collected at Jinju, Korea, and was characterized using a polyphasic approach. Cells of strain YC7001(T) were Gram-negative-staining, yellow-pigmented, rod-shaped, aerobic, heterotrophic and non-motile. Strain YC7001(T) grew optimally at 25-30 °C, pH 5.0-8.0 and degraded gelatin, cellulose and chitin. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain YC7001(T) belonged to the genus Chitinophaga in the family Chitinophagaceae. The most closely related species were Chitinophaga sancti NBRC 15057(T) (96.9%), Chitinophaga ginsengisoli Gsoil 052(T) (95.9%), Chitinophaga pinensis DSM 2588(T) (95.7%), Chitinophaga filiformis IFO 15056(T) (95.7%) and Chitinophaga niabensis JS13-10(T) (95.0%). The DNA-DNA relatedness value of strain YC7001(T) with C. sancti NBRC 15057(T) was 15.2 ± 0.6%. Strain YC7001(T) contained MK-7 as the major menaquinone and homospermidine as the major polyamine. The major fatty acids of strain YC7001(T) were C(15:0) iso, C(16:1)ω5c and C(17:0) iso 3-OH. The polar lipids were phosphatidylethanolamine, unknown aminolipids and unknown lipids. The total genomic DNA G+C content was 41.3 mol%. On the basis of phenotypic, chemotaxonomic and phylogenetic analyses, strain YC7001(T) represents a novel species of the genus Chitinophaga, in the family Chitinophagaceae, for which the name Chitinophaga oryziterrae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is YC7001(T) (= KACC 14533(T) = JCM 16595(T)).
2230778	Estimates of relative and absolute density in rice field populations of damselfly nymphs (predominantly Enallagma civile with few Ischnura denticollis) were compared using the regression method. An equation, X = Y divided by 0.0016, allows estimation of absolute density (X) from a relative density index (Y, dipper count). In the rice growing area of Fresno, California, nymphal population peaks appeared during June and August approaching 3-5 million per 0.405 ha (1 acre). Spatial distribution was theoretically represented fairly well by a negative-binomial distribution. The degree of clumping is one of overdispersed types; it is especially classified as a model of randomly distributed colonies with mean colony size fixed. Presence or absence of submerged vegetation markedly affected damselfly nymphal density but the biomass of submerged or emerged vegetation was not a significant factor.
2230784	Controlled burning reduced the number of viable eggs in an Aedes population. The effectiveness of the burn was related to the amount of rainfall, surface moisture and dry vegetation. A greater reduction in viable eggs occurred when the burn was close to the ground. Variable results were achieved if the surface was moist but there was a significant reduction in the number of viable eggs, due to a heavy amount of dry vegetation accompanied by low rainfall.
22308482	Hybrid rice has greatly contributed to the global increase of rice productivity. A major component that facilitated the development of hybrids was a mutant showing photoperiod-sensitive male sterility (PSMS) with its fertility regulated by day length. Transcriptome studies have shown that large portions of the eukaryotic genomic sequences are transcribed to long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). However, the potential roles for only a few lncRNAs have been brought to light at present. Thus, great efforts have to be invested to understand the biological functions of lncRNAs. Here we show that a lncRNA of 1,236 bases in length, referred to as long-day-specific male-fertility-associated RNA (LDMAR), regulates PSMS in rice. We found that sufficient amount of the LDMAR transcript is required for normal pollen development of plants grown under long-day conditions. A spontaneous mutation causing a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) between the wild-type and mutant altered the secondary structure of LDMAR. This change brought about increased methylation in the putative promoter region of LDMAR, which reduced the transcription of LDMAR specifically under long-day conditions, resulting in premature programmed cell death (PCD) in developing anthers, thus causing PSMS. Thus, a lncRNA could directly exert a major effect on a trait like a structure gene, and a SNP could alter the function of a lncRNA similar to amino acid substitution in structural genes. Molecular elucidating of PSMS has important implications for understanding molecular mechanisms of photoperiod regulation of many biological processes and also for developing male sterile germplasms for hybrid crop breeding.
22309044	Foods produced on soils impacted by antimony (Sb) mining activities are a potential health risk due to plant uptake of the contaminant metalloids (Sb) and arsenic (As). Here we report for the first time the chemical speciation of Sb in soil and porewater of flooded paddy soil, impacted by active Sb mining, and its effect on uptake and speciation in rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv Jiahua). Results are compared with behavior and uptake of As. Pot experiments were conducted under controlled conditions in a climate chamber over a period of 50 days. In pots without rice plants, flooding increased both the concentration of dissolved Sb (up to ca. 2000 μg L(-1)) and As (up to ca. 1500 μg L(-1)). When rice was present, Fe plaque developing on rice roots acted as a scavenger for both As and Sb, whereby the concentration of As, but not Sb, in porewater decreased substantially. Dissolved Sb in porewater, which occurred mainly as Sb(V), correlated with Ca, indicating a solubility governed by Ca antimonate. No significant differences in bioaccumulation factor and translocation factor between Sb and As were observed. Greater relative concentration of Sb(V) was found in rice shoots compared to rice root and porewater, indicating either a preferred uptake of Sb(V) or possibly an oxidation of Sb(III) to Sb(V) in shoots. Adding soil amendments (olivine, hematite) to the paddy soil had no effect on Sb and As concentrations in porewater.
22309461	The demand for gluten-free bread is growing as the recognition of celiac disease and wheat allergy has increased worldwide. In our previous study, reduced glutathione (GSH) was found to improve the gas-retaining properties of rice batter used for gluten-free bread. In this article, oxidized glutathione (GSSG) was shown to have the same effect. Moreover, sensory tests revealed that GSSG bread had a significantly reduced sulfurous odor. Analyses by a gas chromatography-flame photometric detector demonstrated the presence of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan in the headspace of GSH bread, and also their significant reduction in GSSG bread. The viscoelastic properties and microstructures of GSSG and GSH bread did not noticeably differ. These observations suggest the usefulness of GSSG in making gluten-free rice bread and extend our knowledge of the use of glutathione in food processing. Practical Application: Glutathione, a widely-distributed peptide in cells, improves the bread-making quality of gluten-free rice batter. While both the reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione are effective, GSSG-bread has significantly reduced sulfurous odor compared to GSH-bread.
22309938	The mechanism of arsenic (As) tolerance was investigated on two contrasting rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes, selected for As tolerance and accumulation. One tolerant (Triguna) and one sensitive (IET-4786) variety were exposed to various arsenate (0-50 μM) levels for 7 d for biochemical analyses. Arsenic induced oxidative stress was more pronounced in IET-4786 than Triguna especially in terms of reactive oxygen species, lipid peroxidation, EC and pro-oxidant enzymes (NADPH oxidase and ascorbate oxidase). However, Triguna tolerated As stress through the enhanced enzymes activities particularly pertaining to thiol metabolism such as serine acetyl transferase (SAT), cysteine synthase (CS), γ-glutamyl cysteine synthase (γ-ECS), γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (γ-GT), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) as well as arsenate reductase (AR). Besides maintaining the ratio of redox couples GSH/GSSG and ASC/DHA, the level of phytochelatins (PCs) and phytochelatin synthase (PCS) activity were more pronounced in Triguna, in which harmonized responses of thiol metabolism was responsible for As tolerance in contrast to IET-4786 showing its susceptible nature towards As exposure.
22310846	The acute toxicity of potassium thiocyanate (KSCN) and ammonium thiocyanate (NH(4)SCN) to rice seedlings was tested. Hydroponically-grown plants showed different responses to the two species of thiocyanate. NH(4)SCN caused more severe stress to rice seedlings than KSCN. A significant reduction in transpiration and relative growth was observed with all NH(4)SCN treatments (p < 0.01), while the effect of KSCN on rice seedlings was more evident at greater than 100 mg SCN/L (p < 0.01). Both chemicals had a negligible effect on total chlorophyll content in shoots of rice seedlings (p > 0.05). Although phyto-transport of thiocyanate was apparent, rice seedlings showed significantly higher removal potential for NH(4)SCN than KSCN.
22311371	Exploitation of heterosis has brought significant advance in plant breeding and agricultural production, although its genetic basis is still poorly understood. In this study, a total of 66 chromosome segment substitution (CSS) lines, derived from a cross between japonica rice inbred line Asominori (as the recurrent parent) and indica rice inbred line IR24 (as the donor parent), were used to investigate the genetic basis of heterosis in indica × japonica inter-subspecific rice hybrids. Each CSS line was crossed with the background parent Asominori, and the heterosis of F(1) hybrids was estimated by comparing the F(1) performance with its two parental lines. Field experiments were carried out across six different environments to evaluate yield and yield-related traits in the 66 CSS lines and their 66 corresponding F(1) hybrids. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analyses were conducted using a likelihood ratio test based on the stepwise regression. Thirty-six QTL were identified with significant effects in CSSL, 21 with significant effects in hybrids and 13 with significant effects in both. On the basis of average dominance degree, of all the 70 QTL affecting yield-related agronomic traits, 28.6% (20) showed an overdominance, 35.7% (25) a partial dominance and 30% (21) an additive effect, indicating that all effects contribute to trait variation in japonica-indica rice hybrids. Effects of these QTL were examined to identify Indica rice chromosome segments of interest for the improvement of japonica inbred lines and hybrids.
22312119	The appearance and cooking quality of rice determine its acceptability and price to a large extent. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for 12 grain quality traits were mapped in 2 mapping populations derived from Oryza sativa cv Swarna × O. nivara. The BC(2)F(2) population of the cross Swarna × O. nivara IRGC81848 (population 1) was evaluated during 2005 and that from Swarna × O. nivara IRGC81832 (population 2) was evaluated during 2006. Linkage maps were constructed using 100 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers in population 1 and 75 SSR markers in population 2. In all, 21 QTLs were identified in population 1 (43% from O. nivara) and 37 in population 2 (38% QTLs from O. nivara). The location of O. nivara-derived QTLs mp1.2 for milling percent, kw6.1 for kernel width, and klac12.1 for kernel length after cooking coincided in the 2 populations and appear to be useful for Marker Assisted Selection (MAS). Four QTLs for milling percent, 1 QTL each for amylose content, water uptake, elongation ratio, 2 QTLs for kernel width, and 3 QTLs for gel consistency, each explained more than 20% phenotypic variance. Three QTL clusters for grain quality traits were close to the genes/QTLs for shattering and seed dormancy. QTLs for 4 quality traits were associated with 5 of the 7 major yield QTLs reported in the same 2 mapping populations. Useful introgression lines have been developed for several agronomic traits. It emerges that 40% O. nivara alleles were trait enhancing in both populations, and QTLs for grain quality overlapped with yield meta-QTLs and QTLs for dormancy and seed shattering.
22312566	Malaria resurgence risk in Morocco depends, among other factors, on environmental changes as well as the introduction of parasite carriers. The aim of this paper is to analyze the receptivity of the Loukkos area, large wetlands in Northern Morocco, to quantify and to map malaria transmission risk in this region using biological and environmental data. This risk was assessed on entomological risk basis and was mapped using environmental markers derived from satellite imagery. Maps showing spatial and temporal variations of entomological risk for Plasmodium vivax and P. falciparum were produced. Results showed this risk to be highly seasonal and much higher in rice fields than in swamps. This risk is lower for Afrotropical P. falciparum strains because of the low infectivity of Anopheles labranchiae, principal malaria vector in Morocco. However, it is very high for P. vivax mainly during summer corresponding to the rice cultivation period. Although the entomological risk is high in Loukkos region, malaria resurgence risk remains very low, because of the low vulnerability of the area.
22313362	Synthetic chemical elicitors of plant defense have been touted as a powerful means for sustainable crop protection. Yet, they have never been successfully applied to control insect pests in the field. We developed a high-throughput chemical genetics screening system based on a herbivore-induced linalool synthase promoter fused to a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter construct to test synthetic compounds for their potential to induce rice defenses. We identified 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), an auxin homolog and widely used herbicide in monocotyledonous crops, as a potent elicitor of rice defenses. Low doses of 2,4-D induced a strong defensive reaction upstream of the jasmonic acid and ethylene pathways, resulting in a marked increase in trypsin proteinase inhibitor activity and volatile production. Induced plants were more resistant to the striped stem borer Chilo suppressalis, but became highly attractive to the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens and its main egg parasitoid Anagrus nilaparvatae. In a field experiment, 2,4-D application turned rice plants into living traps for N. lugens by attracting parasitoids. Our findings demonstrate the potential of auxin homologs as defensive signals and show the potential of the herbicide to turn rice into a selective catch crop for an economically important pest.
22313392	The aim of this study was to analyze the effects of maternal smoking on the total antioxidant status (TAS) and the concentrations of vitamins A and E in human breastmilk. The study group (n=20) comprised postpartum women who declared smoking more than five cigarettes per day (confirmed by urinalysis of the cotinine concentration). The control group included 25 nonsmoking postpartum women. Breastmilk samples were collected between day 30 and day 32 after delivery. TAS was determined by Rice-Evans and Miller method, whereas the amount of vitamins A and E was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. No significant differences were observed between breastmilk samples from smoking and nonsmoking mothers in terms of TAS and vitamin A and E concentrations. Additionally, no significant correlations were found between urinary cotinine and TAS (R=0.35, p=0.144) or vitamin A (R=0.14, p=0.571) and vitamin E (R=0.31, p=0.228) concentrations in breastmilk samples from smoking mothers. Maternal smoking is not reflected by decreased TAS and vitamin A and E concentrations in mature milk.
22313491	Sexual reproduction may be cryptic or facultative in fungi and therefore difficult to detect. Magnaporthe oryzae, which causes blast, the most damaging fungal disease of rice, is thought to originate from southeast Asia. It reproduces asexually in all rice-growing regions. Sexual reproduction has been suspected in limited areas of southeast Asia, but has never been demonstrated in contemporary populations. We characterized several M. oryzae populations worldwide both biologically and genetically, to identify candidate populations for sexual reproduction. The sexual cycle of M. oryzae requires two strains of opposite mating types, at least one of which is female-fertile, to come into contact. In one Chinese population, the two mating types were found to be present at similar frequencies and almost all strains were female-fertile. Compatible strains from this population completed the sexual cycle in vitro and produced viable progenies. Genotypic richness and linkage disequilibrium data also supported the existence of sexual reproduction in this population. We resampled this population the following year, and the data obtained confirmed the presence of all the biological and genetic characteristics of sexual reproduction. In particular, a considerable genetic reshuffling of alleles was observed between the 2 years. Computer simulations confirmed that the observed genetic characteristics were unlikely to have arisen in the absence of recombination. We therefore concluded that a contemporary population of M. oryzae, pathogenic on rice, reproduces sexually in natura in southeast Asia. Our findings provide evidence for the loss of sexual reproduction by a fungal plant pathogen outside its centre of origin.
22313755	The marine sediment-derived fungus Penicillium commune QSD-17 was re-investigated and cultured on rice solid medium. Two new compounds, isophomenone (1) and 3-deacetylcitreohybridonol (2), together with seven known derivatives (3-9), were identified. Their structures were determined by spectroscopic analysis.
22313777	The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of rice porridge on the texture and viscoelastic properties of bread during storage. Three types of bread, wheat flour bread, 15% rice flour bread, and 15% rice porridge bread, were prepared. After baking and storing the bread for 24 h, 48 h, and 72 h at room temperature, we measured the texture and viscoelastic properties of the bread crumbs by texture profile analysis (TPA) and creep test. The 15% rice porridge bread showed a significantly higher specific volume and maintained softer crumbs than the other two types (p<0.05). It also had a slightly stickier texture than the others. It can be concluded that rice porridge improves the specific volume, texture, and viscoelastic properties of bread crumbs during storage.
22313783	We have already shown that major rice diterpene phytoalexin, momilactone A, was detoxified by Magnaporthe oryzae. We report here the identification by NMR, MS, and chemical synthesis of 3,6-dioxo-19-nor-9β-pimara-7,15-diene (1) as the degradation intermediate. Compound 1 exhibited similar antifungal activity to that of momilactone A, indicating 1 to be a precursor of possible detoxified compounds.
22314574	Only a small fraction of the naturally occurring genetic diversity available in the world's germplasm repositories has been explored to date, but this is expected to change with the advent of affordable, high-throughput genotyping and sequencing technology. It is now possible to examine genome-wide patterns of natural variation and link sequence polymorphisms with downstream phenotypic consequences. In this paper, we discuss how dramatic changes in the cost and efficiency of sequencing and genotyping are revolutionizing the way gene bank scientists approach the responsibilities of their job. Sequencing technology provides a set of tools that can be used to enhance the quality, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of gene bank operations, the depth of scientific knowledge of gene bank holdings, and the level of public interest in natural variation. As a result, gene banks have the chance to take on new life. Previously seen as "warehouses" where seeds were diligently maintained, but evolutionarily frozen in time, gene banks could transform into vibrant research centers that actively investigate the genetic potential of their holdings. In this paper, we will discuss how genotyping and sequencing can be integrated into the activities of a modern gene bank to revolutionize the way scientists document the genetic identity of their accessions; track seed lots, varieties, and alleles; identify duplicates; and rationalize active collections, and how the availability of genomics data are likely to motivate innovative collaborations with the larger research and breeding communities to engage in systematic and rigorous phenotyping and multilocation evaluation of the genetic resources in gene banks around the world. The objective is to understand and eventually predict how variation at the DNA level helps determine the phenotypic potential of an individual or population. Leadership and vision are needed to coordinate the characterization of collections and to integrate genotypic and phenotypic information in ways that will illuminate the value of these resources. Genotyping of collections represents a powerful starting point that will enable gene banks to become more effective as stewards of crop biodiversity.
22316298	Grains of sugary rice were extracted with 80% aqueous methanol, and the concentrated extracts were successively partitioned using ethyl acetate, n-butanol, and water. From the n-butanol fractions, four flavonoid glycosides were isolated through repeated silica gel, octadecyl silica gel, and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatographies. Based on the nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, and infrared spectroscopic data, the chemical structures of the compounds were determined to be taxifolin-7-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (1), hyperin (2), isoquercitrin (3), and quercetin gentiobioside (4). These compounds were isolated from the grains of sugary rice for the first time. All isolated compounds were tested for antioxidant activity and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-antioxidative activity using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and LDL assays. Compound 1 exhibited a strong scavenging effect on DPPH, with a 50% inhibition concentration (IC(50)) value of 8.1 μM, and also inhibited LDL oxidation with an IC(50) value of 40.0±20 μM. A simple and efficient high-performance liquid chromatography/diode array detection method for the simultaneous determination of the four bioactive flavonoids (1-4) has been developed and applied to their content determination in the sugary rice. The grains were extracted by 80% methanol, and the contents of 1, 2, 3, and 4 were determined to be 1.12±0.045, 0.65±0.011, 0.68±0.032, and 0.89±0.021 mg/g, respectively.
22316345	A total of 230 samples of processed rice and its sub-products or derived products were analysed to establish the co-occurrence of several mycotoxins. Samples were analysed in the period 2007-2009 due to the outbreak of beriberi associated with the consumption of rice stored in inappropriate conditions in Brazil. According to data from the Ministry of Health, 323 cases of disease were registered in 2006, of which at least 47 cases resulted in death. The occurrence of total aflatoxin (AFT) (aflatoxin B(1) + B(2) + G(1) + G(2)), ochratoxin A (OTA), zearalenone (ZON), deoxynivalenol (DON), and citreoviridin (CTV) was 58.7%, 40.0%, 45.2%, 8.3% and 22.5%, respectively. From 166 rice samples analysed, 55% had levels <0.11 µg kg(-1) for AFT. For OTA and ZON, of 165 rice samples analysed, 28% and 29% were contaminated with levels from 0.20 to 0.24 µg kg(-1) and from 3.6 to 290.0 µg kg(-1), respectively. One sample (0.6%) was contaminated with 4872.0 µg kg(-1) of ZON. A total of 91% of rice samples (n = 165) did not contain detectable DON (<30.00 µg kg(-1)), although the highest level of contamination was found to be 244 µg kg(-1). From the total of 65 samples analysed, 94% had no detectable CTV (<0.9 µg kg(-1)), with a range from 0.9 to 31.1 µg kg(-1) in 6% of the samples. The highest levels of contamination were found in rice sub-products or derived products from the husk and rice bran. Co-occurrence was observed for AFT and ZON in 17.0%, AFT and OTA in 24.2%, AFT and CTV in 6.2%, OTA and CTV in 4.6%, and ZON and CTV in 3.1%. These fractions were also the major contributors for the co-occurrence. The results found show the necessity of monitoring rice production.
22316588	Quinclorac (QNC) is an effective but rather persistent herbicide commonly used in rice production. This herbicide presents a mean persistence in the environment so its residues are considered of environmental relevance. However, few studies have been conducted to investigate its environmental behavior and degradation. In the present work, direct photolysis and TiO(2) photocatalysis of the target compound in ultrapure and paddy field water were investigated. After 10h photolysis in ultrapure water, the concentration of QNC declined 26% and 54% at 250 and 700 W m(-2), respectively. However, the amount of quinclorac in paddy field water remained almost constant under the same irradiation conditions. QNC dissipated completely after 40 min of TiO(2) photocatalysis in ultrapure water, whereas 130 min were necessary to degrade 98% of the initial concentration in paddy field water. Possible QNC photolytic and photocatalytic degradation pathways are proposed after structure elucidation of the main transformation products, through liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry and exact mass measurements. Pyridine ring hydroxylation at C-9 followed by ring opening and/or oxidative dechlorination were the key steps of QNC degradation.
22316602	Cereals have evolved chelation systems to mobilize insoluble iron in the soil, but in rice this process is rather inefficient, making the crop highly susceptible to alkaline soils. We therefore engineered rice to express the barley iron-phytosiderophore transporter (HvYS1), which enables barley plants to take up iron from alkaline soils. A representative transgenic rice line was grown in standard (pH 5.5) or alkaline soil (pH 8.5) to evaluate alkaline tolerance and iron mobilization. Transgenic plants developed secondary tillers and set seeds when grown in standard soil although iron concentration remained similar in leaves and seeds compared to wild type. However, when grown in alkaline soil transgenic plants exhibited enhanced growth, yield and iron concentration in leaves compared to the wild type plants which were severely stunted. Transgenic plants took up iron more efficiently from alkaline soil compared to wild type, indicating an enhanced capacity to increase iron mobility ex situ. Interestingly, all the additional iron accumulated in vegetative tissues, i.e. there was no difference in iron concentration in the seeds of wild type and transgenic plants. Our data suggest that iron uptake from the rhizosphere can be enhanced through expression of HvYS1 and confirm the operation of a partitioning mechanism that diverts iron to leaves rather than seeds, under stress.
22317787	Proline (Pro) and Trehalose (Tre) function as compatible solutes and are upregulated in plants under abiotic stress. They play an osmoprotective role in physiological responses, enabling the plants to better tolerate the adverse effects of abiotic stress. We investigated the effect of exogenous Pro and Tre (10 mM) in seedlings of Thai aromatic rice (cv. KDML105; salt-sensitive) during salt stress and subsequent recovery. Salt stress (S, NaCl) resulted in growth reduction, increase in the Na(+)/K(+) ratio, increase in Pro level and up-regulation of Pro synthesis genes (pyrroline-5-carboxylatesynthetase, P5CS; pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase, P5CR) as well as accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), increased activity of antioxidative enzymes (superoxide dismutase, SOD; peroxidase, POX; ascorbate peroxidase, APX; catalase, CAT) and transcript up-regulation of genes encoding antioxidant enzymes (Cu/ZnSOD, MnSOD, CytAPX, CatC). Under salt stress, exogenous Pro (PS; Pro+NaCl) reduced the Na(+)/K(+) ratio, further increased endogenous Pro and transcript levels of P5CS and P5CR, but decreased the activity of the four antioxidant enzymes. The transcription of genes encoding several antioxidant enzymes was upregulated. Exogenous Tre (TS; Tre+NaCl) also reduced the Na(+)/K(+) ratio and strongly decreased endogenous Pro. Transcription of P5CS and P5CR was upregulated, the activities of SOD and POX decreased, the activity of APX increased and the transcription of all antioxidant enzyme genes upregulated. Although exogenous osmoprotectants did not alleviate growth inhibition during salt stress, they exhibited a pronounced beneficial effect during recovery period showing higher percentage of growth recovery in PS (162.38%) and TS (98.43%) compared with S (3.68%). During recovery, plants treated with PS showed a much greater reduction in endogenous Pro than NaCl-treated (S) or Tre-treated plants (TS). Increase in CAT activity was most related to significant reduction in H(2)O(2), particularly in the case of PS-treated plants. Advantageous effects of Pro were also associated with increase in APX activity during recovery.
22318966	A 5-year-old boy with autism developed dry eye and xerophthalmia. Serum vitamin A was undetectable. Dietary history revealed a markedly altered intake consisting of only fried potatoes and rice balls for 2 years. Fried potatoes contain no vitamin A. Autism is a multifaceted developmental disorder infrequently accompanied by abnormal eating practices. To the authors' knowledge, most children with autism who develop dietary vitamin A deficiency have consumed an excess of fried potatoes. Attention to possible vitamin A deficiency is essential when fried potatoes are consumed exclusively.
22319054	The switch from mitosis to meiosis is one of the most pivotal events in eukaryotes undergoing sexual reproduction. However, the mechanisms orchestrating meiosis initiation remain elusive, particularly in plants. Flowering plants are heterosporous, with male and female spore genesis adopting different developmental courses. We show here that plant pollen mother cells contain a specific meiosis initiation machinery through characterization of a rice (Oryza sativa) gene, MICROSPORELESS1 (MIL1). The mil1 mutant does not produce microspores in anthers but has the normal female fertility. Detailed molecular and cytological investigations demonstrate that mil1 anthers are defective in the meiotic entry of sporogenous cell progenies and in the differentiation of surrounding somatic cell layers, resulting in locules filled with somatic cells instead of microspores. Furthermore, analysis of mil1 msp1 double mutants reveals that due to the absence of MIL1, the cells in their anther locule center do not activate meiotic cell cycle either, generating a similar anther phenotype to mil1. MIL1 encodes a plant-specific CC-type glutaredoxin, which could interact with TGA transcription factors. These results suggest meiotic entry in microsporocytes is directed by an anther-specific mechanism, which requires MIL1 activity, and redox regulation might play important roles in this process.
22319137	Results from studies on the domestication process of Asian rice Oryza sativa have been controversial because of its complicated evolutionary history. Previous studies have yielded two alternative hypotheses about the origin(s) of the two major groups of O. sativa: japonica and indica. One study proposes a single common wild ancestor, whereas the other suggests that there were multiple domestication events of different types of wild rice. Here, we provide clear evidence of the independent domestication of japonica and indica obtained via high-throughput sequencing and a large-scale comparative analysis of two wild rice accessions (W1943 and W0106) and two cultivars (a japonica cultivar called "Nipponbare" and an indica cultivar called "Guangluai-4"). The different domestication processes of the two cultivar groups appear to have led to distinct patterns of molecular evolution in protein-coding regions. The intensity of purifying selection was relaxed only in the japonica group, possibly because of a bottleneck effect. Moreover, a genome-wide comparison between Nipponbare, Guangluai-4, and another indica cultivar (93-11) suggests multiple hybridization events between japonica and indica, both before and after the divergence of the indica cultivars. We found that a large amount of genomic DNA, including domestication-related genes, was transferred from japonica to indica, which might have been important in the development of modern rice. Our study provides an overview of the dynamic process of Asian rice domestication, including independent domestication events and subsequent gene flow.
22319328	In order to satisfy the higher and higher demand for communication systems, an Extended Binary Phase Shift Keying (EBPSK) system with very high spectra efficiency has been proposed. During the research, a special kind of filters was found, which can amplify the signal characteristics and remove utmost noise, i.e., at the point of the phase jumping corresponding to code "1", produce the amplitude impulse much higher than code "0", therefore, the aim of our study was to analyze the BER performance of the impacting filter assisted EBPSK-MODEM. Considering the receiver filtered "0" and "1"signal with Rice amplitude distribution, just having different mean values, so the BER performance of EBPSK is deduced based on the classic detection theory, and compared with the traditional BPSK modulation both in spectra efficiency and in BER performance, which lays the theoretical foundation for the feasibility of Ultra Narrow Band communications based on EBPSK modulation.
22319865	An investigation was made to see the salt tolerance of 10 weed species of rice. Properly dried and treated seeds of weed species were placed on 9 cm diameter petridishes lined with Whatman No. 1 filter paper under 6 salinity regimes, viz. 0 (control), 4, 8, 16, 24 and 32 dS m(-1). The petri dishes were then kept in germinator at 25 +/- 1.0 degrees C and 12 hr light. The number of germinated seeds were recorded daily. The final germination percentage, germination index (GI), seedling vigour index, mean germination time and time for 50% germination were estimated. Root and shoot lengths of the weed seedlings were measured at 20 days after salt application and relative growth values were calculated. Results revealed that salinity decreased final germination percentage, seed of germination as measured by GI, and shoot and root length in all the species. Germination of most of the weed seeds was completely arrested (0) at 32 dS m(-1) salinity except in E. colona (12%) and C. iria (13.9%). The species C. iria, E. colona, J. linifolia and E. crusgalli showed better germination (above 30%) upto 24 dS m(-1) salinity level and were regarded as salt-tolerant weed species. J. linifolia, F. miliacea, L. chinensis and O. sativa L. (weedy rice) were graded as moderately tolerant and S. zeylanica, S. grosus and C. difformis were regarded as least tolerant weed species.
22319876	Use of phosphate-solubilizing bacteria (PSB) as inoculants has concurrently increased phosphorous uptake in plants and improved yields in several crop species. The ability of PSB to improve growth of aerobic rice (Oryza sativa L.) through enhanced phosphorus (P) uptake from Christmas island rock phosphate (RP) was studied in glasshouse experiments. Two isolated PSB strains; Bacillus spp. PSB9 and PSB16, were evaluated with RP treatments at 0, 30 and 60 kg ha(-1). Surface sterilized seeds of aerobic rice were planted in plastic pots containing 3 kg soil and the effect of treatments incorporated at planting were observed over 60 days of growth. The isolated PSB strains (PSB9 and PSB16) solubilized significantly high amounts of P (20.05-24.08 mg kg(-1)) compared to non-inoculated (19-23.10 mg kg(-1)) treatments. Significantly higher P solubilization (24.08 mg kg(-1)) and plant P uptake (5.31 mg plant(-1)) was observed with the PSB16 strain at the highest P level of 60 kg ha(-1). The higher amounts of soluble P in the soil solution increased P uptake in plants and resulted in higher plant biomass (21.48 g plant(-1)). PSB strains also increased plant height (80 cm) and improved root morphology in aerobic rice. The results showed that inoculation of aerobic rice with PSB improved phosphate solubilizing activity of incorporated RP.
22319878	Field experiments were conducted to study the effect of organic matrix based slow release fertilizers (SRFs) on plant growth, nitrate assimilation and seed yield of Brassica juncea L. cv, pusa bold. The agro-waste materials like cow dung, clay soil, neem leaves and rice bran were mixed together in 2:2:1:1 ratio and used as organic matrix for the immobilization of chemical fertilizer nutrients with commercial grade saresh (Acacia gum, 15% solution) as binder. Different fertilizer treatments were organic matrix based slow release fertilizers, SRF-I (542.0 kg ha(-1)); SRF-II (736.5 kg ha(-1)) and chemical fertilizer combinations, boron (3 kg ha(-1))+sulphur (15 kg ha(-1))+nitrogen (80 kg ha(-1)) and boron (3 kg ha(-1)) + sulphur (15 kg ha(-1))+nitrogen (80 kg ha(-1))+phosphorus (15 kg ha(-1))+potassium (100 kg ha(-1)). Organic matrix based SRF-II released ammonium up to 50-d in wetsoil under laboratory conditions which showed maximum retention of the nutrients. Avery significant increase in plant growth, nitrate assimilation and seed yield was recorded in organic matrix based SRF-II applied plants. The maximum percent increase in biomass production was observed with organic matrix based SRF-II (increase of 65.8% in root fresh weight, 38.0% in root dry weight, 45.9% in leaf fresh weight plant(-1) and 27.5 % in leaf dry weight plant(-1) in 60-d old plants). It also increased the acquisition and assimilation of nitrate from the plant's rhizosphere which was evident by 45.6% increase in nitrate, 27.5% in nitrite and 11.7% in nitrate reductase activity (NRA) in leaves of 45-d old plants over control. The organic matrix based SRF-II significantly increased the seed yield by 28% in Indian mustard. Cost analysis revealed thatthis formulation is cost effective as it is based on agro waste materials.
22320076	An automatic screening method based on HPLC/time-of-flight (TOF)-MS (full scan) was used for the analysis of 103 non-European fruit and vegetable samples after extraction by the quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe method. The screening method uses a database that includes 300 pesticides, their fragments, and isotopical signals (910 ions) that identified 210 pesticides in 78 positive samples, with the highest number of detection being nine pesticides/sample. The concentrations of 97 pesticides were <10 microg/kg, 53 were between 10 and 100 microg/kg, and 60 were at a concentration of >100 microg/kg. Several parameters of the automatic screening method were carefully studied to avoid false positives and negatives in the studied samples; these included peak filter (number of chromatographic peak counts) and search criteria (retention time and error window). These parameters were affected by differences in mass accuracy and sensitivity of the two HPLC/TOF-MS systems used with different resolution powers (15 000 and 7500), the capabilities of which for resolving the ions included in the database from the matrix ions were studied in four matrixes, viz., pepper, rice, garlic, and cauliflower. Both of these mass resolutions were found to be satisfactory to resolve interferences from the signals of interest in the studied matrixes.
22321318	Because the comprehensive effects on metabolism by genetic manipulation of leaf Rubisco content are unknown, metabolome analysis was carried out on transgenic rice plants with increased or decreased Rubisco content using the capillary electrophoresis-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CE-TOFMS) technique. In RBCS-sense plants, an increase in Rubisco content did not improve light-saturated photosynthesis. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and sedoheputulose 7-phosphate levels increased, but ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP), ATP and ADP levels were not affected. It is considered from these results that RuBP regeneration independent of ATP supply became a bottleneck for photosynthesis. In RBCS-antisense plants, a decline in Rubisco content decreased photosynthesis with a substantial accumulation of RuBP. ATP and ADP levels also increased and were associated with increases in the diphosphate and triphosphate compounds of other nucleosides. These results imply that a decline in Rubisco content slowed down the Calvin cycle and that the resultant excess energy of ATP was transferred to other nucleoside diphosphates and triphosphates. The levels of amino acids tended to decline in RBCS-sense plants and increase in RBCS-antisense plants, probably reflecting the demand for Rubisco synthesis. Starch and carbohydrate levels decreased only in RBCS-antisense plants. Thus, genetic manipulation of Rubisco contents widely affected C and N metabolism in rice.
22321692	Heat shock proteins (Hsps) play an important role in plant stress tolerance. We previously reported that expression of OsHsp17.0 and OsHsp23.7 could be enhanced by heat shock treatment and/or other abiotic stresses. In this paper, stress tolerance assays of transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsHsp17.0 and OsHsp23.7 have been carried out. Both OsHsp17.0-OE and OsHsp23.7-OE transgenic lines demonstrated higher germination ability compared to wild-type (WT) plants when subjected to mannitol and NaCl. Phenotypic analysis showed that transgenic rice lines displayed a higher tolerance to drought and salt stress compared to WT plants. In addition, transgenic rice lines showed significantly lower REC, lower MDA content and higher free proline content than WT under drought and salt stresses. These results suggest that OsHsp17.0 and OsHsp23.7 play an important role in rice acclimation to salt and drought stresses and are useful for engineering drought and salt tolerance rice.
22322383	[corrected] Hypoxia-ischemia (HI) injury in term infants develops with a delay during the recovery phase, opening up a therapeutic window after the insult. Hypothermia is currently an established neuroprotective treatment in newborns with neonatal encephalopathy (NE), saving one in nine infants from developing neurological deficits. Caspase-2 is an initiator caspase, a key enzyme in the route to destruction and, therefore, theoretically a potential target for a pharmaceutical strategy to prevent HI brain damage. The aim of this study was to explore the neuroprotective efficacy of hypothermia in combination with caspase-2 gene deficiency using the neonatal Rice-Vannucci model of HI injury in mice. HI brain injury was moderately reduced in caspase-2(-/-) mice as compared with wild-type (WT) mice. Five hours of hypothermia (33 °C) vs. normothermia (36 °C) directly after HI provided additive protection overall (temperature P = 0.0004, caspase-2 genotype P = 0.0029), in the hippocampus and thalamus, but not in other gray matter regions or white matter. Delayed hypothermia initiated 2 h after HI in combination with caspase-2 gene deficiency reduced injury in the hippocampus, but not in other brain areas. In conclusion, caspase-2 gene deficiency combined with hypothermia provided enhanced neuroprotection as compared with hypothermia alone.
22323045	In this study, Arsenic (As) was measured in several varieties of imported and local cultivated rice. Soil samples collected from rice farms situated in south Caspian Sea (Iran) were also studied. The mean concentration of As in imported rice, local farmed rice and soil, were determined as 0.28, 0.39 and 3.80 μg g(-1) dry weight, respectively. Estimated daily intake of As through human consumption of imported and local produced rice was 0.77 and 1.074 μg day(-1) kg(-1) B.W., respectively. These values are much lower than the tolerable daily intakes estimated by JECFA. The As concentration in the soil (3.80 μg g(-1) dry) was below acceptable limit for agricultural soil of 20.0 mg kg(-1) as recommended by the European Community (EC). No correlation between the As concentrations in rice and soil samples was found (p > 0.05).
22324450	The separation and determination of tocopherols (Ts) and tocotrienols (T3s) by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection has been developed and validated after optimization of various chromatographic conditions and other experimental parameters. Analytes were separated on a PerfectSil Target ODS-3 (250 × 4.6 mm, 3 μm) column filled with a novel sorbent material of ultrapure silica gel. The separation of Ts and T3s was optimized in terms of mobile-phase composition and column temperature on the basis of the best compromise among efficiency, resolution, and analysis time. Using a gradient elution of mobile phase composed of isopropanol/water and 7 °C column temperature, a satisfactory resolution was achieved within 62 min. For the quantitative determination, α-T acetate (50 μg/mL) was used as the internal standard. Detection limits ranged from 0.27 μg/mL (γ-T) to 0.76 μg/mL (γ-T3). The validation of the method was examined performing intraday (n = 5) and interday (n = 3) assays and was found to be satisfactory, with high accuracy and precision results. Solid-phase extraction provided high relative extraction recoveries from cereal samples: 87.0% for γ-T3 and 115.5% for δ-T. The method was successfully applied to cereals, such as durum wheat, bread wheat, rice, barley, oat, rye, and corn.
22324885	Oryza meridionalis is a wild species of rice, endemic to tropical Australia. It shares a significant genome homology with the common domesticated rice Oryza sativa. Exploiting the fact that the two species are highly related but O. meridionalis has superior heat tolerance, experiments were undertaken to identify the impact of temperature on key events in photosynthesis. At an ambient CO(2) partial pressure of 38 Pa and irradiance of 1500 µmol quanta m(-2) s(-1), the temperature optimum of photosynthesis was 33.7 ± 0.8°C for O. meridionalis, significantly higher than the 30.6 ± 0.7°C temperature optimum of O. sativa. To understand the basis for this difference, we measured gas exchange and rubisco activation state between 20 and 42°C and modeled the response to determine the rate-limiting steps of photosynthesis. The temperature response of light respiration (R(light)) and the CO(2) compensation point in the absence of respiration (Γ(*)) were determined and found to be similar for the two species. C3 photosynthesis modeling showed that despite the difference in susceptibility to high temperature, both species had a similar temperature-dependent limitation to photosynthesis. Both rice species were limited by ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) regeneration at temperatures of 25 and 30°C but became RuBP carboxylation limited at 35 and 40°C. The activation state of rubisco in O. meridionalis was more stable at higher temperatures, explaining its greater heat tolerance compared with O. sativa.
22325434	Spanish gluten-free rice, cereals with gluten, and pureed baby foods were analysed for total (t-As) and inorganic As (i-As) using ICP-MS and HPLC-ICP-MS, respectively. Besides, pure infant rice from China, USA, UK and Spain were also analysed. The i-As contents were significantly higher in gluten-free rice than in cereals mixtures with gluten, placing infants with celiac disease at high risk. All rice-based products displayed a high i-As content, with values being above 60% of the t-As content and the remainder being dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). Approximately 77% of the pure infant rice samples showed contents below 150 μg kg(-1) (Chinese limit). When daily intake of i-As by infants (4-12 months) was estimated and expressed on a bodyweight basis (μg d(-1) kg(-1)), it was higher in all infants aged 8-12 months than drinking water maximum exposures predicted for adults (assuming 1 L consumption per day for a 10 μg L(-1) standard).
22325576	Roadkills are amongst the most significant biodiversity impacts, although little is known about the factors which influence the roadkill of neotropical birds. Hence, the objective was to evaluate differences in roadkill richness and rates for neotropical birds according to the seasons of the year and habitat types associated with roads. The data was collected along two federal highways, in southern Brazil. We identified 57 roadkilled species, for a mean roadkill rate of 0.06 ind./km/day (Min.=0.009; Max.=0.47). Our results demonstrate that richness and roadkill rates change according to seasonality and habitat types. Roadkills were concentrated in rice fields and wetlands, intensifying both in richness and rates during the summer and autumn. Nearby areas have similar roadkill rates, independent of habitat types. This probably occurs due to the movement of several species seeking food and shelter. Juvenile dispersion, harvest and grain transportation periods, as well as flight and foraging behaviors over road lanes seem to be related to the increasing roadkill occurrences and richness regarding more abundant species. However, given the elevated number of occasionally roadkilled species (more than 70% with N<5), we believe that highway surface and traffic act as physical barriers which inhibit the movement of many species which either present occasional roadkills or none at all.
22325870	MADS-box transcription factors play pivotal roles in several aspects of plant growth and development. The Arabidopsis SHORT VEGETATIVE PHASE (SVP) protein mediates the integration of signals involved in the control of flowering time and flower development by interacting with MADS-box proteins. In the rice genome, three SVP-like genes (OsMADS22, OsMADS47, and OsMADS55) are present. To investigate the functional conservation of these SVP-like genes in rice and Arabidopsis, the phenotypes of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing OsMADS22 and OsMADS55 were analyzed. Overexpression of OsMADS22 and OsMADS55 led to abnormal floral morphologies including leaf-like sepals, whereas only OsMADS55 expression caused delayed flowering via downregulation of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1). Yeast two-hybrid assays revealed that OsMADS22 and OsMADS55 interacted with Arabidopsis AGL24 and AP1, but only OsMADS55 interacted with FLC. Overexpression of OsMADS55, but not OsMADS22, complemented the early flowering phenotype and ambient temperature-insensitive flowering phenotype seen in svp mutants, suggesting that OsMADS55 regulates flowering time associated with ambient temperature responses in Arabidopsis. Taken together, our data are consistent with functional conservation and diversification between Arabidopsis and rice SVP-like genes involved in controlling flowering time and flower development.
22325874	Plants respond to salt stress by initiating phosphorylation cascades in their cells. Many key phosphorylation events take place at membranes. Microsomal fractions from 400 mM salt-treated Arabidopsis suspension plants were isolated, followed by trypsin shaving, enrichment using Zirconium ion-charged or TiO(2) magnetic beads, and tandem mass spectrometry analyses for site mapping. A total of 27 phosphorylation sites from 20 Arabidopsis proteins including photosystem II reaction center protein H PsbH were identified. In addition to Arabidopsis, microsomal fractions from shoots of 200 mM salt-treated rice was carried out, followed by trypsin digestion using shaving or tube-gel, and enrichment using Zirconium ion-charged or TiO(2) magnetic beads. This yielded identification of 13 phosphorylation sites from 8 proteins including photosystem II reaction center protein H PsbH. Label-free quantitative analysis suggests that the phosphorylation sites of PsbH were regulated by salt stress in Arabidopsis and rice. Sequence alignment of PsbH phosphorylation sites indicates that Thr-2 and Thr-4 are evolutionarily conserved in plants. Four conserved phosphorylation motifs were predicted, and these suggest that a specific unknown kinase or phosphatase is involved in high-salt stress responses in plants.
22325886	Effects of transgenic expression of dual positional maize lipoxygenase-1 on the defense system were analyzed in rice. The activities of hydroperoxidelyase and antioxidative enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, peroxidase) were increased and high levels of aldehydes including malondialdehyde were produced. The constitutive level of jasmonic was slightly increased and the constitutive salicylic acid level was decreased. Kinetic analysis of wound response indicated that the levels of jasmonic acid and salicylic acid are inversely correlated in nully transgenic rice plants, suggesting that there is an antagonistic interaction between jasmonic acid and salicylic acid. Microarray analysis indicated that several defense-related genes encoding antioxidative enzymes and pathogen-related proteins were up-regulated, and the resistance to rice blast fungus was enhanced in transgenic rice. Taken together, our results suggest that maize lipoxygenase-1 expressed in the cytoplasm plays an important role for the regulation of defense system including the antioxidative enzymes in transgenic rice, and that these effects may be mediated by reactive oxygen species generated through the enzyme-initiated catalytic peroxidation mechanism of maize lipoxygenase-1.
22325889	Cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.), especially the large-spikelet-type, often fail to achieve the high yield potential due to poor grain-filling of their inferior (late-flowering) spikelets. The superior (early-flowering) spikelets normally contain more abscisic acid (ABA) than the inferior spikelets. It was speculated that ABA might play a pivotal role in the grain-filling of inferior spikelets. To understand the molecular regulation involved in this process, we employed the 2-D gel-based comparative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses to search for differentially expressed proteins in the inferior spikelets under exogenous ABA treatment. A total of 111 significantly differential proteins and 31 phosphoproteins were found in the inferior spikelets after treatment. Among them, 100 proteins and 23 phosphoproteins were identified by using MALDI-TOF/TOF MS. In addition, the gene expression patterns of the inferior spikelets were confirmed with RT-PCR. These differentially expressed proteins are active in defense response, carbohydrate, protein, amino acid, energy and secondary metabolisms, as well as cell development and photosynthesis. The results suggest that the grain-filling of rice inferior spikelets is regulated by ABA through some proteins and phosphoproteins participating in carbon, nitrogen and energy metabolisms.
22326276	Rice tungro disease, caused by simultaneous infection of Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV), is an important cause of reduced rice harvests in South and Southeast Asia. Although various biological, serological and molecular techniques have been reported previously for the detection of RTBV and RTSV, a method that determines accurately the exact viral load in a tungro affected plant is still not available. The present study describes a method for the absolute quantitation of RTBV and RTSV using SYBR Green I based real-time PCR. The number of copies of RTBV DNA and RTSV RNA present in a tungro affected rice plant at two different time points after inoculation was determined. The sensitivity of real-time PCR based detection was found 10(3)- and 10(5)-folds higher than dot-blot hybridization and standard PCR assays respectively. In addition, the method was used for the simultaneous detection of RTBV and RTSV in a single reaction on the basis of melt curve analysis.
22326336	2-Keto-gluconic acid (2KGA) was produced in a semi-continuous process using Pseudomonas fluorescens AR4 and rice starch hydrolysate (RSH). The bacterium was cultured in medium with an initial glucose concentration of 170g/L supplied as RSH. Once the glucose level had dropped to 20g/L, 60% of the culture volume was replaced with fresh medium containing 190g/L of glucose in the form of RSH. After an additional two cycles of growth and media replacement, a total of 476.88g/L of glucose was consumed and 444.96g/L of 2KGA was produced. A total productivity of 6.74g/L and a yield of 0.93g/g were obtained. These findings suggest that P. fluorescens AR4 is suitable for the production of commercially acceptable levels of 2KGA in semi-continuous culture.
22326529	The event of bamboo flowering and subsequent death of bamboo cells, a rare phenomenon is an interesting model to study gene expression/function in the context of the programmed cell death (PCD) in plant. To identify genes involved in autolytic cell death in bamboo (Bambusa arundinacea/Bambusa bambos Voss), a suppressive subtractive cDNA hybridization (SSH) was performed between cDNA isolated from control (healthy), as driver and test internodal tissue (45days after setting of seeds), as tester. In-silico data revealed that 82% of total ESTs (231) were non-significant (unidentified proteins) while remaining ESTs were classified as protein with known/predicted function/s. Among these, net distribution and differential expression patterns of 11 important B. arundinacea PCD specific ESTs were studied using RNA slot-blot, qRT-PCR and semi-quantitative RT. In-situ localization of mRNA-transcripts for selected bamboo PCD-specific ESTs namely V2Ba48 (Aldehyde dehydrogenase 2) and V2Ba19 (Glycogen phosphorylase) were detected using digoxigenin-labeled corresponding anti-sense RNA probes employing Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope (CLSM). Differential expression-kinetics of the aforementioned genes were confirmed during the progress of PCD after setting of seeds. Global appearance of V2Ba48, V2Ba19, V2Ba95 (Ubiquitin thioesterase) and V2Ba89 (Nebulin isoform 2) genes were identified in monocot (Oryza sativa) and dicots (Arabidopsis thaliana and Nicotiana tabacum). This is the first report on systematic analysis of genes involved in death of bamboo cells that may provide critical information regarding key metabolic/regulatory genes involved in plant PCD.
22326762	In this study, we cloned full-length EcR cDNAs from the small brown planthopper Laodelphgax striatellus, the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens and the white back planthopper Sogatella furciferas. This is the first reporting of EcRs from either L. striatellus or S. furciferas. The deduced amino acid sequences of the EcRs show high levels of similarity to each other. The highest transcriptional level of the EcR gene was detected in the mid-fifth instar nymphs of N. lugens. Silencing of EcR expression by in vivo RNAi generated phenotypic defects in molting and resulted in lethality in most of the treated nymphs. Intriguingly, apparent wing defects in morphogenesis and melanization occurred during EcR knockdown in L. striatellus nymphs.
22326882	We investigated dietary intake patterns (DIP) in adolescents (14-18 year-olds) and the association with demographic and socioeconomic characteristics and lifestyle variables. This school-based survey was carried out among high school students from the city of Maringá in the state of Paraná (PR), Brazil (2007). The sample included 991 students (54.5% girls) from high schools. DIPs were investigated by the frequency of weekly consumption of each food group: vegetables, fruit, rice, beans, fried food, sweet food, milk, soda, meat, eggs, alcoholic drinks. Independent variables were: demographic and socioeconomic characteristics and lifestyle variables. DIPs were identified using principal component analysis with orthogonal rotation (varimax). Three components were extracted. Component 1 (fried foods, sweets and soft drinks) was positively associated with not having breakfast for girls and dinner for boys. Moreover, component 2 (consumption of fruit and vegetables) was positively associated with having breakfast at home for boys and number of meals for girls. Component 3 (beans, eggs and meat) was positively associated with having lunch, employment and sedentary behavior level for girls. However, it was negatively associated with having lunch and dinner for boys. Adolescents who have healthier eating patterns also had other healthier behaviors regardless of gender. However, factors associated with dietary patterns differ between boys and girls.
22326950	We investigated the chemopreventive effect of p-methoxycinnamic acid (p-MCA), an active phenolic acid of rice bran, turmeric, and Kaemperfia galanga against 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced rat colon carcinogenesis. Male albino Wistar rats were randomly divided into six groups. Group 1 consisted of control rats that received a modified pellet diet and 0.1% carboxymethyl cellulose. The rats in Group 2 received a modified pellet diet supplemented with p-MCA [80 mg/kg body weight (b.wt.) post-orally (p.o.)] everyday. The rats in Groups 3-6 received 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) (20 mg/kg b.wt.) via subcutaneous injections once a week for the first 4 weeks; additionally, the rats in Groups 4, 5 and 6 received p-MCA at doses of 20, 40 and 80 mg/kg b.wt./day p.o., respectively, everyday for 16 weeks. The rats were sacrificed at the end of the experimental period of 16 weeks. The DMH-treated rats exhibited an increased incidence of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) development; an increased crypt multiplicity; decreased concentrations of tissue lipid peroxidation markers such as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes (CD) and lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH); decreased levels of tissue enzymic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR); and decreased levels of non-enzymic antioxidants such as reduced glutathione (GSH) and vitamins C, E and A in the colon. Supplementation with p-MCA significantly reversed these changes and significantly inhibited the formation of ACF and its multiplicity. Thus, our findings demonstrate that p-MCA exerts a strong chemopreventive activity against 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced colon carcinogenesis by virtue of its ability to prevent the alterations in DMH-induced circulatory and tissue oxidative stress and preneoplastic changes. p-MCA was more effective when administered at a dose of 40 mg/kg b.wt. than at the other two doses tested.
22327484	We have developed a high-frequency method for Agrobacterium-mediated gene targeting by combining an efficient transformation system using rice suspension-cultured calli and a positive/negative selection system. Compared with the conventional transformation system using calli on solid medium, transformation using suspension-cultured calli resulted in a 5- to 10-fold increase in the number of resistant calli per weight of starting material after positive/negative selection. Homologous recombination occurred in about 1.5% of the positive/negative selected calli. To evaluate the efficacy of our method, we show in this report that knockout rice plants containing either a disrupted Waxy (granule-bound starch synthase) or a disrupted Xyl (β1,2-xylosyltransferase) gene can be easily obtained by homologous recombination. Study of gene function using homologous recombination in higher plants can now be considered routine work as a direct result of this technical advance.
22328119	Brown rice after germinating for 24 and 48 h was milled into flour and incorporated in whole wheat flour at a level of 10% to prepare chapattis. The objective was to use chapatti as a delivery vehicle for germinated brown rice. The flour blends and chapattis made from the flour blends were evaluated for their antioxidant properties. Incorporating germinated brown rice flour increased the total phenolic content of the flour blend from 1897 to 2144 µg FAE/g. The total flavonoids content increased significantly from 632.3 to1770.9 µg CAE/g and metal chelating activity significantly increased by 71.62%. Antioxidant activity increased significantly by the addition of brown rice flour and addition of 24- and 48-h germinated brown rice flour further increased the antioxidant activity significantly. The total phenolic content and total flavonoids content decrease significantly in all the blends after baking the flour into chapatti. A decrease of 3% to 29% was observed in the total phenolic content and a decrease of 25% to 42% was observed in the total flavonoids content. However, baking of the flour blends into chapatti increased the reducing power, metal chelating activity by three folds and antioxidant activity from 64% to 104%.
22328261	A mutant Cs3512, which showed better fermentation of xylose and the mixtures of xylose and glucose, was obtained through mutation of Candida shehatae ATCC 22984 and screening with a medium containing antimycin A and TTC (2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride). Cs3512 produced 44.4 g/l of ethanol from 121.3 g/l of xylose, which was 13% higher than that by ATCC 22984. At the same time, xylitol production was reduced by 38% to 10.2 g/l from 16.3 g/l by ATCC 22984. Cs3512 also showed 8% increase in ethanol yield from 0.39 to 0.42 g/g comparing to ATCC 22984 when fermenting the sugar mixture composed of 52.9 g/l glucose and 21.2 g/l xylose. When Cs3512 was used in the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of lime pretreated rice straw via CaCCO (calcium capturing by carbonation) process, it produced ethanol at 77% of the theoretical yield. The results imply that Cs3512 is a potential non-recombinant yeast strain for ethanol production from lignocellulosic biomass.
22328769	Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is an endophyte which plays important roles in agricultural production as a plant growth-promoting bacterium. Here, we present the draft genome sequence of strain RR-10, which was isolated from a rice root in a rice field of China.
22328922	The purpose of the study is to elucidate the sequence composition of the short arm of rye chromosome 1 (Secale cereale) with special focus on its gene content, because this portion of the rye genome is an integrated part of several hundreds of bread wheat varieties worldwide. Multiple Displacement Amplification of 1RS DNA, obtained from flow sorted 1RS chromosomes, using 1RS ditelosomic wheat-rye addition line, and subsequent Roche 454FLX sequencing of this DNA yielded 195,313,589 bp sequence information. This quantity of sequence information resulted in 0.43× sequence coverage of the 1RS chromosome arm, permitting the identification of genes with estimated probability of 95%. A detailed analysis revealed that more than 5% of the 1RS sequence consisted of gene space, identifying at least 3,121 gene loci representing 1,882 different gene functions. Repetitive elements comprised about 72% of the 1RS sequence, Gypsy/Sabrina (13.3%) being the most abundant. More than four thousand simple sequence repeat (SSR) sites mostly located in gene related sequence reads were identified for possible marker development. The existence of chloroplast insertions in 1RS has been verified by identifying chimeric chloroplast-genomic sequence reads. Synteny analysis of 1RS to the full genomes of Oryza sativa and Brachypodium distachyon revealed that about half of the genes of 1RS correspond to the distal end of the short arm of rice chromosome 5 and the proximal region of the long arm of Brachypodium distachyon chromosome 2. Comparison of the gene content of 1RS to 1HS barley chromosome arm revealed high conservation of genes related to chromosome 5 of rice. The present study revealed the gene content and potential gene functions on this chromosome arm and demonstrated numerous sequence elements like SSRs and gene-related sequences, which can be utilised for future research as well as in breeding of wheat and rye.
22329150	Nitrate leaching contaminates groundwater. The objective of this study was to determine if reed and rice stalks could enhance denitrification and reduce nitrate leaching into groundwater. Artificial groundwater spiked with nitrate and field groundwater samples were tested in the columns in sand reactors packed with either reed or rice stalks. The maximum nitrate removal rates were determined to be 1.93 and 1.97 mg nitrate-N l(-1) h(-1), respectively, in the reed and rice stalk-packed columns. The maximum nitrate-nitrogen removal rate in reactors packed with reed stalk was 1.33 mg nitrate-N l(-1) h(-1) when experimented with natural groundwater. Chemical oxygen demand consumption was higher when rice stalk (176.1 mg l(-1)) was used as the substrate, compared to reed stalk (35.2 mg l(-1)) at the same substrate dosage. No nitrite accumulation was detected during the test. The results demonstrate that agricultural byproducts, such as reed and rice stalks, may be used as substrate amendments for enhanced denitrification in natural settings, such as lakeside lagoons, ditches or wetlands.
22329153	Contaminated sediments provide the main source of mercury for methylation by bacteria in lakes and waterways. In situ capping has been used to remediate these sediments, but traditional reactive materials have very low affinity for Hg(II). This study investigated the mercury uptake by biogenic silica modified with L-cysteine, as a potential material to be used for in situ remediation technologies. The adsorbent was obtained from rice hull ash by extraction as sodium silicate and acid hydrolysis through the sol-gel process; it was then modified with L-cysteine by impregnation from aqueous solution. The unmodified and modified biogenic silica showed structural and chemical properties suitable for mercury sorption from aqueous medium. The cysteine affected the structural properties of the unmodified silica, decreasing the specific surface area and pore volume by eightfold. On the other hand, cysteine increased the silica adsorption capacity, resulting in mercury uptake similar to that of the unmodified silica. The Hg(ll) specific adsorption by unmodified and modified silica was 0.20 mmol/g and 0.19 mmol/g SiO2, respectively, from an aqueous solution of 1 mmol/L Hg(II). The pH range of 3-7did not have an effect on Hg(II) adsorption. However, the presence of chlorine, added as HgCl2, seems to have limited the mercury adsorption, especially at high concentrations of Hg(II). The mercury adsorbed on the silica surface could not be recovered using HCl even from concentrated solutions.
22329270	Culex tritaeniorhynchus, Cx. gelidus, and Cx. quinquefasciatus, known vectors of Japanese encephalitis (JE), are distributed in rice agroecosystems in Asian countries. Very few integrated studies on the breeding habitats of rice-field mosquitoes, including JE vectors, have been conducted in Vietnam. We investigated the mosquito fauna and potential predators in 8 rice growing areas in the Mekong Delta region of southern Vietnam, during the wet and dry seasons of 2009. Mosquitoes and their predators were collected from a variety of aquatic habitats (rice fields, ponds, wetlands, shrimp ponds, ditches, canals, and rivers). We collected 936 Culex spp. (354 Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, 240 Cx. vishnui s.l., 189 Cx. fuscocephala, and 42 Cx. gelidus), 33 Uranotaenia, 25 Anopheles, and 9 Mimomyia (4 Mi. chamberlaini) in the dry season. During the rainy season, we collected 1,232 Culex spp. (132 Cx. vishnui s.l., 66 Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, 9 Cx. gelidus, 4 Cx. fuscocephala, and 2 Cx. bitaeniorhynchus), 236 Anopheles spp. (40 An. vagus and 1 An. sinensis), and 7 Uranotaenia (3 Ur. lateralis). Heteroptera such as Micronecta, Veliidae, and Pleidae were abundant and widely distributed in both seasons. Based on a stepwise generalized linear model, the abundance of mosquitoes and their predators in rice fields was high when the rice plant length was short and water depth was shallow. Therefore, the use of insecticides during the earlier stages of rice growth should be avoided in order to preserve the predator populations.
22329275	We assessed the efficacy of ultra-low volume aerial adulticiding with 2 new water-based, unsynergized formulations of Aqua-K-Othrin (2% deltamethrin) and Pesguard S102 (10% d-phenothrin) against the riceland mosquitoes of Greece. A helicopter with Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation, real-time weather recording, and spray dispersal modeling (AgDISP) was utilized to accurately treat the experimental blocks by adjusting spray line positions to changing meteorological conditions. Two application rates were applied per formulation that corresponded to 0.75 and 1.00 g AI/ha of deltamethrin and 7.50 and 10.00 g AI/ha of d-phenothrin. The mosquitoes used for the trials were the main nuisance species found in rice field areas of Thessaloniki, which were primarily Aedes caspius, followed by Culex modestus and Anopheles sacharovi. Overall mean mortality of caged mosquitoes was 69.2% and 64.8% for deltamethrin and d-phenothrin, respectively. Mean population decrease in wild mosquito populations within the treatment areas was 76.5% and 78% for deltamethrin and d-phenothrin, respectively. The AgDISP dispersal model, coupled with GPS navigation and real-time weather recording, enabled accurate placement of the spray cloud such that the majority of the treatment area received sufficiently high droplet densities to result in uniform caged-mosquito mortality across all sampling sites.
22329407	As an important agronomic trait, leaf rolling in rice (Oryza sativa L.) has attracted much attention from plant biologists and breeders. Moderate leaf rolling increases the amount of photosynthesis in cultivars and hence raises grain yield. Here, we describe the map-based cloning of the gene RL14, which was found to encode a 2OG-Fe (II) oxygenase of unknown function. rl14 mutant plants had incurved leaves because of the shrinkage of bulliform cells on the adaxial side. In addition, rl14 mutant plants displayed smaller stomatal complexes and decreased transpiration rates, as compared with the wild type. Defective development could be rescued functionally by the expression of wild-type RL14. RL14 was transcribed in sclerenchymatous cells in leaves that remained wrapped inside the sheath. In mature leaves, RL14 accumulated mainly in the mesophyll cells that surround the vasculature. Expression of genes related to secondary cell wall formation was affected in rl14-1 mutants, and cellulose and lignin content were altered in rl14-1 leaves. These results reveal that the RL14 gene affects water transport in leaves by affecting the composition of the secondary cell wall. This change in water transport results in water deficiency, which is the major reason for the abnormal shape of the bulliform cells.
22330327	To elucidate whether rice protein can possess a vital function in improving lipids level and adiposity, the effects of rice proteins extracted by alkaline (RP-A) and α-amylase (RP-E) on triglyceride metabolism were investigated in 7-week-old male Wistar rats fed cholesterol-enriched diets for 2 weeks, as compared with casein (CAS). Compared with CAS, plasma concentrations of glucose and lipids were significantly reduced by RP-feeding (P < 0.05), as well as hepatic accumulation of lipids (P < 0.05). RP-A and RP-E significantly depressed the hepatic activities of fatty acid synthase (FAS), glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) (P < 0.05), whereas the activities of lipoprotein lipase (PL) and hepatic lipase (HL) were significantly stimulated (P < 0.05), as compared to CAS. Neither lipids level nor activities of enzymes were different between RP-A and RP-E (P > 0.05). There was a significant positive correlation between protein digestibility and deposit fat (r = 0.8567, P < 0.05), as well as the plasma TG concentration (r = 0.8627, P < 0.05). The present study demonstrates that rice protein can modify triglyceride metabolism, leading to an improvement of body weight and adiposity. Results suggest that the triglyceride-lowering action as well as the potential of anti-adiposity induced by rice protein is attributed to upregulation of lipolysis and downregulation of lipogenesis, and the lower digestibility of rice protein may be the main modulator responsible for the lipid-lowering action.
22330359	In J. Opt. Soc. Am. A27, 797 (2010), Yura and Hanson derived what they claim to be "a general expression for the mean level crossing rate for an arbitrary" random process following any desired probability distribution function. On the other hand, the authors themselves assert that in some cases their results "differ somewhat from the result reported in the literature." This discrepancy "remains unexplained" by the authors "and is laid open for future discussion." In this note, we explain the reason for such discrepancy and show that the Yura-Hanson formula is indeed a special-case solution. A more general solution is then given that is applicable to arbitrary random processes and that is fully consistent with the Rice mean level crossing rate formula.
22332708	The palea and lemma are unique organs in grass plants that form a protective barrier around the floral organs and developing kernel. The interlocking of the palea and lemma is critical for maintaining fertility and seed yield in rice; however, the molecules that control the interlocking structure remain largely unknown. Here, we showed that when OsCR4 mRNA expression was knocked down in rice by RNA interference, the palea and lemma separated at later spikelet stages and gradually turned brown after heading, resulting in the severe interruption of pistil pollination and damage to the development of embryo and endosperm, with defects in aleurone. The irregular architecture of the palea and lemma was caused by tumour-like cell growth in the outer epidermis and wart-like cell masses in the inner epidermis. These abnormal cells showed discontinuous cuticles and uneven cell walls, leading to organ self-fusion that distorted the interlocking structures. Additionally, the faster leakage of chlorophyll, reduced silica content and elevated accumulation of anthocyanin in the palea and lemma indicated a lesion in the protective barrier, which also impaired seed quality. OsCR4 is an active receptor-like kinase associated with the membrane fraction. An analysis of promoter::GUS reporter plants showed that OsCR4 is specifically expressed in the epidermal cells of paleas and lemmas. Together, these results suggest that OsCR4 plays an essential role in maintaining the interlocking of the palea and lemma by promoting epidermal cell differentiation.
22332867	Heat denaturation of recombinant human lactoferrin (rhLf) from rice with 3 different iron-saturation degrees, holo rhLf (iron-saturated), AsIs rhLf (60% iron saturation), and apo rhLf (iron-depleted), was studied. The 3 forms of rhLf were subjected to heat treatment, and the kinetic and thermodynamic parameters of the denaturation process were determined. Thermal denaturation of rhLf was assessed by measuring the loss of reactivity against specific antibodies. D(t) values (time to reduce 90% of immunoreactivity) decreased with increasing temperature of treatment for apo and holo rhLf, those values being higher for the iron-saturated form, which indicates that iron confers thermal stability to rhLf. However, AsIs rhLf showed a different behaviour with an increase in resistance to heat between 79 °C and 84 °C, so that the kinetic parameters could not be calculated. The heat denaturation process for apo and holo rhLf was best described assuming a reaction order of 1.5. The activation energy of the denaturation process was 648.20 kJ/mol for holo rhLf and 406.94 kJ/mol for apo rhLf, confirming that iron-depleted rhLf is more sensitive to heat treatment than iron-saturated rhLf.
22333298	The availability of low cost sequencing has spurred its application to discovery and typing of variation, including variation induced by mutagenesis. Mutation discovery is challenging as it requires a substantial amount of sequencing and analysis to detect very rare changes and distinguish them from noise. Also challenging are the cases when the organism of interest has not been sequenced or is highly divergent from the reference. We describe the development of a simple method for reduced representation sequencing. Input DNA was digested with a single restriction enzyme and ligated to Y adapters modified to contain a sequence barcode and to provide a compatible overhang for ligation. We demonstrated the efficiency of this method at SNP discovery using rice and arabidopsis. To test its suitability for the discovery of very rare SNP, one control and three mutagenized rice individuals (1, 5 and 10 mM sodium azide) were used to prepare genomic libraries for Illumina sequencers by ligating barcoded adapters to NlaIII restriction sites. For genome-dependent discovery 15-30 million of 80 base reads per individual were aligned to the reference sequence achieving individual sequencing coverage from 7 to 15×. We identified high-confidence base changes by comparing sequences across individuals and identified instances consistent with mutations, i.e. changes that were found in a single treated individual and were solely GC to AT transitions. For genome-independent discovery 70-mers were extracted from the sequence of the control individual and single-copy sequence was identified by comparing the 70-mers across samples to evaluate copy number and variation. This de novo "genome" was used to align the reads and identify mutations as above. Covering approximately 1/5 of the 380 Mb genome of rice we detected mutation densities ranging from 0.6 to 4 per Mb of diploid DNA depending on the mutagenic treatment. The combination of a simple and cost-effective library construction method, with Illumina sequencing, and the use of a bioinformatic pipeline allows practical SNP discovery regardless of whether a genomic reference is available.
22334594	Many fungal and oomycete pathogens differentiate a feeding structure named the haustorium to extract nutrition from the plant epidermal cell. The atypical resistance (R) protein RPW8.2 activates salicylic acid (SA)-dependent, haustorium-targeted defenses against Golovinomyces spp., the causal agents of powdery mildew diseases on multiple plant species. How RPW8.2 activates defense remains uncharacterized. Here, we report that RPW8.2 interacts with the phytochrome-associated protein phosphatase type 2C (PAPP2C) in yeast and in planta as evidenced by co-immunoprecipitation and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. Down-regulation of PAPP2C by RNA interference (RNAi) in Col-0 plants lacking RPW8.2 leads to leaf spontaneous cell death and enhanced disease resistance to powdery mildew via the SA-dependent signaling pathway. Moreover, down-regulation of PAPP2C by RNAi in the RPW8.2 background results in strong HR-like cell death, which correlates with elevated RPW8.2 expression. We further demonstrate that hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged PAPP2C prepared from tobacco leaf cells transiently transformed with HA-PAPP2C possesses phosphatase activity. In addition, silencing a rice gene (Os04g0452000) homologous to PAPP2C also results in spontaneous cell death in rice. Combined, our results suggest that RPW8.2 is functionally connected with PAPP2C and that PAPP2C negatively regulates SA-dependent basal defense against powdery mildew in Arabidopsis.
22334645	Many plants monitor day-length changes throughout the year and use the information to precisely regulate the timing of seasonal flowering for maximum reproductive success. In Arabidopsis thaliana, transcriptional regulation of the CONSTANS (CO) gene and posttranslational regulation of CO protein are crucial mechanisms for proper day-length measurement in photoperiodic flowering. Currently, the CYCLING DOF FACTOR proteins are the only transcription factors known to directly regulate CO gene expression, and the mechanisms that directly activate CO transcription have remained unknown. Here we report the identification of four CO transcriptional activators, named FLOWERING BHLH 1 (FBH1), FBH2, FBH3, and FBH4. All FBH proteins are related basic helix-loop-helix-type transcription factors that preferentially bind to the E-box cis-elements in the CO promoter. Overexpression of all FBH genes drastically elevated CO levels and caused early flowering regardless of photoperiod, whereas CO levels were reduced in the fbh quadruple mutants. In addition, FBH1 is expressed in the vascular tissue and bound near the transcription start site of the CO promoter in vivo. Furthermore, FBH homologs in poplar and rice induced CO expression in Arabidopsis. These results indicate that FBH proteins positively regulate CO transcription for photoperiodic flowering and that this mechanism may be conserved in diverse plant species. Our results suggest that the diurnal CO expression pattern is generated by a concert of redundant functions of positive and negative transcriptional regulators.
22335821	A buprofezin-degrading bacterium, YL-1, was isolated from rice field soil. YL-1 was identified as Rhodococcus sp. on the basis of the comparative analysis of 16S rDNA sequences. The strain could use buprofezin as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen for growth and was able to degrade 92.4% of 50 mg L(-1) buprofezin within 48 h in liquid culture. During the degradation of buprofezin, four possible metabolites, 2-tert-butylimino-3-isopropyl-1,3,5-thiadiazinan-4-one, N-tert-butyl-thioformimidic acid formylaminomethyl ester, 2-isothiocyanato-2-methyl-propane, and 2-isothiocyanato-propane, were identified using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. The catechol 2,3-dioxygenase activity was strongly induced during the degradation of buprofezin. A novel microbial biodegradation pathway for buprofezin was proposed on the basis of these metabolites. The inoculation of soils treated with buprofezin with strain YL-1 resulted in a higher degradation rate than that observed in noninoculated soils, indicating that strain YL-1 has the potential to be used in the bioremediation of buprofezin-contaminated environments.
22336149	Rice can be a major source of inorganic arsenic (Asi) for many sub-populations. Rice products are also used as ingredients in prepared foods, some of which may not be obviously rice based. Organic brown rice syrup (OBRS) is used as a sweetener in organic food products as an alternative to high-fructose corn syrup. We hypothesized that OBRS introduces As into these products. We determined the concentration and speciation of As in commercially available brown rice syrups and in products containing OBRS, including toddler formula, cereal/energy bars, and high-energy foods used by endurance athletes. We used inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and ion chromatography coupled to ICP-MS to determine total As (Astotal) concentrations and As speciation in products purchased via the Internet or in stores in the Hanover, New Hampshire, area. We found that OBRS can contain high concentrations of Asi and dimethyl-arsenate (DMA). An "organic" toddler milk formula containing OBRS as the primary ingredient had Astotal concentrations up to six times the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency safe drinking water limit. Cereal bars and high-energy foods containing OBRS also had higher As concentrations than equivalent products that did not contain OBRS. Asi was the main As species in most food products tested in this study. There are currently no U.S. regulations applicable to As in food, but our findings suggest that the OBRS products we evaluated may introduce significant concentrations of Asi into an individual's diet. Thus, we conclude that there is an urgent need for regulatory limits on As in food.
2233681	The plasmid pE10 is a pBR322-derived plasmid carrying a 4.5 kb rice (Oryza sativa L.) repeated DNA sequence. The cloned sequence has been shown to be amplified in cultured rice cells. The analysis of practically intact chromosomal rice DNA molecules by pulsed field gel electrophoresis has now shown that the amplification is associated with the appearance of extrachromosomal molecules. In fact, pE10 hybridizes exclusively with unfractionated DNA from leaf protoplasts, while it recognizes predominantly an extrachromosomal DNA molecule (ECD) of about 45 kb and its multiples in the case of protoplasts from cultured cells. Insensitivity to the action of the exonuclease Bal31 suggests that the molecule is circular. Analysis of restriction endonuclease products with both standard horizontal and pulsed field gel electrophoresis suggest that the extrachromosomal DNA, and its chromosomal counterpart, is composed of tandemly repeated units of about 7 kb. Thus, the smaller extrachromosomal circle should contain 6-7 repeats, while the sequence cloned in pE10 is a subset of this repeat. The extrachromosomal DNA represents about 1% of total rice DNA and its level of amplification is not affected by the different phases of growth in culture.
22338548	Gamma-oryzanol (gamma-OR) is a unique mixture of triterpene alcohol and sterol ferulates present in rice bran oil. Hypocholesterolemic activity of gamma-OR has been reported in various animal and human studies. However, the mechanisms for this hypocholesterolemic activity of gamma-OR remain unclear. Therefore, the aim of this in vitro study was to examine the effect of gamma-OR on the bioaccessibility and synthesis of cholesterol. The effects of gamma-OR on the efficiency of incorporation of cholesterol into mixed micelles during digestion and apical uptake of cholesterol by Caco-2 human intestinal cells were determined using the coupled in vitro simulated digestion/Caco-2 human intestinal cell model. The impact of gamma-OR on the HMG-CoA reductase activity was also investigated. Although incorporation of cholesterol into synthetic micelles was significantly inhibited by 15-fold molar excess of gamma-OR, efficiency of micellarization of cholesterol during simulated digestion of the rice meal was not significantly altered by the presence of as high as 20-fold molar excess of gamma-OR. Nevertheless, 20-fold molar excess of gamma-OR significantly decreased apical uptake of cholesterol into Caco-2 intestinal cells. In addition, gamma-OR inhibited 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase activity. These findings suggest that the hypocholesterolemic activity of gamma-OR is due in part to impaired apical uptake of cholesterol into enterocytes and perhaps a decrease in HMG-CoA reductase activity.
22340075	Several lines of evidence suggest that there may be a shared vulnerability to acquire behaviors motivated by strong incentive stimuli. Non-food restricted male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 78) underwent place conditioning with Oreos, and were subsequently tested on cocaine self-administration (SA) on fixed and progressive ratios, as well as extinction and reinstatement by cocaine primes and by consumption of Oreos. Although there was a group preference for the Oreo-paired compartment, at the individual level some rats (69%) displayed a preference and others did not. In cocaine SA, 'preference' rats achieved higher break points on a progressive ratio, and displayed greater responding during extinction and cocaine-induced reinstatement. Within the context of this study, Oreo-cocaine cross-reinstatement was not observed. In a control study, rats (n = 29) conditioned with a less palatable food (rice cakes) also displayed individual differences in place preference, but not on subsequent cocaine tests. These findings indicate that there is a relationship between incentive learning promoted by palatable foods and by cocaine. This supports the hypothesis that co-morbid food-drug addictions may result from a shared vulnerability to acquire behaviors motivated by strong incentives.
22340849	Gene duplication and the subsequent divergence in function of the resulting paralogs via subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization is hypothesized to have played a major role in the evolution of plant form. The LEAFY HULL STERILE1 (LHS1) SEPALLATA (SEP) genes have been linked with the origin and diversification of the grass spikelet, but it is uncertain 1) when the duplication event that produced the LHS1 clade and its paralogous lineage Oryza sativa MADS5 (OSM5) occurred, and 2) how changes in gene structure and/or expression might have contributed to subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization in the two lineages. Phylogenetic relationships among 84 SEP genes were estimated using Bayesian methods. RNA expression patterns were inferred using in situ hybridization. The patterns of protein sequence and RNA expression evolution were reconstructed using maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses mapped the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event to the base of the grass family. MP character reconstructions estimated a change from cytosine to thymine in the first codon position of the first amino acid after the Zea mays MADS3 (ZMM3) domain converted a glutamine to a stop codon in the OSM5 ancestor following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event. RNA expression analyses of OSM5 co-orthologs in Avena sativa, Chasmanthium latifolium, Hordeum vulgare, Pennisetum glaucum, and Sorghum bicolor followed by ML reconstructions of these data and previously published analyses estimated a complex pattern of gain and loss of LHS1 and OSM5 expression in different floral organs and different flowers within the spikelet or inflorescence. Previous authors have reported that rice OSM5 and LHS1 proteins have different interaction partners indicating that the truncation of OSM5 following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event has resulted in both partitioned and potentially novel gene functions. The complex pattern of OSM5 and LHS1 expression evolution is not consistent with a simple subfunctionalization model following the gene duplication event, but there is evidence of recent partitioning of OSM5 and LHS1 expression within different floral organs of A. sativa, C. latifolium, P. glaucum and S. bicolor, and between the upper and lower florets of the two-flowered maize spikelet.
22340872	To investigate the dietary pattern in college freshmen students and to analyze the influencing factors on their dietary patterns. A questionnaire survey on situation of dietary pattern and influencing factors was conducted among 1319 freshmen students. Four major dietary patterns were noticed and they were: I, high consumption in hamburger, fried food, nuts, biscuit, chocolate, cola, coffee, sugars, II, high consumption in pork, mutton, beef, poultry meat, animal liver, III, high consumption in fresh fruits, eggs, fish and shrimps, kelp laver and sea fish, milk and dairy products, beans and bean products, IV, high consumption in rice and grain, fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, pork. Risk factors on dietary pattern were presented as follows: (1) boys:having the food pattern I and II showed a strong positive association with the place where they live (OR = 1.67, 95%CI: 0.87 - 3.19; OR = 1.51, 95%CI: 0.79 - 2.88), eating place (OR = 1.63, 95%CI: 1.03 - 2.59;OR = 1.83, 95%CI: 1.04 - 3.23), level of mother's education (OR = 2.52, 95%CI: 1.07 - 5.95; OR = 3.38, 95%CI: 1.50 - 7.63), family income (OR = 2.24, 95%CI: 1.30 - 3.88; OR = 3.06, 95%CI: 1.77 - 5.29) and the status of passive smoking (OR = 1.80, 95%CI: 0.70 - 4.59; OR = 1.83, 95%CI: 0.75 - 4.45). Inverse correlations was found on the level of mother's education (OR = 0.56, 95%CI: 0.17 - 1.79). The food pattern IV showed a strong positive association with place of eating (OR = 1.83, 95%CI: 1.04 - 3.23) but having an inverse correlation with the level of mother's education (OR = 0.56, 95%CI: 0.17 - 1.79). (2) girls when compared with boys, the food pattern I showed minor association with the places of living and eating; while the food pattern II and III had minor association with the status of passive smoking. Socio-demographic factors and lifestyle had influenced on the dietary patterns among college freshmen students who should be guided to have a reasonable, balanced diet in the college.
22341401	While biophysical controls on the sequestration capacity of soils have been well addressed with physical protection, chemical binding and stabilization processes as well as microbial community changes, the role of chemical binding and stabilization has not yet well characterized for soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration in rice paddies. In this study, a 6-month laboratory incubation with and without maize straw amendment (MSA) was conducted using topsoil samples from soils with different clay mineralogy and free oxy-hydrate contents collected across Southern China. The increase in SOC under MSA was found coincident with that in Fe- and Al-bound OC (Fe/Al-OC) after incubation for 30 d (R(2)=0.90, P=0.05), and with sodium dithionate-citrate-bicarbonate (DCB) extractable Fe after incubation for 180 d (R(2)=0.99, P<0.01). The increase in SOC under MSA was found higher in soils rich in DCB extractable Fe than those poor in DCB extractable Fe. The greater SOC sequestration in soils rich in DCB extractable Fe was further supported by the higher abundance of (13)C which was a natural signature of MSA. Moreover, a weak positive correlation of the increased SOC under MSA with the increased humin (R(2)=0.87, P=0.06) observed after incubation for 180 d may indicate a chemical stabilization of sequestered SOC as humin in the long run. These results improved our understanding of SOC sequestration in China's rice paddies that involves an initial chemical binding of amended C and a final stabilization as recalcitrant C of humin.
22341501	Os3BGlu6, Os3BGlu7, and Os4BGlu12 are rice glycoside hydrolase family 1 β-glucosidases, the structures of which have been solved by X-ray crystallography. In complex structures, Os3BGlu7 residue Asn245 hydrogen bonds to the second sugar in the +1 subsite for laminaribiose and the third sugar in the +2 subsite for cellotetraose and cellopentaose. The corresponding Os3BGlu6 residue, Met251, appears to block the binding of cellooligosaccharides at the +2 subsite, whereas His252 in this position in Os4BGlu12 could hydrogen bond to oligosaccharides. Mutation of Os3BGlu6 Met251 to Asn resulted in a 15-fold increased k(cat)/K(m) value for hydrolysis of laminaribiose compared to wild type Os3BGlu6 and 9 to 24-fold increases for cellooligosaccharides with degrees of polymerization (DP) of 2-5. On the other hand, mutation of Os3BGlu7 Asn245 to Met decreased the k(cat)/K(m) of hydrolysis by 6.5-fold for laminaribiose and 17 to 30-fold for cellooligosaccharides with DP >2, while mutation of Os4BGlu12 His252 to Met decreased the corresponding k(cat)/K(m) values 2 to 6-fold.
22341915	Shaoxing rice wine is the most famous and representative Chinese rice wine. Aspergillus oryzae SU16 is used in the manufacture of koji, the Shaoxing rice wine starter culture. In the current study, a comprehensive analysis of the secretome profile of A. oryzae SU16 in Shaoxing rice wine koji was performed for the first time. The proteomic analysis for the identification of the secretory proteins was done using two-dimensional electrophoresis combined with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-tandem time of flight mass spectrometry based on the annotated A. oryzae genome sequence. A total of 41 unique proteins were identified from the secretome. These proteins included 17 extracellular proteins following the classical secretory pathway, and 10 extracellular proteins putatively secreted by the non-classical secretory pathway. The present secretome profile greatly differed from previous reports on A. oryzae growing in other solid-state nutrient sources. Several new secretory or putative secretory proteins were also found. These proteomic data will significantly aid the advancement of research on the secretome of A. oryzae, especially in solid-state cultures, and in elucidating the production process mechanism of Shaoxing rice wine koji. The findings may promote the technological development and innovation of the Shaoxing rice wine industry.
22341935	Cereal (rice, barley, emmer and oat) and soy flours and concentrated red grape must were used for making vegetable yogurt-like beverages (VYLB). Two selected strains of Lactobacillus plantarum were used for lactic acid fermentation, according to a process which included the flour gelatinization. All VLYB had values of pH lower than 4.0 and both selected starters remained viable at ca. 8.4 log cfu/g throughout storage. All VLYB showed high values of apparent viscosity and water holding capacity. During fermentation, lactic acid bacteria consumed glucose, fructose, and malic acid, which was supplied with grape must. Compared to control vegetable yogurt-like beverages (CVYLB), without bacterial inoculum, an increase of total free amino acids (FAA) was found during fermentation and storage. Also the concentration of polyphenolic compounds and ascorbic acid (ASC) was higher in VLYB compared to CVYLB. This was reflected on the antioxidant activity. As determined by Solid Phase Micro-Extraction/Gas-Chromatography/Mass-Spectrometry analysis, several volatile compounds were identified. Beverages made with the mixture of rice and barley or emmer flours seemed to possess the best combination textural, nutritional and sensory properties.
22342088	The assessment of maturity and biological parameters is important in the composting process. In this study, excitation-emission matrix (EEM) fluorescence spectroscopy was applied to evaluate the maturity and biological parameters of compost produced from the co-composting of dairy and rice chaff. The results from a Pearson correlation analysis between traditional physico-chemical maturity indices and fluorescence regional integration (FRI) parameters showed that among the FRI parameters, P(V,n)/P(III,n) and P(V,n) were suitable for the assessment of compost maturity. Moreover, the FRI parameters could be used to evaluate biological parameters including the germination index (GI) and ribotype evolution which indicate the bacterial community structure and dynamics. P(IV,n) was the most suitable indicator for revealing the community structure and dynamics during the composting process. Fluorescence spectroscopy combined with the FRI analysis could be used as a sensitive and efficient tool for assessing compost maturity and biological parameters.
22342582	This study evaluated the life cycle of bioethanol produced by enzymatic hydrolysis of rice straw. Net energy consumption, CO(2) emission and production costs were estimated to determine whether environmentally preferable and economically viable bioethanol can be produced from rice straws. Two varieties of rice straw (Koshihikari and Leafstar), three energy scenarios (F-E-RH: Fuel-Electricity-Residues used for Heat; F-E-RE: Fuel-Electricity-Residues used to generate Electricity; F-RE: Fuel-Residues used to generate Electricity) and three types of primary energy (heavy oil; LNG: liquefied natural gas; agri-residues) were considered. The net energy consumption, CO(2) emission and production costs were estimated to be 10.0-17.6MJ/L, -0.5 to 1.6kg/L and 84.9-144.3¥/L (1 US$≈100¥), respectively, depending on the feedstock and scenarios of this study. A shift in energy scenarios or in the type of primary energy (heavy oil to LNG or agri-residues) not only reduces emissions and production costs of bioethanol from rice straw, but may also reduce the fluctuation in production cost over time and risk on investment, which would encourage more investment in this sector.
22342698	Since the global cultivation of genetically modified crops constantly expands, it remains a high demand to establish different ways to sort food and feed that consist or contain genetically modified organisms. Surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) spectroscopy is a flexible tool for biological analysis due to its excellent properties for detecting wide varieties of target biomolecules including nucleic acids. In the present study, a SERS-barcoded nanosensor was developed to detect Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) gene-transformed rice expressing insecticidal proteins. The barcoded sensor was designed by encapsulation of gold nanoparticles with silica and conjugation of oligonucleotide strands for targeting DNA strands. The transition between the cry1A(b) and cry1A(c) fusion gene sequence was used to construct a specific SERS-based detection method with a detection limit of 0.1 pg/mL. In order to build the determination models to screen transgene, a series mixture of Bt rice and normal rice were prepared for SERS assay, and the limit of detection was 0.1% (w/w) transgenic Bt rice relative to normal rice. The sensitivity and accuracy of the SERS-based assay was comparable with real-time PCR. The SERS-barcoded analytical method would provide precise detection of transgenic rice varieties but also informative supplement to avoid false positive outcomes.
22343216	Micronutrient malnutrition is widespread, especially in poor populations across the globe where daily caloric intake is confined mainly to staple cereals. Rice, which is a staple food for over half of the world's population, is low in bioavailable micronutrients required for the daily diet. Improvements of the plant-based diets are therefore critical and of high economic value in order to achieve a healthy nutrition of a large segment of the human population. Rice grain biofortification has emerged as a strategic priority for alleviation of micronutrient malnutrition. Nutritional enhancement of crops through conventional breeding is often limited by the low genetic variability for required dietary micronutrient levels. In this case, biotechnology strategies offer effective and efficient perspectives. In this review, we discuss genetic engineering approaches that have been successful in the nutritional enhancement of rice endosperm. These advancements will make substantial contributions to crop improvement and human nutrition. Their practical application, however, also demands visionary changes in regulatory policies and a broader consumer acceptance.
22343523	A complete accounting of net greenhouse gas balance (NGHGB) and greenhouse gas intensity (GHGI) affected by Fe(III) fertilizer application was examined in typical annual paddy rice-winter wheat rotation cropping systems in southeast China. Annual fluxes of soil carbon dioxide (CO(2)), methane (CH(4)) and nitrous oxide (N(2)O) were measured using static chamber method, and the net ecosystem exchange of CO(2) (NEE) was determined by the difference between soil CO(2) emissions (R(H)) and net primary production (NPP). Fe(III) fertilizer application significantly decreased R(H) without adverse effects on NPP of rice and winter wheat. Fe(III) fertilizer application decreased seasonal CH(4) by 27-44%, but increased annual N(2)O by 65-100%. Overall, Fe(III) fertilizer application decreased the annual NGHGB and GHGI by 35-47% and 30-36%, respectively. High grain yield and low greenhouse gas intensity can be reconciled by Fe(III) fertilizer applied at the local recommendation rate in rice-based cropping systems.
22343698	Je Jung Won was the first modern-style Government hospital built by the Korean King Ko-Jong in April 1885, and it was the medical missionary Horace Newton Allen(1858~1932) who made one of the greatest contributions to the establishment of the hospital. Allen was an American missionary. He graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University with a degree in theology in 1881, and completed one-yearcourse at Miami Medical College. In Korea and America he worked as a physician, a missionary, an American diplomatic minister to Korea and a Korean minister's secretary to America. While acting as a mediator between Korea and America, he knew and recorded the domestic and foreign situation of Korea during Gaehwagi(the civilized and enlightened age). Thus to study him is to understand Korea's Gaehwagi as well as to research American medical missionaries. During his stay in Korea(1884~1905), Allen steadily wrote diaries and letters about Korean politics, diplomacy, society, culture, and medicine. Thus his public/private record through diaries and letters(the quantity of these materials amounts to several thousands) supplements the Korean early modern era's historical record. However, until now these materials have received little scholarly attention from researchers except for a few historians of missionary work between Korea and America, or of Korean modern medicine. I intended to use these materials to suggest a new perspective on the study of Korean Gaehwagi. Allen, along with John W. Heron, who came to Seoul on June 21st 1885, treated about 10,460 Korean patients in the first year of the opening of JeJungWon. They made "the first annual report of the Korean Government Hospital". This report explained how Allen and Heron regarded and treated Korean patients. Allen's diaries, letters and other writings offer a realistic view of how the western people actually recognized the Korean people at that time. As a western doctor, Allen had an ambivalent attitude toward Korean medical concepts and systems. On the one hand, he thought that medical idea, some food and drug of Korean is valuable. He said that the native Korea faculty had some good ideas with regards to treatment. And he held Korean rice, ginseng, and so on in high regard. However, he did not rate Korean acupuncture and Korean traditional ointment at all. In addition, he sometimes cured Korean patients dangerously and with imprudence. The amputation of patients' body, no matter how little, must ask the permission of the patients themselves. Especially, the sense of Korean filial duty couldn't accept amputation of body at those times. The artificial change of body meant to hurt parents' body, because at those times Korean people thought that my body was my parent's possession. But Allen did it without enough explanation or persuasion. Moreover he didn't feel guilty for the behavior at all. Besides, he seemed to be proud of it in the above mention. Such careless or unethical behavior cannot be excused. On the other hand, he had made mistakes in treatment according to his record. He pulled out some healthy teeth of patients who had a bad toothache. But he didn't explain nor apologize the mistake. Besides, he refused treatment of patients until the hospital would be opened in order to push Korean government to prepare hospital quickly. Why or how did he do that? The first answer available to the question, he might be so confident of his medical knowledge and skill that he didn't feel the need to ask the patients' thought and will. However, as stated above, his medical study was just one year. And he worried about his inexperience of surgery. Thus the first assumption seems to be false. He wasn't confident of his medical knowledge. The fact that nevertheless Allen treated Korean patients at his will, is still blamable. The second assumption is that he regarded western modern medicine as the only correct and proper approach. He didn't have many experiences, but his west modern medicine made him proud of its achievement. After middle 19th century of modern times, Micheal Foucault said at The Birth of Clinics, western modern medicine believed itself scientific on the ground that west modern medicine could have pathology and surgery. Allen might also trust the scientific ability of western modern medicine. So he might think that he didn't need to explain 'modern and scientific' medicine of West to people in 'premodern and non-scientific' medicine of Korea. The third answer is his 'Orientalism'. He thought that Koreans were dirty, lazy, and barbarous and, therefore, he made a clear distinction between Caucasian and Korean. He set his affection on 'Cho-Seon' and made efforts to cure Korean patients and establish the first western Government hospital in Korea. However he, as a westerner, could not free himself from 'Orientalism' and 'Imperialism'. Thus, he might ride so roughshod Korean patients. In fact the 'Orientalism' was not only Allen's thought. Many western visitors thought Korean as an 'Orient'. The West regarded themselves as civilized and the East as uncivilized or barbarous, therefore the West thought that the East should be modernized with the help of the West. This thought rationalized their imperialism and colonialism toward the East. In addition, he seemed to have some ambition in politics and diplomatics. He wanted to be a high-ranking official, so his goal of his life was political or economical power rather than medical missionary.
22345424	Despite its importance, relatively little is known about the relationship between the structure, function, and evolution of proteins, particularly in land plant species. We have developed a database with predicted protein domains for five plant proteomes (http://pfp.bio.nyu.edu) and used both protein structural fold recognition and de novo Rosetta-based protein structure prediction to predict protein structure for Arabidopsis and rice proteins. Based on sequence similarity, we have identified ~15,000 orthologous/paralogous protein family clusters among these species and used codon-based models to predict positive selection in protein evolution within 175 of these sequence clusters. Our results show that codons that display positive selection appear to be less frequent in helical and strand regions and are overrepresented in amino acid residues that are associated with a change in protein secondary structure. Like in other organisms, disordered protein regions also appear to have more selected sites. Structural information provides new functional insights into specific plant proteins and allows us to map positively selected amino acid sites onto protein structures and view these sites in a structural and functional context.
22345559	The transcription factor WUSCHEL (WUS) acts from a well-defined domain within the Arabidopsis thaliana shoot apical meristem (SAM) to maintain a stem cell niche. A negative-feedback loop involving the CLAVATA (CLV) signaling pathway regulates the number of WUS-expressing cells and provides the current paradigm for the homeostatic maintenance of stem cell numbers. Despite the continual turnover of cells in the SAM during development, the WUS domain remains patterned at a fixed distance below the shoot apex. Recent work has uncovered a positive-feedback loop between WUS function and the plant hormone cytokinin. Furthermore, loss of function of the cytokinin biosynthetic gene, LONELY GUY (LOG), results in a wus-like phenotype in rice. Herein, we find the Arabidopsis LOG4 gene is expressed in the SAM epidermis. We use this to develop a computational model representing a growing SAM to suggest the plausibility that apically derived cytokinin and CLV signaling, together, act as positional cues for patterning the WUS domain within the stem cell niche. Furthermore, model simulations backed by experimental data suggest a previously unknown negative feedback between WUS function and cytokinin biosynthesis in the Arabidopsis SAM epidermis. These results suggest a plausible dynamic feedback principle by which the SAM stem cell niche is patterned.
22345639	Hydroponic experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of radial oxygen loss (ROL) and external aeration on iron (Fe) plaque formation, and arsenic (As) accumulation and speciation in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The data showed that there were significant correlations between ROL and Fe concentrations in Fe plaque produced on different genotypes of rice. There were also significant differences in the amounts of Fe plaque formed between different genotypes in different positions of roots and under different aeration conditions (aerated, normal, and stagnant treatments). In aerated treatments, rice tended to have a higher Fe plaque formation than in a stagnant solution, with the greatest formation at the root tip decreasing with increasing distances away, in accordance with a trend of spatial ROL. Genotypes with higher rates of ROL induced higher degrees of Fe plaque formation. Plaques sequestered As on rice roots, with arsenate almost double that with arsenite, leading to decreased As accumulation in both roots and shoots. The major As species detected in roots and shoots was arsenite, ranging from 34 to 78% of the total As in the different treatments and genotypes. These results contribute to our understanding of genotypic differences in As uptake by rice and the mechanisms causing rice genotypes with higher ROL to show lower overall As accumulation.
22345644	Salinity poses a major threat for agriculture worldwide. Rice is one of the major crops where most of the high-yielding cultivars are highly sensitive to salinity. Several studies on the genetic variability across rice cultivars suggest that the activity and composition of root plasma membrane transporters could underlie the observed cultivar-specific salinity tolerance in rice. In the current study, it was found that the salt-tolerant cultivar Pokkali maintains a higher K+/Na+ ratio compared with the salt-sensitive IR20 in roots as well as in shoots. Using Na+ reporter dyes, IR20 root protoplasts showed a much faster Na+ accumulation than Pokkali protoplasts. Membrane potential measurements showed that root cells exposed to Na+ in IR20 depolarized considerably further than those of Pokkali. These results suggest that IR20 has a larger plasma membrane Na+ conductance. To assess whether this could be due to different ion channel properties, root protoplasts from both Pokkali and IR20 rice cultivars were patch-clamped. Voltage-dependent K+ inward rectifiers, K+ outward rectifiers, and voltage-independent, non-selective channels with unitary conductances of around 35, 40, and 10 pS, respectively, were identified. Only the non-selective channel showed significant Na+ permeability. Intriguingly, in both cultivars, the activity of the K+ inward rectifier was drastically down-regulated after plant growth in salt but gating, conductance, and activity of all channel types were very similar for the two cultivars.
22346750	The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae is one of the most significant pathogens affecting global food security. To cause rice blast disease the fungus elaborates a specialised infection structure called an appressorium. Here, we report genome wide transcriptional profile analysis of appressorium development using next generation sequencing (NGS). We performed both RNA-Seq and High-Throughput SuperSAGE analysis to compare the utility of these procedures for identifying differential gene expression in M. oryzae. We then analysed global patterns of gene expression during appressorium development. We show evidence for large-scale gene expression changes, highlighting the role of autophagy, lipid metabolism and melanin biosynthesis in appressorium differentiation. We reveal the role of the Pmk1 MAP kinase as a key global regulator of appressorium-associated gene expression. We also provide evidence for differential expression of transporter-encoding gene families and specific high level expression of genes involved in quinate uptake and utilization, consistent with pathogen-mediated perturbation of host metabolism during plant infection. When considered together, these data provide a comprehensive high-resolution analysis of gene expression changes associated with cellular differentiation that will provide a key resource for understanding the biology of rice blast disease.
22347394	Rice (Oryza sativa) is an excellent model monocot with a known genome sequence for studying embryogenesis. Here we report the transcriptome profiling analysis of rice developing embryos using RNA-Seq as an attempt to gain insight into the molecular and cellular events associated with rice embryogenesis. RNA-Seq analysis generated 17,755,890 sequence reads aligned with 27,190 genes, which provided abundant data for the analysis of rice embryogenesis. A total of 23,971, 23,732, and 23,592 genes were identified from embryos at three developmental stages (3-5, 7, and 14 DAP), while an analysis between stages allowed the identification of a subset of stage-specific genes. The number of genes expressed stage-specifically was 1,131, 1,443, and 1,223, respectively. In addition, we investigated transcriptomic changes during rice embryogenesis based on our RNA-Seq data. A total of 1,011 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (log(2)Ratio ≥ 1, FDR ≤ 0.001) were identified; thus, the transcriptome of the developing rice embryos changed considerably. A total of 672 genes with significant changes in expression were detected between 3-5 and 7 DAP; 504 DEGs were identified between 7 and 14 DAP. A large number of genes related to metabolism, transcriptional regulation, nucleic acid replication/processing, and signal transduction were expressed predominantly in the early and middle stages of embryogenesis. Protein biosynthesis-related genes accumulated predominantly in embryos at the middle stage. Genes for starch/sucrose metabolism and protein modification were highly expressed in the middle and late stages of embryogenesis. In addition, we found that many transcription factor families may play important roles at different developmental stages, not only in embryo initiation but also in other developmental processes. These results will expand our understanding of the complex molecular and cellular events in rice embryogenesis and provide a foundation for future studies on embryo development in rice and other cereal crops.
22347598	Aflatoxins are mycotoxins produced by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus that can contaminate human and animal foods, including corn, wheat, rice, peanuts, and many other crops resulting in the illness or death of human and animal consumers. The aim of this study was to detect aflatoxin B1, B2, G1, G2 and total aflatoxin in Kashkineh, a traditional Iranian food. This survey was conducted to detect aflatoxins on 41 samples of Kashkineh. The samples were randomly collected from traditional bazaars and supermarkets of Khorramabad city of Iran. The presence and quantity of aflatoxins was determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The average concentrations of AFB1, AFB2, AFG1, and AFG2 in all samples and in a mixed sample of all samples were not detectable (ND). The only sample that showed aflatoxin contamination was sample number 29 of which the AFB1 concentration was 0.64 ng/g. Although some people believe Kashkineh is carcinogenic due to toxins, this study showed kashkineh is not contaminated with aflatoxins.
22348023	The drought tolerance (DT) of plants is a complex quantitative trait. Under natural and artificial selection, drought tolerance represents the crop survival ability and production capacity under drought conditions (Luo, 2010). To understand the regulation mechanism of varied drought tolerance among rice genotypes, 95 diverse rice landraces or varieties were evaluated within a field screen facility based on the 'line-source soil moisture gradient', and their resistance varied from extremely resistant to sensitive. The method of Ecotype Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes (Ecotilling) was used to analyze the diversity in the promoters of 24 transcription factor families. The bands separated by electrophoresis using Ecotilling were converted into molecular markers. STRUCTURE analysis revealed a value of K = 2, namely, the population with two subgroups (i.e., indica and japonica), which coincided very well with the UPGMA clusters (NTSYS-pc software) using distance-based analysis and InDel markers. Then the association analysis between the promoter diversity of these transcription factors and the DT index/level of each variety was performed. The results showed that three genes were associated with the DT index and that five genes were associated with the DT level. The sequences of these associated genes are complex and variable, especially at approximately 1000 bp upstream of the transcription initiation sites. The study illuminated that association analysis aimed at Ecotilling diversity of natural groups could facilitate the isolation of rice genes related to complex quantitative traits.
22348048	A new catalog of microRNA (miRNA) species called mirtrons has been discovered in animals recently, which originate from spliced introns of the gene transcripts. However, only one putative mirtron, osa-MIR1429, has been identified in rice (Oryza sativa). We employed a high-throughput sequencing (HTS) data- and structure-based approach to do a genome-wide search for the mirtron candidate in both Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice. Five and eighteen candidates were discovered in the two plants respectively. To investigate their biological roles, the targets of these mirtrons were predicted and validated based on degradome sequencing data. The result indicates that the mirtrons could guide target cleavages to exert their regulatory roles post-transcriptionally, which needs further experimental validation.
22348157	Opisthorchis viverrini is a food-borne trematode species that might give rise to biliary diseases and the fatal cholangiocarcinoma. In Lao PDR, an estimated 2.5 million individuals are infected with O. viverrini, but epidemiological studies are scarce and the spatial distribution of infection remains to be determined. Our aim was to map the distribution of O. viverrini in southern Lao PDR, identify underlying risk factors, and predict the prevalence of O. viverrini at non-surveyed locations. A cross-sectional parasitological and questionnaire survey was carried out in 51 villages in Champasack province in the first half of 2007. Data on demography, socioeconomic status, water supply, sanitation, and behavior were combined with remotely sensed environmental data and fed into a geographical information system. Bayesian geostatistical models were employed to identify risk factors and to investigate the spatial pattern of O. viverrini infection. Bayesian kriging was utilized to predict infection risk at non-surveyed locations. The prevalence of O. viverrini among 3,371 study participants with complete data records was 61.1%. Geostatistical models identified age, Lao Loum ethnic group, educational attainment, occupation (i.e., rice farmer, fisherman, and animal breeder), and unsafe drinking water source as risk factors for infection. History of praziquantel treatment, access to sanitation, and distance to freshwater bodies were found to be protective factors. Spatial patterns of O. viverrini were mainly governed by environmental factors with predictive modeling identifying two different risk profiles: low risk of O. viverrini in the mountains and high risk in the Mekong corridor. We present the first risk map of O. viverrini infection in Champasack province, which is important for spatial targeting of control efforts. Infection with O. viverrini appears to be strongly associated with exposure to the second intermediate host fish, human behavior and culture, whereas high transmission is sustained by the lack of sanitation.
22348456	In this study, we aimed to examine the effects of a plant-extractive compound on lipid profiles in subjects with metabolic syndrome. We hypothesized that extractives from red yeast rice, bitter gourd, chlorella, soy protein, and licorice have synergistic benefits on cholesterol and metabolic syndrome. In this double-blinded study, adult subjects with metabolic syndrome were randomized to receive a plant-extractive compound or a placebo treatment for 12 weeks. Both total cholesterol (5.4 ± 0.8 to 4.4 ± 0.6 mmol/L, P < .001) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (3.4 ± 0.7 to 2.7 ± 0.5 mmol/L, P < .001) were significantly reduced after treatment with the plant extractives, and the magnitudes of reduction were significantly greater than in the placebo group (-1.0 ± 0.6 vs 0.0 ± 0.6mmol/L, P < .001; -0.7 ± 0.6 vs 0.0 ± 0.6 mmol/L, P < .001). The reduction in the fasting triglycerides level was significantly greater in the plant-extractive group than in the placebo group (-0.5 ± 0.8 vs -0.2 ± 1.0 mmol/L, P = .039). There was also a significantly greater reduction in the proportion of subjects with hypertensive criteria in the plant-extractive group than in the placebo group (P = .040). In conclusion, the plant extractives from red yeast rice, bitter gourd, chlorella, soy protein, and licorice were effective in reducing total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The plant extractives also showed potential for reducing triglyceride and normalizing blood pressure.
22348505	Rice prolamins, a group of seed storage proteins, are synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and form type I protein bodies (PB-Is) in endosperm cells. Rice prolamins are encoded by a multigene family. In this study, the spatial accumulation patterns of various prolamin species in rice endosperm cells were investigated to determine the mechanism of formation of the internal structure of PB-Is. Immunofluorescence microscopic analysis of mature endosperm cells showed that the 10 kDa prolamin is mainly localized in the core of the PB-Is, the 13b prolamin is localized in the inner layer surrounding the core and the outermost layer, and the 13a and 16 kDa prolamins are localized in the middle layer. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that expression of the mRNA for 10 kDa prolamin precedes expression of 13a, 13b-1 and 16 kDa prolamin in the developing stages. mRNA expression for 13b-2 prolamin occurred after that of the other prolamin species. Immunoelectron microscopy of developing seeds showed that the 10 kDa prolamin polypeptide initially accumulates in the ER, and then 13b, 13a, 16 kDa and 13b prolamins are stacked in layers within the ER. Studies with transgenic rice seeds expressing prolamin-GFP fusion proteins under the control of native and constitutive promoters indicated that the temporal expression pattern of prolamin genes influenced the localization of prolamin proteins within the PB-Is. These findings indicate that the control of gene expression of prolamin species contributes to the internal structure of PB-Is.
22348517	Developmental adaptations due to early nutritional exposures may have permanent health consequences. Studies of diet and fetal size have mainly focused on individual nutrients despite evidence that the pattern of food consumption may be of significance. Hence, we evaluated the associations of dietary habits in early pregnancy (gestational age < 18 weeks) with fetal size, uteroplacental vascular resistance, placental weight and birth weight in a prospective observational study of 3207 Caucasian pregnant mothers in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Participants completed a semiquantitative FFQ during early pregnancy. Logistic regression analysis was used to predict the occurrence of intra-uterine growth retardation at birth as a function of food intake. The derived solution was considered as the dietary pattern. As it was characterised by higher intakes of fruit, vegetables, vegetable oil, fish, pasta and rice, and lower intakes of meat, potatoes and fatty sauces, it was labelled the 'Mediterranean' diet. The degree of adherence to the diet was positively associated with plasma folate and serum vitamin B12 concentrations and showed an inverse relationship with homocysteine and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein plasma concentrations (P <0·05). Important fetal size and placental parameters were associated with the degree of adherence to the diet, revealing a 72 g lower birth weight (95% CI -110·8, -33·3) and a 15 g lower placental weight (95% CI -29·8, -0·2) for women with low adherence to the diet. To conclude, low adherence to a Mediterranean diet in early pregnancy seems associated with decreased intra-uterine size with a lower placental and a lower birth weight.
22348947	Epistasis is a commonly observed genetic phenomenon and an important source of variation of complex traits, which could maintain additive variance and therefore assure the long-term genetic gain in breeding. Inclusive composite interval mapping (ICIM) is able to identify epistatic quantitative trait loci (QTLs) no matter whether the two interacting QTLs have any additive effects. In this article, we conducted a simulation study to evaluate detection power and false discovery rate (FDR) of ICIM epistatic mapping, by considering F2 and doubled haploid (DH) populations, different F2 segregation ratios and population sizes. Results indicated that estimations of QTL locations and effects were unbiased, and the detection power of epistatic mapping was largely affected by population size, heritability of epistasis, and the amount and distribution of genetic effects. When the same likelihood of odd (LOD) threshold was used, detection power of QTL was higher in F2 population than power in DH population; meanwhile FDR in F2 was also higher than that in DH. The increase of marker density from 10 cM to 5 cM led to similar detection power but higher FDR. In simulated populations, ICIM achieved better mapping results than multiple interval mapping (MIM) in estimation of QTL positions and effect. At the end, we gave epistatic mapping results of ICIM in one actual population in rice (Oryza sativa L.).
22349461	Photoperiod- and thermo-sensitive genic male sterility (PGMS and TGMS) are the core components for hybrid breeding in crops. Hybrid rice based on the two-line system using PGMS and TGMS lines has been successfully developed and applied widely in agriculture. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the control of PGMS and TGMS remains obscure. In this study, we mapped and cloned a major locus, p/tms12-1 (photo- or thermo-sensitive genic male sterility locus on chromosome 12), which confers PGMS in the japonica rice line Nongken 58S (NK58S) and TGMS in the indica rice line Peiai 64S (PA64S, derived from NK58S). A 2.4-kb DNA fragment containing the wild-type allele P/TMS12-1 was able to restore the pollen fertility of NK58S and PA64S plants in genetic complementation. P/TMS12-1 encodes a unique noncoding RNA, which produces a 21-nucleotide small RNA that we named osa-smR5864w. A substitution of C-to-G in p/tms12-1, the only polymorphism relative to P/TMS12-1, is present in the mutant small RNA, namely osa-smR5864m. Furthermore, overexpression of a 375-bp sequence of P/TMS12-1 in transgenic NK58S and PA64S plants also produced osa-smR5864w and restored pollen fertility. The small RNA was expressed preferentially in young panicles, but its expression was not markedly affected by different day lengths or temperatures. Our results reveal that the point mutation in p/tms12-1, which probably leads to a loss-of-function for osa-smR5864m, constitutes a common cause for PGMS and TGMS in the japonica and indica lines, respectively. Our findings thus suggest that this noncoding small RNA gene is an important regulator of male development controlled by cross-talk between the genetic networks and environmental conditions.
22349629	Organization of tissues in Arabidopsis thaliana root is made of, from outside in, epidermis, cortex, middle cortex, endodermis, pericycle and vascular tissues. Cortex, middle cortex and endodermis form the ground tissue (GT) system. Functional and molecular characterization of GT patterning mutants' properties has greatly increased our understanding of fundamental processes of plant root development. These studies have demonstrated GT is an elegant model that can be used to study how different cell types and cell fates are specified. This review analyzes GT mutants to provide a detailed account of the molecular network that regulates GT formation in A. thaliana. The most recent results indicate an unexpectedly complex network of transcription factors, epigenetic and hormonal controls that play crucial roles in GT development. Major differences exist between GT formation in dicots and monocots, particularly in the model plant rice, opening the way for evo-devo of GT formation in angiosperm. In rice, adaptation to submergence relies on a multilayered cortex. Moreover, variation in the number of cortex cell layers is also observed between the five root types. A mechanism of control for cortical cell number should then exist in rice and it remains to be determined if any of the Arabidopsis thaliana identified GT network members are also involved in this process in rice. Alternatively, a totally different network may have been invented. However, first available results suggest functional conservation in rice of at least two transcription factors, SHORT ROOT (SHR) and SCARECROW (SCR), involved in ground tissue formation in Arabidopsis.
22350087	Powdery mildew, caused by Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, is an important foliar disease of wheat worldwide. The dominant powdery mildew resistance gene PmAS846 was transferred to the hexaploid wheat lines N9134 and N9738 from wild emmer wheat (Triticum dicoccoides) in 1995, and it is still one of the most effective resistance genes in China. A high resolution genetic map for PmAS846 locus was constructed using two F(2) populations and corresponding F(2:3) families developed from the crosses of N9134/Shaanyou 225 and N9738/Huixianhong. Synteny between wheat and Brachypodium distachyon and rice was used to develop closely linked molecular markers to reduce the genetic interval around PmAS846. Twenty-six expressed sequence tag-derived markers were mapped to the PmAS846 locus. Five markers co-segregated with PmAS846 in the F(2) population of N9134/Shaanyou 225. PmAS846 was physically located to wheat chromosome 5BL bin 0.75-0.76 within a gene-rich region. The markers order is conserved between wheat and Brachypodium distachyon, but rearrangements are present in rice. Two markers, BJ261635 and CJ840011 flanked PmAS846 and narrowed PmAS846 to a region that is collinear with 197 and 112 kb genomic regions on Brachypodium chromosome 4 and rice chromosome 9, respectively. The genes located on the corresponding homologous regions in Brachypodium, rice and barley could be considered for further marker saturation and identification of potential candidate genes for PmAS846. The markers co-segregating with PmAS846 provide a potential target site for positional cloning of PmAS846, and can be used for marker-assisted selection of this gene.
22350178	Twelve single segment substitution lines (SSSLs) in rice, which contain quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for tiller number detected previously, were used to study dynamic expression of the QTLs in this study. These SSSLs and their recipient, Hua-Jing-Xian 74 (HJX74), were used to produce 78 crossing combinations first, and then these combinations and their parents were grown in two planting seasons with three cropping densities. Tiller number was measured at seven developmental stages. QTL effects including main effects (additive, dominance and epistasis), QTL × season and QTL × density interaction effects were analyzed at each measured stage. The additive, dominant and epistatic effects of the 12 QTLs as well as their interaction effects with the seasons and with the densities all display dynamic changes with the development. Eight QTLs are detected with significant additive effects and/or additive × season and/or additive × density interaction effects at least at one developmental stage, and all QTLs have significant dominant and epistatic effects and/or interaction effects involved in. For most of the QTLs dominant effects are much bigger than additive effects, showing overdominance. Each QTL interacts at least with eight other QTLs. Additive and dominant effects of these QTLs are mostly positive while epistatic effects are negative and minor. Most of the QTLs show significant interactions with planting seasons and cropping densities, but the additive effects of QTLs Tn3-1 and Tn3-2, the dominant effects of QTL Tn7 and Tn8, and the epistatic effects of 14 pairs of QTLs are stable across seasons and the dominant effect of QTL Tn3-3 and the epistatic effects of QTL pairs Tn2-1/Tn6-2, Tn2-1/Tn9 and Tn3-3/Tn6-3 are nearly consistent across cropping densities. This paper is the first report of dynamics on dominances and epistasis of QTLs for tiller number in rice and provides abundant information, which is useful to improve rice tiller number via heterosis and/or QTL pyramiding.
22350221	The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway contributes to various immunoinflammatory processes. Yet, its potential involvement in basophil responses in allergy remains unclear. In this pilot study, we quantified two key mTOR effector phosphoproteins, the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (peIF4E) and S6 ribosomal protein (pS6rp), in blood basophils from nut allergy patients (NA, N = 16) and healthy controls (HC, N = 13). Without stimulation in vitro, basophil peIF4E levels were higher in NA than HC subjects (P = 0.014). Stimulation with nut (offending) but not chicken / rice (non-offending) extract increased basophil peIF4E and pS6rp levels (+32%, P = 0.018, and +98%, P = 0.0026, respectively) in NA but not HC subjects, concomitant with increased surface levels of CD203c and CD63, both known to reflect basophil activation. Pre-treatment with the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin decreased pS6rp and CD203c responses in nut extract-stimulated basophils in NA subjects. Thus, basophil responses to offending allergens are associated with modulation of mTOR effector phosphoproteins.
22350764	Rice accumulates high level of arsenic (As) in its edible parts and thus plays an important role in the transfer of As into the food chain. However, the mechanisms of As uptake and its detoxification in rice are not well understood. Recently, members of the Nodulin 26-like intrinsic protein (NIP) subfamily of plant aquaporins were shown to transport arsenite in rice and Arabidopsis. Here we report that members of the rice plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) subfamily are also involved in As tolerance and transport. Based on the homology search with the mammalian AQP9 and yeast Fps1 arsenite transporters, we identified and cloned five rice PIP gene subfamily members. qRT-PCR analysis of PIPs in rice root and shoot tissues revealed a significant down regulation of transcripts encoding OsPIP1;2, OsPIP1;3, OsPIP2;4, OsPIP2;6, and OsPIP2;7 in response to arsenite treatment. Heterologous expression of OsPIP2;4, OsPIP2;6, and OsPIP2;7 in Xenopus laevis oocytes significantly increased the uptake of arsenite. Overexpression of OsPIP2;4, OsPIP2;6, and OsPIP2;7 in Arabidopsis yielded enhanced arsenite tolerance and higher biomass accumulation. Further, these transgenic plants showed no significant accumulation of As in shoot and root tissues in long term uptake assays. Whereas, short duration exposure to arsenite caused both active influx and efflux of As in the roots. The data suggests a bidirectional arsenite permeability of rice PIPs in plants. These rice PIPs genes will be highly useful for engineering important food and biofuel crops for enhanced crop productivity on contaminated soils without increasing the accumulation of toxic As in the biomass or edible tissues.
22350998	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice has been routinely performed according to the protocol reported by Hiei et al. (Plant J. 6:271-282, 1994). However, several elite japonica and many indica varieties cannot be efficiently transformed by Agrobacterium system. Also a large number of transformants are required to generate T-DNA insertion and FOX libraries as well as gene-targeting studies. To overcome these challenges, we established a high-efficiency transformation system in rice by cocultivating rice calli with Agrobacterium on filter papers moistened with enriched liquid media instead of using solid media (Ozawa, Plant Sci. 176:522-527, 2009; Ozawa and Takaiwa, Plant Sci. 179:333-337, 2010). In this system, the transformation efficiency of the calli is almost 100% in many varieties.
22350999	Acetolactate synthase (ALS) is an enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway for branched-chain amino acids, and bispyribac-sodium (BS), a pyrimidinyl carboxy herbicide, is a well-known inhibitor of ALS activity. However, it appears that a mutated form of rice ALS [OsmALS (W548L/S627I)] confers resistance to BS. We succeeded in using OsmALS with native OsALS promoter and terminator region for a selection marker of rice transformation. Because this selection marker cassette is originally from the rice endogenous genome, it can be expected to be publicly acceptable.
22351000	Fluorescent proteins such as green fluorescent protein (GFP) allow direct visualization of transformed cells without the need for exogenous substrates. Furthermore, visual selection using GFP is a powerful tool that can be used to isolate transformed cells without antibiotic or herbicide pressure and can be applied to transformation systems in plants hypersensitive to these agents. Moreover, we propose that visual selection enables isolation of calli in which the gene of interest is expressed to a high level, by selecting calli in which a strong GFP signal is observed. However, until now, the efficiency of clonal propagation using visual selection has been lower than that in antibiotic selection because of the technical difficulties involved in the isolation and clonal propagation of transformed calli with conventional transformation frequencies. We have succeeded in improving the efficiency of clonal propagation by the use of a rice cultivar that exhibits high competency for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation.
22351001	As a result of the progress in sequencing technology, many plant genomes have now been determined. Functional genomics is required to clarify gene function in many of these species. To identify useful genes easily and quickly, we have developed a FOX (full-length cDNA overexpressor) hunting system in which full-length cDNAs are overexpressed in Arabidopsis plants. This system was applied to high-throughput analysis of rice genes through heterologous expression in Arabidopsis (rice FOX Arabidopsis lines). We demonstrated that it is possible to carry out high-throughput analysis of gene function by utilizing rice FOX Arabidopsis lines. In this protocol, we describe how to isolate candidate rice FOX Arabidopsis lines and to determine the rice fl-cDNA that is responsible for the observed phenotype.
22351002	The efficient transformation of plants with large DNA molecules containing a set of useful genes would provide vast possibilities for the genetic improvement of agricultural as well as nonagricultural plants. The development of the bioactive beads (BABs) transformation method has proven useful for introduction of large DNA molecules into plant cells. In this chapter, the BABs transformation method used for the transformation of a 100-kb BAC DNA construct containing wheat genes into rice will be presented. Furthermore, the improved production method for BABs will be described. With the conventional method for producing BABs, the bead size varies, and the larger beads tend to carry fewer DNA molecules than the smaller beads. Thus, in order to facilitate the preparation of BABs with more uniform sizes, a simple set-up -composed of a sine wave sound generator and microsyringe pump was fabricated. Using this bead-maker set-up, uniform and smaller beads could be produced which enhance the transformation efficiency.
22351022	Use of a transposon is an efficient tagging tool for exploring the function of the gene it inserts into or is adjacent to. A few modifications have been applied to the native Ac transposon to allow it to transpose efficiently or spontaneously and stop quickly thereafter. Furthermore, locating the transposon between a constitutive plant promoter and a reporter gene, such as the firefly luciferase gene, allows for nondestructively detecting excision events in vivo. This chapter describes a detailed protocol for one-time inducible transposon tagging of rice cells and their subsequent screening and regeneration into mutant lines.
22351026	Combinatorial nuclear transformation is used to generate populations of transgenic plants containing random selections from a collection of input transgenes. This is a useful approach because it provides the means to test different combinations of genes without the need for separate transformation experiments, allowing the comprehensive analysis of metabolic pathways and other genetic systems requiring the coordinated expression of multiple genes. The principle of combinatorial nuclear transformation is demonstrated in this chapter through protocols developed in our laboratory that allow combinations of genes encoding enzymes in the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway to be introduced into rice and a white-endosperm variety of corn. These allow the accumulation of carotenoids to be screened initially by the colour of the endosperm, which ranges from white through various shades of yellow and orange depending on the types and quantities of carotenoids present. The protocols cover the preparation of DNA-coated metal particles, the transformation of corn and rice plants by particle bombardment, the regeneration of transgenic plants, the extraction of carotenoids from plant tissues, and their analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography.
22351029	A mutated rice acetolactate synthase (mALS) gene expressed under the control of the rice callus-specific promoter (CSP) (CSP:mALS) becomes a useful selectable marker for producing transgenic rice seed with higher accumulation of recombinant protein. When amounts of transgene products in mature seeds are compared between transgenic rice lines containing the CSP:mALS selection gene cassette and those with the hygromycin phosphotransferase (HPT) gene under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter (35S:HPT), the former transgenic rice seeds usually resulted in 1.2- to 2-fold higher accumulation of transgene products than in the latter. It is considered that specific expression of a selection marker gene at the selection stage may allow enhanced transgene products in seeds.This chapter represents a highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated rice transformation system using the CSP:mALS gene cassette in place of the conventional constitutive selection using bacterial antibiotics. This selection stage specific expression using a rice-derived selection marker mALS will be especially beneficial for developing transgenic rice seeds accumulating bioactive proteins or peptides contributing to human health promotion; pharmaceutical products such as vaccine, antibodies, and biopharmaceuticals; and industrial enzymes.
22351076	Silicon (Si) is known to be beneficial to plants, namely in alleviating biotic and abiotic stresses. The magnitude of such positive effects is associated with a plant's natural ability to absorb Si. Many grasses can accumulate as much as 10% on a dry weight basis while most dicots, including Arabidopsis, will accumulate less than 0.1%. In this report, we describe the cloning and functional characterization of TaLsi1, a wheat Si transporter gene. In addition, we developed a heterologous system for the study of Si uptake in plants by introducing TaLsi1 and OsLsi1, its ortholog in rice, into Arabidopsis, a species with a very low innate Si uptake capacity. When expressed constitutively under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, both TaLsi1 and OsLsi1 were expressed in cells of roots and shoots. Such constitutive expression of TaLsi1 or OsLsi1 resulted in a fourfold to fivefold increase in Si accumulation in transformed plants compared to WT. However, this Si absorption caused deleterious symptoms. When the wheat transporter was expressed under the control of a root-specific promoter (a boron transporter gene (AtNIP5;1) promoter), a similar increase in Si absorption was noted but the plants did not exhibit symptoms and grew normally. These results demonstrate that TaLsi1 is indeed a functional Si transporter as its expression in Arabidopsis leads to increased Si uptake, but that this expression must be confined to root cells for healthy plant development. The availability of this heterologous expression system will facilitate further studies into the mechanisms and benefits of Si uptake.
22351167	The technologies being developed for the large-scale, essentially unbiased analysis of the small molecules present in organic extracts made from plant materials are greatly changing our way of thinking about what is possible in plant biology. A range of different separation and detection techniques are being refined and expanded and their combination with advanced data management and data analysis approaches is already giving plant scientists far deeper insights into the complexity of plant metabolism and plant metabolic composition than was imaginable just a few years ago. This field of "metabolomics", while still in its infancy, has nevertheless already been welcomed with open arms by the plant science community, partly because of these said advantages but also because of the broad potential applicability of the approaches in both fundamental and applied science. The diversity in application already ranges from understanding the considerable complexity of primary metabolic networks in Arabidopsis, to the changes which occur in the biochemical composition of foods occurring, for example, during the Pasteurization of tomato purée for long-term storage or the boiling of Basmati rice for direct consumption. The insights being gained are revealing valuable information on the strict control yet flexible nature of plant metabolic networks in many different systems. This volume aims to give a comprehensive overview of the approaches available for the performance of a "typical" plant metabolomics experiment, the choice of analytical techniques and to offer warnings on the potential pitfalls in experimental design and execution.
22351172	The natural fragrance compounds produced by plants play key roles in the long-term fitness and survival of these plants as well as being of direct/indirect benefit to man. Almost all plant fragrances, either pleasant or unpleasant, comprise many different compounds, from different chemical classes and can indeed be highly complex in composition involving several hundred types of volatile molecule. Analyzing these mixtures and identifying their main (bio)active components is of importance in both fundamental and applied science. Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) plays a central role here. GC-MS has regularly been used for fragrance analysis and different extraction/adsorption and detection protocols have been designed specifically for plant materials. In this chapter, two methods are presented for two highly contrasting plant organs-a melon fruit and rice grains. Metabolomics analyses of these important food crops are already helping us understand better which components are most important in determining the flavour of these important food crops and how we might go about producing new "designer" crops which are even tastier than the existing ones.
22351508	To investigate breakfast eating habits on daily energy and fish, vegetable, and fruit intake in Japanese adolescents. This study was completed as part of the Shunan Child Health Cohort Study. Two types of questionnaires, one on lifestyle habits and the other a brief-type, self-administered questionnaire on diet history, were administered to second-year junior high school students (1,876 boys and 1,759 girls) in Shunan City, Yamaguchi, Japan. The different breakfast habits were compared using the general linear model and the estimated means and P value for trend were calculated, with energy-adjusted food intake as the dependent variable and body mass index, gender, age, residential areas, and living status as covariates. In both males and females, the proportion of those who ate breakfast irregularly was about 10%. The daily intake of fish, vegetables, and fruit was significantly higher in those who ate breakfast with their guardians than in those who ate breakfast alone (P for trend <0.01). The daily intake of fish, seafood, and vegetables was significantly higher in those who less frequently ate cooked foods for breakfast (P for trend <0.01). Those who ate rice more frequently than bread at breakfast had a higher daily intake of fish, seafood, and vegetables (P for trend <0.01). Eating breakfast with the family, reducing the intake of cooked foods at breakfast, and eating breakfast with rice as a main staple food are suggested to contribute to an improved quality of diet in adolescents.
22352717	In Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the bacterial blight pathogen of rice, a secreted fatty acid signaling molecule known as diffusible signal factor (DSF) is required for virulence and growth on low-iron medium. To identify other virulence-associated traits that are regulated by DSF in this pathogen, we have performed microarray analysis of transcriptional changes between the wild type and DSF-deficient mutants of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Expression of genes that encode secreted hydrolytic enzymes, motility, and chemotaxis functions are negatively regulated by DSF while functions involved in adhesion and biofilm formation are positively regulated. Enzymatic assays for hydrolytic enzymes as well as assays for chemotaxis, motility, attachment, and biofilm formation corroborate these findings. These results demonstrate that, in X. oryzae pv. oryzae, DSF-mediated cell-to-cell signaling coordinates transition from solitary to biofilm lifestyle by promoting expression of attachment functions and negatively regulating expression of motility functions. This is in contrast to X. campestris pv. campestris, a pathogen of crucifers, wherein the DSF system positively regulates motility functions and negatively regulates biofilm formation. These results indicate that virulence-associated functions can be regulated in a completely contrasting fashion by the same signaling system in very closely related bacteria.
22352724	This study assesses the arsenic (As) accumulation in different varieties of rice grain, that people in rural Bengal mostly prefer for daily consumption, to estimate the potential risk of dietary As exposure through rice intake. The rice samples have been classified according to their average length (L) and L to breadth (B) ratio into four categories, such as short-bold (SB), medium-slender (MS), long-slender (LS), and extra-long slender (ELS). The brown colored rice samples fall into the SB, MS, or LS categories; while all Indian Basmati (white colored) are classified as ELS. The study indicates that the average accumulation of As in rice grain increases with a decrease of grain size (ELS: 0.04; LS: 0.10; MS: 0.16; and SB: 0.33 mg kg(-1)), however people living in the rural villages mostly prefer brown colored SB type of rice because of its lower cost. For the participants consuming SB type of brown rice, the total daily intake of inorganic As (TDI-iAs) in 29% of the cases exceeds the previous WHO recommended provisional tolerable daily intake value (2.1 μg day(-1) kg(-1) BW), and in more than 90% of cases, the As content in the drinking water equivalent to the inorganic As intake from rice consumption (C(W,eqv)) exceeds the WHO drinking water guideline of 10 μg L(-1). This study further demonstrates that participants in age groups 18-30 and 51-65 yrs are the most vulnerable to the potential health threat of dietary As exposure compared to participants of age group 31-50 yrs, because of higher amounts of brown rice consumption patterns and lower BMI.
22352923	Japanese sake (rice wine) is commonly heat treated (pasteurized) to maintain its quality. In this study, temporal changes in the metabolite profiles of pasteurized and unpasteurized sake were investigated during storage. Metabolomic analyses were conducted for eight sets of pasteurized and unpasteurized sake obtained from single process batches stored at 8 or 20 °C for 0, 1, 2, or 4 months. Capillary electrophoresis time-of-flight mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry were used to obtain charged metabolite and sugar profiles, respectively. The total amino acid concentration decreased with storage, and the decrease was faster in pasteurized sake than in unpasteurized. The organic acid concentrations were relatively constant in both types of sake. Peptide and glucose concentrations increased and polysaccharide concentrations decreased in unpasteurized sake, while they were relatively constant in pasteurized sake. Rather than stabilizing the sake metabolite profile during storage, pasteurization results in characteristic changes compared to unpasteurized sake.
22353560	Gene expression in chloroplasts is regulated by many nuclear-encoded proteins. In this study, we isolated a rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica) mutant osotp51 with significant reduction in photosystem I (PSI). The osotp51 is extremely sensitive to light and accumulates a higher level of reactive oxygen species. Its leaves are almost albino when grown at 40 μmol photons/m(2) per s. However, grown at 4 μmol photons/m(2) per s, osotp51 has a similar phenotype to the wild-type. 77K chlorophyll fluorescence analysis showed a blue shift in the highest peak emission from PSI in osotp51. In addition, the level of PSI and PSII dimer is dramatically reduced in osotp51. OSOTP 51 encodes a pentatricopeptide repeats protein, homologous to organelle transcript processing 51 in Arabidopsis. Loss-of-function OSOTP51 affects intron splicing of a number of plastid genes, particularly the ycf3 coding a protein involved in the assembly of PSI complex. OSOTP51 is functionally conserved in higher plants. The mutation of osotp51 indirectly leads to a widespread change in the structure and functions of PSI, results in severe photoinhibition, and finally dies, even when grown under very low light intensity.
22353574	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are a unique class of plant steroid hormones that orchestrate myriad growth and developmental processes. Although BRs have long been known to protect plants from a suite of biotic and abiotic stresses, our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms is still rudimentary. Aiming to further decipher the molecular logic of BR-modulated immunity, we have examined the dynamics and impact of BRs during infection of rice (Oryza sativa) with the root oomycete Pythium graminicola. Challenging the prevailing view that BRs positively regulate plant innate immunity, we show that P. graminicola exploits BRs as virulence factors and hijacks the rice BR machinery to inflict disease. Moreover, we demonstrate that this immune-suppressive effect of BRs is due, at least in part, to negative cross talk with salicylic acid (SA) and gibberellic acid (GA) pathways. BR-mediated suppression of SA defenses occurred downstream of SA biosynthesis, but upstream of the master defense regulators NONEXPRESSOR OF PATHOGENESIS-RELATED GENES1 and OsWRKY45. In contrast, BR alleviated GA-directed immune responses by interfering at multiple levels with GA metabolism, resulting in indirect stabilization of the DELLA protein and central GA repressor SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1). Collectively, these data favor a model whereby P. graminicola coopts the plant BR pathway as a decoy to antagonize effectual SA- and GA-mediated defenses. Our results highlight the importance of BRs in modulating plant immunity and uncover pathogen-mediated manipulation of plant steroid homeostasis as a core virulence strategy.
22353606	Arabidopsis NPR1 is a master regulator of systemic acquired resistance. NPR1 binds to TGA transcription factors and functions as a transcriptional co-activator. In rice, NH1/OsNPR1 functions to enhance innate immunity. NRR disrupts NH1 function, when over-expressed. We have established a rice transient protoplast assay to demonstrate that NH1 is a transcriptional co-activator and that NRR represses NH1-mediated activation. We identified three NRR homologues (RH1, RH2, and RH3). RH1 and RH3, but not RH2, also effectively repress NH1-mediated transcriptional activation. NRR, RH1, RH2, and RH3 share sequence similarity in a region beyond the previously identified NPR1-interacting domain. This region is required for strong interaction with NH1. A double point mutation, W66A/F70A, in this novel NH1-interacting domain severely reduces interaction with NH1. Mutation W66A/F70A also greatly reduces the ability of NRR to repress NH1-mediated activation. RH2 carries a deviation (amino acids AV) in this region as compared to consensus sequences (amino acids ED) among NRR, RH1, and RH3. A substitution (AV to ED) in RH2 results in strong binding of mutant RH2ED to NH1 and effective repression of NH1-mediated activation. The protoplast-based transient system can be used to dissect protein domains associated with their functions. Our results demonstrate that the ability of NRR and its homologues to repress NH1-mediated transcriptional activation is tightly correlated with their ability to bind to NH1. Furthermore, a sequence is identified as a novel NH1-interacting domain. Importantly, this novel sequence is widely present in plant species, from cereals to castor bean plants, to poplar trees, to Arabidopsis, indicating its significance in plants.
22354659	Fusarium equiseti (Corda) Saccardo is a soil saprophyte and a weak pathogen, associated with several diseases of fruit and other crops in subtropical and tropical areas, but also in countries with temperate climate. A wide range of secondary metabolites has been identified among natural F. equiseti populations, with zearalenone (ZEA), fusarochromanone and fusarenon-X being the most common. In present study, the genetic diversity of strains from two populations (from Italy and Poland) was evaluated by analysing the translation elongation factor 1α (tef-1α) sequences, two polyketide synthases from the ZEA biosynthetic pathway (PKS13 and PKS4) and the TRI5 gene from the trichothecene biosynthetic pathway. ZEA was produced in rice cultures by 20 of the 27 tested isolates in concentrations ranging from 1.34 ng/g to 34,000 ng/g). The ability to produce enniatins and trichothecenes was evaluated in all strains by identifying esyn1, TRI13 and TRI4 genes. The presence of PKS4 and PKS13 genes was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in only some ZEA-producing isolates. Similarly, the TRI5 gene was found in 14 of the 27 isolates tested. This is likely to have been caused by the divergence of those genes between F. equiseti and F. graminearum (the latter species was used for the primers design) and can be exploited in phylogenetic studies. The analysis of the mycotoxin biosynthetic gene sequences can be used to differentiate the studied genotypes even more precisely than the analysis of the non-coding regions (like tef-1α).
2235510
22355220	Non-LTR retrotransposons comprise significant portion of the plants genome. Their complete characterization is thus necessary if the sequenced genome is to be annotated correctly. The long and short interspersed nucleotide repetitive elements (LINE and SINE) may be responsible for alteration in the expression mechanism of neighboring genes, the complete identification of these elements in the rice genome is essential in order studying their putative functional interactions with the plant genes and its role in genome composition. The main emphasis of this work is to assemble a comprehensive dataset of nonLTR (LINEs and SINEs) and the map of completely inserted LINEs and SINE type of retroelement by both intact ends (3' and 5' ends). The assembled information and work may help for further research in this direction.
2235528
22355416	The completion of the grape genome sequencing project has paved the way for novel gene discovery and functional analysis. Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) comprise a gene superfamily encoding NAD(P)(+)-dependent enzymes that catalyze the irreversible oxidation of a wide range of endogenous and exogenous aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes. Although ALDHs have been systematically investigated in several plant species including Arabidopsis and rice, our knowledge concerning the ALDH genes, their evolutionary relationship and expression patterns in grape has been limited. A total of 23 ALDH genes were identified in the grape genome and grouped into ten families according to the unified nomenclature system developed by the ALDH Gene Nomenclature Committee (AGNC). Members within the same grape ALDH families possess nearly identical exon-intron structures. Evolutionary analysis indicates that both segmental and tandem duplication events have contributed significantly to the expansion of grape ALDH genes. Phylogenetic analysis of ALDH protein sequences from seven plant species indicates that grape ALDHs are more closely related to those of Arabidopsis. In addition, synteny analysis between grape and Arabidopsis shows that homologs of a number of grape ALDHs are found in the corresponding syntenic blocks of Arabidopsis, suggesting that these genes arose before the speciation of the grape and Arabidopsis. Microarray gene expression analysis revealed large number of grape ALDH genes responsive to drought or salt stress. Furthermore, we found a number of ALDH genes showed significantly changed expressions in responses to infection with different pathogens and during grape berry development, suggesting novel roles of ALDH genes in plant-pathogen interactions and berry development. The genome-wide identification, evolutionary and expression analysis of grape ALDH genes should facilitate research in this gene family and provide new insights regarding their evolution history and functional roles in plant stress tolerance.
22355457	Outbreaks of the southern rice black-streaked dwarf virus (SRBSDV) have caused significant crop losses in southern China in recent years, especially in 2010. There are no effective, quick and practicable methods for the diagnosis of rice dwarf disease that can be used in the field. Traditional reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) methodology is accurate but requires expensive reagents and instruments, as well as complex procedures that limit its applicability for field tests. To develop a sensitive and reliable assay for routine laboratory diagnosis, a rapid dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (dot-ELISA) method was developed for testing rice plants infected by SRBSDV. Based on anti-SRBSDV rabbit antiserum, this new dot-ELISA was highly reliable, sensitive and specific toward SRBSDV. The accuracy of two blotting media, polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (PVDF membrane) and nitrocellulose filter membrane (NC membrane), was compared. In order to facilitate the on-site diagnosis, three county laboratories were established in Shidian (Yunnan province), Jianghua (Hunan Province) and Libo (Guizhou province). Suspected rice cases from Shidian, Yuanjiang and Malipo in Yunnan province were tested and some determined to be positive for SRBSDV by the dot-ELISA and confirmed by the One Step RT-PCR method. To date, hundreds of suspected rice samples collected from 61 districts in southwestern China have been tested, among which 55 districts were found to have rice crops infected by SRBSDV. Furthermore, the test results in the county laboratories showed that Libo, Dehong (suspected samples were sent to Shidian) and Jianghua were experiencing a current SRBSDV outbreak.
22355686	Rice blast caused by Magnaporthe oryzae is a devastating disease of rice. Mechanisms of rice resistance to blast have been studied extensively, and the rice-M. oryzae pathosystem has become a model for plant-microbe interaction studies. However, the mechanisms of non-host resistance (NHR) to rice blast in other plants remain poorly understood. We found that penetration resistance to M. oryzae in multiple mutants, including pen2 NahG pmr5 agb1 and pen2 NahG pmr5 mlo2 plants, was severely compromised and that fungal growth was permitted in penetrated epidermal cells. Furthermore, rice Pi21 enhanced movement of infection hyphae from penetrated Arabidopsis epidermal cells to adjacent mesophyll cells. These results indicate that PEN2, PMR5, AGB1, and MLO2 function in both penetration and post-penetration resistance to M. oryzae in Arabidopsis, and suggest that the absence of rice Pi21 contributed to Arabidopsis NHR to M. oryzae.
22356106	Four, rumen fistulated swamp buffalo bulls were used to study microbial populations in the rumen when supplemented with coconut oil and mangosteen peel. Animals were randomly assigned to a 4 × 4 Latin square design. Four treatments were un-supplemented (Control), supplementation with coconut oil at 50 g/kg (CO5), supplementation with mangosteen peel at 30 g/kg (MP3) and supplementation with CO5 and MP3 (COM), of total DM intake. Animals received concentrate at 10 g/kg of BW, and rice straw was given ad libitum. Abundance of total bacteria was increased by CO5 supplementation, whereas populations of protozoa and Fibrobacter succinogenes were reduced by CO5 and COM supplementation. Dietary supplementation did not affect methanogen, Ruminococcus flavefaciens or Ruminococcus albus abundances. Dietary treatments changed denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) band patterns of methanogens and protozoa when compared with the control group, especially when supplemented with MP3. Supplementation of COM resulted in the greatest difference in pattern of DGGE bands for total bacteria compared with the control. Coconut oil and mangosteen peel supplementation resulted in changing of rumen microbial abundances and communities; however, combination of them could be more benefit to improve rumen fermentation of swamp buffalo fed on rice straw.
22356429	The decomposition and intramolecular H-transfer isomerization reactions of the 1-pentyl radical have been studied at temperatures of 880 to 1055 K and pressures of 80 to 680 kPa using the single pulse shock tube technique and additionally investigated with quantum chemical methods. The 1-pentyl radical was generated by shock heating dilute mixtures of 1-iodopentane and the stable products of its decomposition have been observed by postshock gas chromatographic analysis. Ethene and propene are the main olefin products and account for >97% of the carbon balance from 1-pentyl. Also produced are very small amounts of (E)-2-pentene, (Z)-2-pentene, and 1-butene. The ethene/propene product ratio is pressure dependent and varies from about 3 to 5 over the range of temperatures and pressures studied. Formation of ethene and propene can be related to the concentrations of 1-pentyl and 2-pentyl radicals in the system and the relative rates of five-center intramolecular H-transfer reactions and β C-C bond scissions. The 3-pentyl radical, formed via a four-center intramolecular H transfer, leads to 1-butene and plays only a very minor role in the system. The observed (E/Z)-2-pentenes can arise from a small amount of beta C-H bond scission in the 2-pentyl radical. The current experimental and computational results are considered in conjunction with relevant literature data from lower temperatures to develop a consistent kinetics model that reproduces the observed branching ratios and pressure effects. The present experimental results provide the first available data on the pressure dependence of the olefin product branching ratio for alkyl radical decomposition at high temperatures and require a value of <ΔE(down)(1000 K)> = (675 ± 100) cm(-1) for the average energy transferred in deactivating collisions in an argon bath gas when an exponential-down model is employed. High pressure rate expressions for the relevant H-transfer reactions and β bond scissions are derived and a Rice Ramsberger Kassel Marcus/Master Equation (RRKM/ME) analysis has been performed and used to extrapolate the data to temperatures between 700 and 1900 K and pressures of 10 to 1 × 10(5) kPa.
22356744	An endophytic fungus was tested in rice (Oryza sativa L.) exposed to four levels of lead (Pb) stress (0, 50, 100 and 200 μM) to assess effects on plant growth, photosynthesis and antioxidant enzyme activity. Under Pb stress conditions, endophyte-infected seedlings had greater shoot length but lower root length compared to non-infected controls, and endophyte-infected seedlings had greater dry weight in the 50 and 100 μM Pb treatments. Under Pb stress conditions, chlorophyll and carotenoid levels were significantly higher in the endophyte-infected seedlings. Net photosynthetic rate, transpiration rate and water use efficiency were significantly higher in endophyte-infected seedlings in the 50 and 100 μM Pb treatments. In addition, chlorophyll fluorescence parameters Fv/Fm and Fv/Fo were higher in the infected seedlings compared to the non-infected seedlings under Pb stress. Malondialdehyde accumulation was induced by Pb stress, and it was present in higher concentration in non-infected seedlings under higher concentrations of Pb (100 and 200 μM). Antioxidant activity was either higher or unchanged in the infected seedlings due to responses to the different Pb concentrations. These results suggest that the endophytic fungus improved rice growth under moderate Pb levels by enhancing photosynthesis and antioxidant activity relative to non-infected rice.
22357211	Finger millet plants conferring resistance to leaf blast disease have been developed by inserting a rice chitinase (chi11) gene through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Plasmid pHyg-Chi.11 harbouring the rice chitinase gene under the control of maize ubiquitin promoter was introduced into finger millet using Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 (pSB1). Transformed plants were selected and regenerated on hygromycin-supplemented medium. Transient expression of transgene was confirmed by GUS histochemical staining. The incorporation of rice chitinase gene in R0 and R1 progenies was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analyses. Expression of chitinase gene in finger millet was confirmed by Western blot analysis with a barley chitinase antibody. A leaf blast assay was also performed by challenging the transgenic plants with spores of Pyricularia grisea. The frequency of transient expression was 16.3% to 19.3%. Stable frequency was 3.5% to 3.9%. Southern blot analysis confirmed the integration of 3.1 kb chitinase gene. Western blot analysis detected the presence of 35 kDa chitinase enzyme. Chitinase activity ranged from 19.4 to 24.8. In segregation analysis, the transgenic R1 lines produced three resistant and one sensitive for hygromycin, confirming the normal Mendelian pattern of transgene segregation. Transgenic plants showed high level of resistance to leaf blast disease compared to control plants. This is the first study reporting the introduction of rice chitinase gene into finger millet for leaf blast resistance.
22357292	For efficient bioethanol production from lignocellulosic biomass by Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it is necessary to improve cellular tolerance to toxic compounds released during the pretreatment of biomass. The gene encoding p-nitrophenylphosphatase, PHO13, was disrupted in a recombinant xylose-fermenting S. cerevisiae strain, which improved ethanol production from xylose in the presence of three major inhibitors, acetic and formic acids, and furfural. In medium supplemented with 30 mM acetic acid, the ethanol yield obtained by the ΔPHO13 mutant was 0.45 g-ethanol/g-xylose. Notably, the specific ethanol productivity of the mutant in the presence of 90 mM furfural was fourfold higher than that of the control strain. The PHO13-disrupted strain produced ethanol from rice straw hydrolysate obtained by liquid hot-water pretreatment with a greater than fourfold higher xylose consumption rate than the control. Together, our findings demonstrate that PHO13 deletion is a simple, but effective, approach for improving cellulosic bioethanol production by S. cerevisiae.
22357475	To study the effects of environmental enrichment on neuron proliferation, learning and memory ability and motor ability in neonatal rats with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD). One hundred and eight 7-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: sham operation (CON group), HIBD and intervention group. HIBD model was prepared according to the classic Rice-Vannucci method. Environmental enrichment was administered for the rats in the intervention group after HIBD inducement. Behavioral tests (Water maze test, Suspension test and Slope test) were performed and the number of neural cells in the left hippocampus was examined 7, 14 and 28 days after intervention. The pyramid cells in the hippocampus CA1 area in the HIBD group were significantly less than in the CON group at 7, 14 and 28 days (P<0.05). The number of pyramid cells in the hippocampus CA1 area in the intervention group was significantly higher than in the HIBD group (P<0.01) at 7, 14 and 28 days. The hidden platform escape latency period (EL) in the Water maze test was significantly more prolonged and the cross-platform number within 2 minutes was significantly less in the HIBD and the intervention groups than in the CON group at all observed time points (P<0.01). The EL was significantly shorter and the cross-platform number within 2 minutes was significantly higher in the intervention group than in the HIBD group at all observed time points (P<0.01). The maintain time and score in the Suspension test were significantly lower and the time in the Slope test was significantly more prolonged in the HIBD and intervention groups than in the CON group at 7, 14 and 28 days (P<0.01). An increased maintain time and score and a decreased time in the Slope test were found in the intervention group compared with the HIBD group at 14 and 28 days (P<0.01). Environmental enrichment can improve motor function, learning and memory ability, and promote the repair and proliferation of neurons in neonatal rats with HIBD.
22357928	Karrikins are butenolides derived from burnt vegetation that stimulate seed germination and enhance seedling responses to light. Strigolactones are endogenous butenolide hormones that regulate shoot and root architecture, and stimulate the branching of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Thus, karrikins and strigolactones are structurally similar but physiologically distinct plant growth regulators. In Arabidopsis thaliana, responses to both classes of butenolides require the F-box protein MAX2, but it remains unclear how discrete responses to karrikins and strigolactones are achieved. In rice, the DWARF14 protein is required for strigolactone-dependent inhibition of shoot branching. Here, we show that the Arabidopsis DWARF14 orthologue, AtD14, is also necessary for normal strigolactone responses in seedlings and adult plants. However, the AtD14 paralogue KARRIKIN INSENSITIVE 2 (KAI2) is specifically required for responses to karrikins, and not to strigolactones. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that KAI2 is ancestral and that AtD14 functional specialisation has evolved subsequently. Atd14 and kai2 mutants exhibit distinct subsets of max2 phenotypes, and expression patterns of AtD14 and KAI2 are consistent with the capacity to respond to either strigolactones or karrikins at different stages of plant development. We propose that AtD14 and KAI2 define a class of proteins that permit the separate regulation of karrikin and strigolactone signalling by MAX2. Our results support the existence of an endogenous, butenolide-based signalling mechanism that is distinct from the strigolactone pathway, providing a molecular basis for the adaptive response of plants to smoke.
22358071	To describe ecological farmers' conceptions of healthy eating. Study with a qualitative approach. In January and February 2007, supported by a guide, in-depth interviews were conducted with 11 women and one man who were living in an agricultural community in Rio Branco do Sul, Southern Brazil. The interviewees were selected randomly from among the 20 ecological farming families in this municipality. Three analysis categories were identified: "awareness of healthy eating"; "purchasing power" and "healthy land". The significance of healthy eating for the female farmers involved the idea that foods should be natural, without agricultural pesticides or manufactured chemical products. The daily routine should include abundant consumption of fruits, greens and other vegetables, in addition to the basic rice, beans and meat, and the composition of dishes should aim towards prevention of obesity and chronic-degenerative diseases. Care regarding natural resources in order to ensure production of healthy foods, food safety, environmental sustainability and the future of life on the planet form part of the concept of healthy eating. Knowledge, self-criticism and discernment accompanied the conceptions of healthy eating.
22358675	PCR with random primers (RAPD analysis) performed on the DNA of embryogenic and non-embryogenic suspension cultured rice and of transformed rice plants allows the evaluation of the extent of DNA changes in the different biological materials. This is thus suggested as a convenient approach, in combination with restriction analysis and Southerns blotting, to evaluate the integrity of the foreign gene, the stability of the insertion site and the stability of the whole genome.
22359427	Knowledge of rice genome brings new dimensions to the management of abiotic stresses; however, gene sequences in the rice genome are yet to be assigned structure and function. Hydrogen peroxide, salicylates and jasmonates act as signal molecules in plants employing common machinery to manage abiotic stress. The present work is primarily focused to assign a structurefunction relationship by modeling of the hypothetical proteins of SA-JA signaling pathway known in Arabidopsis thaliana and compare them with corresponding proteins in rice in silico. Thirteen known gene sequences with their encoded proteins for SA/JA pathway in model plant A. thaliana were obtained and similar gene sequences from rice were retrieved at NCBI. Five rice gene sequences Os09g0392100, Os03g0233200, OsJ_33269, OsJ_23610 and Os01g0194300 resulted in hypothetical protein products with unknown structure and function. Modeling and comparison of 5 proteins from rice and Arabidopsis showed 73 - 98% identity with acceptable RMSD values of 0.6 - 1.7 upon superimposition. Results suggest conserved nature of these proteins during evolution. The hypothetical protein from rice contains similar functional protein domain as that in A. thaliana and therefore are likely to perform similar functions in rice. There is a cross talk between the genes in SA/JA pathway wherein Os09g0392100 or EDS1, Os03g0233200 or PR5, OsJ_33269 or PAD4 and OsJ_23610 or SFD-1 activates the pathway and Os01g0194300 or NPR1 inhibit the pathway. Further investigation through wet-lab experiments are in progress to look into suppression/activation of the genes of SAJA signaling in rice plants exposed to abiotic stress.
22359442	Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) is an important food legume crop, particularly for the arid regions including Indian subcontinent. Considering the detrimental effect of drought, temperature and salt stress on crop yield, efforts have been initiated in the direction of developing improved varieties and designing alternate strategies to sustain chickpea production in adverse environmental conditions. Identification of genes that confer abiotic stress tolerance in plants remains a challenge in contemporary plant breeding. The present study focused on the identification of abiotic stress responsive genes in chickpea based on sequence similarity approach exploiting known abiotic stress responsive genes from model crops or other plant species. Ten abiotic stress responsive genes identified in other plants were partially amplified from eight chickpea genotypes and their presence in chickpea was confirmed after sequencing the PCR products. These genes have been functionally validated and reported to play significant role in stress response in model plants like Arabidopsis, rice and other legume crops. Chickpea EST sequences available at NCBI EST database were used for the identification of abiotic stress responsive genes. A total of 8,536 unique coding long sequences were used for identification of chickpea homologues of these abiotic stress responsive genes by sequence similarity search (BLASTN and BLASTX). These genes can be further explored towards achieving the goal of developing superior chickpea varieties providing improved yields under stress conditions using modern molecular breeding approaches.
22359609	The major challenge of cultivating genetically modified (GM) rice (Oryza sativa) at the commercial scale is to prevent the spread of transgenes from GM cultivated rice to its coexisting weedy rice (O. sativa f. spontanea). The strategic development of GM rice with a built-in control mechanism can mitigate transgene spread in weedy rice populations. An RNAi cassette suppressing the expression of the bentazon detoxifying enzyme CYP81A6 was constructed into the T-DNA which contained two tightly linked transgenes expressing the Bt insecticidal protein Cry1Ab and the glyphosate tolerant 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), respectively. GM rice plants developed from this T-DNA were resistant to lepidopteran pests and tolerant to glyphosate, but sensitive to bentazon. The application of bentazon of 2000 mg/L at the rate of 40 mL/m(2), which is approximately the recommended dose for the field application to control common rice weeds, killed all F(2) plants containing the transgenes generated from the Crop-weed hybrids between a GM rice line (CGH-13) and two weedy rice strains (PI-63 and PI-1401). Weedy rice plants containing transgenes from GM rice through gene flow can be selectively killed by the spray of bentazon when a non-GM rice variety is cultivated alternately in a few-year interval. The built-in control mechanism in combination of cropping management is likely to mitigate the spread of transgenes into weedy rice populations.
22359654	LTR retrotransposons are often the most abundant components of plant genomes and can impact gene and genome evolution. Most reported LTR retrotransposons are large elements (>4 kb) and are most often found in heterochromatic (gene poor) regions. We report the smallest LTR retrotransposon found to date, only 292 bp. The element is found in rice, maize, sorghum and other grass genomes, which indicates that it was present in the ancestor of grass species, at least 50-80 MYA. Estimated insertion times, comparisons between sequenced rice lines, and mRNA data indicate that this element may still be active in some genomes. Unlike other LTR retrotransposons, the small LTR retrotransposons (SMARTs) are distributed throughout the genomes and are often located within or near genes with insertion patterns similar to MITEs (miniature inverted repeat transposable elements). Our data suggests that insertions of SMARTs into or near genes can, in a few instances, alter both gene structures and gene expression. Further evidence for a role in regulating gene expression, SMART-specific small RNAs (sRNAs) were identified that may be involved in gene regulation. Thus, SMARTs may have played an important role in genome evolution and genic innovation and may provide a valuable tool for gene tagging systems in grass.
22361108	Any system to compensate countries for reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+) requires a historical reference level against which future performance can be measured. Here we examine the possibilities Sri Lanka, a small forest country with limited data on forest carbon stocks, has to get ready for REDD+. We construct a historical reference level using available forest inventory data combined with updated 2008 and 2009 in situ carbon density data for Sri Lankan forests. Furthermore, we use a combination of qualitative and quantitative data to attribute the clearing of Sri Lankan forests in the latest years for which national forest inventory data are available, 1992-1996, to various proximate drivers and to estimate the opportunity cost of forest conservation. We estimate that baseline deforestation emissions in Sri Lanka amounted to 17MtCO(2)yr(-1) in the 1992-1996 period, but conclude that it is challenging for Sri Lanka to produce a robust and accurate reference level due to the lack of nationally based inventories. We find that the majority of forest clearing (87%) is due to small-scale, rainfed farming, with the two other major drivers being rice and tea cultivation. Further, Sri Lankan revenues from REDD+ participation could be substantial, but they are sensitive to REDD+ policy transaction cost, highly uncertain timber revenues, and particularly the carbon price paid for emission reductions. The latter needs to be higher than $5-10/tCO(2) if there are to be substantial incentives for Sri Lanka to participate in REDD+. There is, however, a large gap in the knowledge of deforestation drivers that needs to be filled if Sri Lanka is to formulate an effective policy response to forest degradation in REDD+. For successful REDD+ implementation in Sri Lanka to happen, technological assistance, readiness assistance, and continued political momentum are crucial.
22361737	The brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens, BPH) is the most serious rice plant pests in Asia. In this study, we performed transcriptome-wide analysis on BPH intestine. We obtained more than 26 million sequencing reads that were then assembled into 53,553 unigenes with a mean size of 388 bp. Based on similarity search with the nucleotide sequences available at NCBI, BPH intestine-specific transcriptome analysis identified 21,405 sequences. Assembled sequences were annotated with gene description, gene ontology and clusters of orthologous group terms. The digestion-, defense- and xenobiotic metabolism-related genes were abundantly detected in the transcripts from BPH intestine. Many novel genes including 33 digestion-related genes, 25 immune responsive genes and 27 detoxification-related genes are first reported here. We investigated the gene expression patterns at the transcript levels in different tissues by quantitative real-time PCR analysis, which revealed that some genes had intestine-specific expression, implicating their potential significance for BPH management.
22361804	We generated transgenic rice plants overexpressing Arabidopsis thaliana ρ-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD), which catalyzes the first committed step in vitamin E biosynthesis. Transgenic grains accumulated marginally higher levels of total tocochromanols than controls, reflecting a small increase in absolute tocotrienol synthesis (but no change in the relative abundance of the α and γ isoforms). In contrast, there was no change in the absolute tocopherol level, but a significant shift from the γ to the α isoform. These data confirm HPPD is not rate limiting, and that increasing flux through the early pathway reveals downstream bottlenecks that act as metabolic tipping points.
22361948	Fine-mapping studies on four QTLs, qDTY(2.1), qDTY(2.2), qDTY(9.1) and qDTY(12.1), for grain yield (GY) under drought were conducted using four different backcross-derived populations screened in 16 experiments from 2006 to 2010. Composite and bayesian interval mapping analyses resolved the originally identified qDTY(2.1) region of 42.3 cM into a segment of 1.6 cM, the qDTY(2.2) region of 31.0 cM into a segment of 6.7 cM, the qDTY(9.1) region of 32.1 cM into two segments of 9.4 and 2.4 cM and the qDTY(12.1) region of 10.6 cM into two segments of 3.1 and 0.4 cM. Two of the four QTLs (qDTY(9.1) and qDTY(12.1)) having effects under varying degrees of stress severity showed the presence of more than one region within the original QTL. The study found the presence of a donor allele at RM262 within qDTY(2.1) and RM24334 within qDTY(9.1) showing a negative effect on GY under drought, indicating the necessity of precise fine mapping of QTL regions before using them in marker-assisted selection (MAS). However, the presence of sub-QTLs together in close vicinity to each other provides a unique opportunity to breeders to introgress such regions together as a unit into high-yielding drought-susceptible varieties through MAS.
22362011	Lead concentration was analyzed in potable water samples (25 well water, 15 borehole water, 7 tap water and 3 stream/river water samples), collected randomly from 5 zones (Abakaliki urban, Azuiyiokwu, Kpirikpiri, Nkaliki and Onuebonyi/rice mill) in Abakaliki metropolis, South-East Nigeria, using Atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The mean ± SD lead levels of Tap, well, borehole and stream/river water were 0.13 ± 0.08, 1.04 ± 0.19, 0.78 ± 0.19 and 0.83 ± 0.22 mg/L, respectively. There was statistically significant difference (p = 0.016) in lead concentrations in well water, compared with tap water. The highest well water lead level was found in Azuiyiokwu whereas the highest level in borehole water was in Abakaliki urban.
22362193	Rice cultivars vary widely in their sensitivity to ultraviolet B (UVB, 280-320 nm). Specifically, many indica rice cultivars from tropical regions, where UVB radiation is higher, are hypersensitive to UVB. Photoreactivation mediated by the photolyase enzyme is the major pathway for repairing UVB-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) in plants. Still, these UVB-sensitive cultivars are less able to repair CPDs through photoreactivation than UVB-resistant cultivars. Here, we produced CPD photolyase-overexpressing transgenic rice plants with higher CPD photolyase activity using UVB-sensitive rice Norin 1 (japonica) and UVB-hypersensitive rice Surjamkhi (indica) as parental line (PL) plants. The results show that these transgenic rice plants were much more resistant to UVB-induced growth inhibition than were PL cultivars. The present findings strongly indicate that UVB-resistance, caused by an increase in CPD photolyase activity, can be achieved in various rice cultivars. However, there was a difference in the level of reduction of UVB-induced growth inhibition among rice cultivars; the level of reduction of growth inhibition in transgenic rice plants generated from the indica strain was lower than that of transgenic rice plants generated from japonica strains. These results indicate that the growth of the UVB-hypersensitive indica strain was strongly inhibited by other factors in addition to CPD levels.
22363438	Bacterial endophytes are ubiquitous to virtually all terrestrial plants. With the increasing appreciation of studies that unravel the mutualistic interactions between plant and microbes, we increasingly value the beneficial functions of endophytes that improve plant growth and development. However, still little is known on the source of established endophytes as well as on how plants select specific microbial communities to establish associations. Here, we used cultivation-dependent and -independent approaches to assess the endophytic bacterrial community of surface-sterilized rice seeds, encompassing two consecutive rice generations. We isolated members of nine bacterial genera. In particular, organisms affiliated with Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Ochrobactrum spp. were isolated from both seed generations. PCR-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) of seed-extracted DNA revealed that approximately 45% of the bacterial community from the first seed generation was found in the second generation as well. In addition, we set up a greenhouse experiment to investigate abiotic and biotic factors influencing the endophytic bacterial community structure. PCR-DGGE profiles performed with DNA extracted from different plant parts showed that soil type is a major effector of the bacterial endophytes. Rice plants cultivated in neutral-pH soil favoured the growth of seed-borne Pseudomonas oryzihabitans and Rhizobium radiobacter, whereas Enterobacter-like and Dyella ginsengisoli were dominant in plants cultivated in low-pH soil. The seed-borne Stenotrophomonas maltophilia was the only conspicuous bacterial endophyte found in plants cultivated in both soils. Several members of the endophytic community originating from seeds were observed in the rhizosphere and surrounding soils. Their impact on the soil community is further discussed.
22363522	Phospholipase A (PLA) is an important group of enzymes responsible for phospholipid hydrolysis in lipid signaling. PLAs have been implicated in abiotic stress signaling and developmental events in various plants species. Genome-wide analysis of PLA superfamily has been carried out in dicot plant Arabidopsis. A comprehensive genome-wide analysis of PLAs has not been presented yet in crop plant rice. A comprehensive bioinformatics analysis identified a total of 31 PLA encoding genes in the rice genome, which are divided into three classes; phospholipase A(1) (PLA(1)), patatin like phospholipases (pPLA) and low molecular weight secretory phospholipase A(2) (sPLA(2)) based on their sequences and phylogeny. A subset of 10 rice PLAs exhibited chromosomal duplication, emphasizing the role of duplication in the expansion of this gene family in rice. Microarray expression profiling revealed a number of PLA members expressing differentially and significantly under abiotic stresses and reproductive development. Comparative expression analysis with Arabidopsis PLAs revealed a high degree of functional conservation between the orthologs in two plant species, which also indicated the vital role of PLAs in stress signaling and plant development across different plant species. Moreover, sub-cellular localization of a few candidates suggests their differential localization and functional role in the lipid signaling. The comprehensive analysis and expression profiling would provide a critical platform for the functional characterization of the candidate PLA genes in crop plants.
22363552	The development of rice (Oryza sativa) seed is closely associated with assimilates storage and plant yield, and is fine controlled by complex regulatory networks. Exhaustive transcriptome analysis of developing rice embryo and endosperm will help to characterize the genes possibly involved in the regulation of seed development and provide clues of yield and quality improvement. Our analysis showed that genes involved in metabolism regulation, hormone response and cellular organization processes are predominantly expressed during rice development. Interestingly, 191 transcription factor (TF)-encoding genes are predominantly expressed in seed and 59 TFs are regulated during seed development, some of which are homologs of seed-specific TFs or regulators of Arabidopsis seed development. Gene co-expression network analysis showed these TFs associated with multiple cellular and metabolism pathways, indicating a complex regulation of rice seed development. Further, by employing a cold-resistant cultivar Hanfeng (HF), genome-wide analyses of seed transcriptome at normal and low temperature reveal that rice seed is sensitive to low temperature at early stage and many genes associated with seed development are down-regulated by low temperature, indicating that the delayed development of rice seed by low temperature is mainly caused by the inhibition of the development-related genes. The transcriptional response of seed and seedling to low temperature is different, and the differential expressions of genes in signaling and metabolism pathways may contribute to the chilling tolerance of HF during seed development. These results provide informative clues and will significantly improve the understanding of rice seed development regulation and the mechanism of cold response in rice seed.
22363605	Black rice (Oryza sativa L. Japonica) contains high levels of anthocyanins in the pericarp and is considered an effective health-promoting food. Several studies have identified the molecular species of anthocyanins in black rice, but information about the localization of each anthocyanin species is limited because methodologies for investigating the localization such as determining specific antibodies to anthocyanin, have not yet been developed Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization imaging mass spectrometry (MALDI-IMS) is a suitable tool for investigating the localization of metabolites. In this study, we identified 7 species of anthocyanin monoglycosides and 2 species of anthocyanin diglycosides in crude extracts from black rice by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) analysis. We also analyzed black rice sections by MALDI-IMS and found 2 additional species of anthocyanin pentosides and revealed different localization patterns of anthocyanin species composed of different sugar moieties. Anthocyanin species composed of a pentose moiety (cyanidin-3-O-pentoside and petunidin-3-O-pentoside) were localized in the entire pericarp, whereas anthocyanin species composed of a hexose moiety (cyanidin-3-O-hexoside and peonidin-3-O-hexoside) were focally localized in the dorsal pericarp. These results indicate that anthocyanin species composed of different sugar moieties exhibit different localization patterns in the pericarp of black rice. This is the first detailed investigation into the localization of molecular species of anthocyanins by MALDI-IMS.
22363621	Grain size is a major yield component in rice, and partly controlled by the sizes of the lemma and palea. Molecular mechanisms controlling the sizes of these organs largely remain unknown. In this study, we show that an antagonistic pair of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins is involved in determining rice grain length by controlling cell length in the lemma/palea. Overexpression of an atypical bHLH, named POSITIVE REGULATOR OF GRAIN LENGTH 1 (PGL1), in lemma/palea increased grain length and weight in transgenic rice. PGL1 is an atypical non-DNA-binding bHLH and assumed to function as an inhibitor of a typical DNA-binding bHLH through heterodimerization. We identified the interaction partner of PGL1 and named it ANTAGONIST OF PGL1 (APG). PGL1 and APG interacted in vivo and localized in the nucleus. As expected, silencing of APG produced the same phenotype as overexpression of PGL1, suggesting antagonistic roles for the two genes. Transcription of two known grain-length-related genes, GS3 and SRS3, was largely unaffected in the PGL1-overexpressing and APG-silenced plants. Observation of the inner epidermal cells of lemma revealed that are caused by increased cell length. PGL1-APG represents a new grain length and weight-controlling pathway in which APG is a negative regulator whose function is inhibited by PGL1.
22364153	Burkholderia glumae is a rice pathogenic bacterium that causes bacterial panicle blight. Some strains of this pathogen produce dark brown pigments when grown on casamino-acid peptone glucose (CPG) agar medium. A pigment-positive and highly virulent strain of B. glumae, 411gr-6, was randomly mutagenized with mini-Tn5gus, and the resulting mini-Tn5gus derivatives showing altered pigmentation phenotypes were screened on CPG agar plates to identify the genetic elements governing the pigmentation of B. glumae. In this study, a novel two-component regulatory system (TCRS) composed of the PidS sensor histidine kinase and the PidR response regulator was identified as an essential regulatory factor for pigmentation. Notably, the PidS/PidR TCRS was also required for the elicitation of the hypersensitive response on tobacco leaves, indicating the dependence of the hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (Hrp) type III secretion system of B. glumae on this regulatory factor. In addition, B. glumae mutants defective in the PidS/PidR TCRS showed less production of the phytotoxin, toxoflavin, and less virulence on rice panicles and onion bulbs relative to the parental strain, 411gr-6. The presence of highly homologous PidS and PidR orthologues in other Burkholderia species suggests that PidS/PidR-family TCRSs may exert the same or similar functions in different Burkholderia species, including both plant and animal pathogens.
22364373	Economically important crops, such as maize, wheat, rice, barley, and other food crops are affected by even small changes in water potential at important growth stages. Developing a comprehensive understanding of host response to drought requires a global view of the complex mechanisms involved. Research on drought tolerance has generally been conducted using discipline-specific approaches. However, plant stress response is complex and interlinked to a point where discipline-specific approaches do not give a complete global analysis of all the interlinked mechanisms. Systems biology perspective is needed to understand genome-scale networks required for building long-lasting drought resistance. Network maps have been constructed by integrating multiple functional genomics data with both model plants, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, Lotus japonicus, and Medicago truncatula, and various food crops, such as rice and soybean. Useful functional genomics data have been obtained from genome-wide comparative transcriptome and proteome analyses of drought responses from different crops. This integrative approach used by many groups has led to identification of commonly regulated signaling pathways and genes following exposure to drought. Combination of functional genomics and systems biology is very useful for comparative analysis of other food crops and has the ability to develop stable food systems worldwide. In addition, studying desiccation tolerance in resurrection plants will unravel how combination of molecular genetic and metabolic processes interacts to produce a resurrection phenotype. Systems biology-based approaches have helped in understanding how these individual factors and mechanisms (biochemical, molecular, and metabolic) "interact" spatially and temporally. Signaling network maps of such interactions are needed that can be used to design better engineering strategies for improving drought tolerance of important crop species.
22364828	Aqueous methanol extracts of the traditional rice (Oryza sativa) variety Awaakamai, which is known to have the greatest allelopathic activity among Japanese traditional rice varieties, inhibited the growth of roots and shoots of cress (Lepidium sativum), lettuce (Lactuca sativa), timothy (Phleum pratense), Digitaria sanguinalis, Lolium multiflorum and Echinochloa crus-galli. Increasing the extract concentration increased the inhibition, suggesting that the extract of Awaakamai contains growth inhibitory substances. The extract of Awaakamai was purified and two main growth inhibitory substances were isolated and determined by spectral data as blumenol A and grasshopper ketone. Blumenol A and grasshopper ketone, respectively, inhibited the growth of cress shoots and roots at concentrations greater than 10 and 30 μmol/L. The concentrations required for 50% growth inhibition on cress roots and shoots were 84 and 27 μmol/L, respectively, for blumenol A, and 185 and 76 μmol/L, respectively, for grasshopper ketone. These results suggest that blumenol A and grasshopper ketone may contribute to the growth inhibitory effect of Awaakamai and may play an important role in the allelopathy of Awaakamai.
22365718	A mesophilic lignocellulolytic microbial consortium BYND-5, established by successive subcultivation, was applied to enhance the biogas production. The degradation efficiency of BYND-5 for rice straw was more than 49.0 ± 1.8% after 7 days of cultivation at 30°C. Various organic compounds, including acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid and glycerin were detected during biodegradation. The diversity analysis of BYND-5 was conducted by ARDRA (Amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis) of the 16S rDNA clone library. Results indicated that bacterial groups represented in the clone library were the Firmicutes (5.96%), the Bacteroidetes (40.0%), Deferribacteres (8.94%), Proteobacteria (16.17%), Lentisphaerae (2.13%), Fibrobacteraceae (1.7%), and uncultured bacterium (25.1%). Additionally, the enhancement of biogas yield and methane content was directly related to the pretreatment with BYND-5. The microbial community identified herein is potential candidate consortium for the degradation of waste lignocellulose and enhancement of biogas production under the mesophilic temperature conditions.
22366093	The triangle of relationship between human beings, animals and plants has existed for ages, and has given rise to intense-relationships and consequently rich traditions of ethnoveterinary knowledge throughout the world. The predominantly rural population and the strong agricultural base have provided unique situation for rich ethnoveterinary practices in the study area. The present study was conducted in the Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir between 2007 and 2009 to provide list of the important plants of the region for further phytochemical and pharmacological studies, and to prepare inventory of the ethnoveterinary practices for the future generations. Direct interview of 78 informants was conducted and the information gathered was analyzed for two quantitative methods viz. informant consensus factor (ICF) and use-value (UV). The characteristics of ethnoveterinary plants and practices were also documented. A total of 72 plants were used to cure 33 common ailments of milk yielding animals of Kathua district. Fabaceae (7 species) was the most represented family, along with Poaceae (6 species). Leaves (27.2%) were the most frequently used plant parts, herbs (48.6%) the most frequently used life-form and wild flora (58.3%) the most used source for the ethnoveterinary practices. The highest ICF was reported for urological disorders (0.95) and lowest for nutritional diseases (0.80). The values of ICF were generally on the higher side which shows that the informants share the knowledge about the ailment among themselves. The important ethnoveterinary plant species on the basis of use-values were: Brassica campestris, Saccharun officinarum, Emblica officinalis, Trachyspermum ammi, Asparagus adscendens, Musa paradisica, Oryza sativa, Curcuma longa, Azadirachta indica, Tinospora cordifolia and Tamarindus indica. High diversity of ethnoveterinary plants were found to cure the common milk yielding animals of Kathua district. Further phytochemical and pharmacological studies are required to ascertain their chemical nature for the betterment of the locals and farmers, and commercial utilization of this knowledge.
22366304	The FK506-binding proteins (FKBPs) belong to the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase (PPIase) superfamily, and have been implicated in a wide spectrum of biological processes, including protein folding, hormone signaling, plant growth, and stress responses. Genome-wide structural and evolutionary analyses of the entire FKBP gene family have been conducted in Arabidopsis and rice. In the present study, a genome-wide analysis was performed to identify all maize FKBP genes. The availability of complete maize genome sequences allowed for the identification of 24 FKBP genes. Chromosomal locations in the maize genome were determined and the protein domain and motif organization of ZmFKBPs analyzed. The phylogenetic relationships between maize FKBPs were also assessed. The expression profiles of ZmFKBP genes were measured under different environmental conditions and revealed distinct ZmFKBP gene expression patterns under heat, cold, salt, and drought stress. These data not only contribute to a better understanding of the complex regulation of the maize FKBP gene family, but also provide evidence supporting the role of FKBPs in multiple signaling pathways involved in stress responses. This investigation may provide valuable information for further research on stress tolerance in plants and potential strategies for enhancing maize survival under stressful conditions.
22366610	Cassava pulp residue and rice straw were used as a precursor for pretreatment with ionic liquids to study the effects of pretreatment conditions on product yield and properties. Cassava pulp residue is a potential biomass in the bioconversion process due to it requiring mild pretreatment conditions while providing a high sugar conversion. The maximum sugar conversion and lignin extraction are attained from pretreatment of biomasses with particle size of <38 μm and ionic liquid of 1-Ethyl-3-methylimidazolium acetate at 120°C for 24h. The effectiveness of ionic liquid for biomass pretreatment process follows the sequence: 1-Ethyl-3-methylimidazolium acetate>1-Ethyl-3-methylimidazolium diethyl phosphate>1,3-Dimethylimidazolium methyl sulfate. The increase of pretreatment temperature from 25 to 120°C and decrease of biomass particle size renders higher sugar conversion, lignin extraction and lower crystallinity index. However, pretreatment at temperatures higher than 120°C shows a sharp decline of regenerated biomass yield, sugar conversion and lignin extraction and giving higher crystallinity index at pretreatment temperature of 180°C.
22367056	Tocotrienol (T3) is an important phytonutrient found in rice bran and palm oil. T3 has gained much interest for lipid lowering effects, especially for cholesterol (Cho) by inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase. Also, usefulness of T3 in improving triglyceride (TG) profiles has been suggested, but its efficacy and mechanism have been unclear. We investigated how T3 decreases TG concentration in cultured cells and animals. In a cell culture study, human hepatoma cells (HepG2) were incubated in a control or a fat (1 mM oleic acid)-loaded medium containing γ-T3 for 24 h. We found that 10-15 μM γ-T3 inhibited cellular TG accumulation significantly, especially in the fat-loaded medium. This manifestation was supported by mRNA and protein expressions of fatty acid synthase, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1, and cytochrome P450 3A4. In concordance with these results, rice bran T3 supplementation to F344 rats (5 or 10 mg T3/day/rat) receiving a high fat diet for 3 weeks significantly reduced TG and the oxidative stress marker (phospholipid hydroperoxides, PLOOH) in the liver and blood plasma. T3 supplementation did not show changes in the Cho level. These results provided new information and the mechanism of the TG-lowering effect of T3. The lipid lowering effects of dietary T3 might be mediated by the reduction of TG synthesis.
22367482	A T-DNA insertional mutant OsTEF1 of rice gives 60-80% reduced tillering, retarded growth of seminal roots, and sensitivity to salt stress compared to wild type Basmati 370. The insertion occurred in a gene encoding a transcription elongation factor homologous to yeast elf1, on chromosome 2 of rice. Detailed transcriptomic profiling of OsTEF1 revealed that mutation in the transcription elongation factor differentially regulates the expression of more than 100 genes with known function and finely regulates tillering process in rice by inducing the expression of cytochrome P450. Along with different transcription factors, several stress associated genes were also affected due to a single insertion. In silico analysis of the TEF1 protein showed high conservation among different organisms. This transcription elongation factor predicted to interact with other proteins that directly or indirectly positively regulate tillering in rice.
22367483	Chromosomal segments from wild rice species Oryza rufipogon, introgressed into an elite indica rice restorer line (KMR3) using molecular markers, resulted in significant increase in yield. Here we report the transcriptome analysis of flag leaves and fully emerged young panicles of one of the high yielding introgression lines IL50-7 in comparison to KMR3. A 66-fold upregulated gene Os11Gsk, which showed no transcript in KMR3 was highly expressed in O. rufipogon and IL50-7. A 5-kb genomic region including Os11Gsk and its flanking regions could be PCR amplified only from IL50-7, O. rufipogon, japonica varieties of rice-Nipponbare and Kitaake but not from the indica varieties, KMR3 and Taichung Native-1. Three sister lines of IL50-7 yielding higher than KMR3 showed presence of Os11Gsk, whereas the gene was absent in three other ILs from the same cross having lower yield than KMR3, indicating an association of the presence of Os11Gsk with high yield. Southern analysis showed additional bands in the genomic DNA of O. rufipogon and IL50-7 with Os11Gsk probe. Genomic sequence analysis of ten highly co-expressed differentially regulated genes revealed that two upregulated genes in IL50-7 were derived from O. rufipogon and most of the downregulated genes were either from KMR3 or common to KMR3, IL50-7, and O. rufipogon. Thus, we show that Os11Gsk is a wild rice-derived gene introduced in KMR3 background and increases yield either by regulating expression of functional genes sharing homology with it or by causing epigenetic modifications in the introgression line.
22367534	A multigenic family of self-glycosylating proteins named reversibly glycosylated polypeptides, designated as RGPs, have been usually associated with carbohydrate metabolism, although they are an enigma both at the functional, as well as at the structural level. In this work, we used biochemical approaches to demonstrate that complex formation is linked to rice plant development, in which class 1 Oryza sativa RGP (OsRGP) would be involved in an early stage of growing plants, while class 2 OsRGP would be associated with a late stage linked to an active polysaccharide synthesis that occurs during the elongation of plant. Here, a further investigation of the complex formation of the Solanum tuberosum RGP (StRGP) was performed. Results showed that disulfide bonds are at least partially responsible for maintaining the oligomeric protein structure, so that the nonreduced StRGP protein showed an apparent higher molecular weight and a lower radioglycosylation of the monomer with respect to its reduced form. Hydrophobic cluster analysis and secondary structure prediction revealed that class 2 RGPs no longer maintained the Rossman fold described for class 1 RGP. A 3D structure of the StRGP protein resolved by homology modeling supports the possibility of intercatenary disulfide bridges formed by exposed cysteines residues C79, C303 and C251 and they are most probably involved in complex formation occurring into the cell cytoplasm.
22367872	Rice is the model plant for monocotyledons. Since the completion of the high-quality sequence of its genome, the international community is deploying efforts to identify the function of the 30-40,000 nontransposable element genes of rice. These efforts comprise the creation of large collections of rice mutants accessible to the international scientific community. In addition to loss of function mutants, insertion mutagenesis using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and engineered mobile elements allows the identification of genes through enhancer or gene trapping or activation tagging. The maize transposable element Ac-Ds is known to be active in rice since the early 1990s and it does not interfere with endogenous rice transposons. This is the guaranty that induced mutation obtained with the mobility of the Ds element will be stable when the source of Ac transposase is removed from the mutated genome. In this paper, we describe single- or double-component T-DNA constructs that have been used to introduce a functional Ac-Ds system in rice and allowed the generation and selection of different type of Ds insertion mutations in the rice genome.
22368182	Phylogenetic analysis was conducted on 9 kDa non-specific lipid transfer protein (nsLTP) genes from nine plant species. Each of the five classified types in angiosperms exhibited eight conserved cysteine patterns. The most abundant nsLTP genes fell into the type I category, which was particularly enriched in a grass-specific lineage of clade I.1. Six pairs of tandem copies of nsLTP genes on the distal region of rice chromosomes 11 and 12 were well-preserved under concerted evolution, which was not observed in sorghum. The transgenic promoter-reporter assay revealed that both rice and sorghum nsLTP genes of type I displayed a relatively conserved expression feature in the epidermis of growing tissue, supporting its functional roles in cutin synthesis or defence against phytopathogens. For type I, the frequent expression in the stigma and seed are indicative of functional involvement in pistil-pollen interactions and seed development. By way of contrast, several type V genes were observed, mainly in the vascular bundle of the rosette as well as the young shoots, which might be related with vascular tissue differentiation or defence signalling. Compared with sorghum, the highly redundant tissue-specific expression pattern among members of rice nsLTP genes in clade I.1 suggests that concerted evolution via gene conversion favours the preservation of crucial expression motifs via the homogenization of proximal promoter sequences under high selection constraints. However, extensive regulatory subfunctionalization might also have occurred under relative low selection constraints, resulting in functional divergence at the expression level.
22368778	Metals like manganese (Mn) and iron (Fe) are essential for metabolism, while cadmium (Cd) is toxic for virtually all living organisms. Understanding the transport of these metals is important for breeding better crops. We have identified that OsNRAMP5 contributes to Mn, Fe and Cd transport in rice. OsNRAMP5 expression was restricted to roots epidermis, exodermis, and outer layers of the cortex as well as in tissues around the xylem. OsNRAMP5 localized to the plasma membrane, and complemented the growth of yeast strains defective in Mn, Fe, and Cd transport. OsNRAMP5 RNAi (OsNRAMP5i) plants accumulated less Mn in the roots, and less Mn and Fe in shoots, and xylem sap. The suppression of OsNRAMP5 promoted Cd translocation to shoots, highlighting the importance of this gene for Cd phytoremediation. These data reveal that OsNRAMP5 contributes to Mn, Cd, and Fe transport in rice and is important for plant growth and development.
22369364	Despite increasing knowledge of allantoin as a phytochemical involved in rice, relatively little is known about its distribution and function in rice grains. In this study, allantoin was quantified in 15 Chinese rice grains, and its contents varied with grain fraction, cultivar, and genotype. Bran always had the highest allantoin level, followed by brown rice and milled rice. Hull contained the lowest allantoin content. Allantoin in japonica bran ranged from 70 to 171 μg/g but rarely exceeded 100 μg/g in indica bran. There was a positive relationship between allantoin level in grains and seedling survival in seedbeds under low temperature or water deficit. Exogenous allantoin stimulated plant growth, increased soluble sugar and free proline contents, and decreased malondialdehyde content in rice seedlings. However, allantoin did not show any antioxidant activity through free radical-scavenging capacity, reducing power, linoleic acid peroxidation inhibition, and chelating activity. The results suggest that allantoin in rice grains may play some roles in providing plant stress protection but not serving as a beneficial health antioxidant.
22369516	Polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) is a bacterial polyester that has properties similar to some petrochemically produced plastics. Plant-based production has the potential to make this biorenewable plastic highly competitive with petrochemical-based plastics. We previously reported that transgenic sugarcane produced PHB at levels as high as 1.8% leaf dry weight without penalty to biomass accumulation, suggesting scope for improving PHB production in this species. In this study, we used different plant and viral promoters, in combination with multigene or single-gene constructs to increase PHB levels. Promoters tested included the maize and rice polyubiquitin promoters, the maize chlorophyll A/B-binding protein promoter and a Cavendish banana streak badnavirus promoter. At the seedling stage, the highest levels of polymer were produced in sugarcane plants when the Cavendish banana streak badnavirus promoter was used. However, in all cases, this promoter underwent silencing as the plants matured. The rice Ubi promoter enabled the production of PHB at levels similar to the maize Ubi promoter. The maize chlorophyll A/B-binding protein promoter enabled the production of PHB to levels as high as 4.8% of the leaf dry weight, which is approximately 2.5 times higher than previously reported levels in sugarcane. This is the first time that this promoter has been tested in sugarcane. The highest PHB-producing lines showed phenotypic differences to the wild-type parent, including reduced biomass and slight chlorosis.
22369597	We report here the molecular and phenotypic features of a library of 31,562 insertion lines generated in the model japonica cultivar Nipponbare of rice (Oryza sativa L.), called Oryza Tag Line (OTL). Sixteen thousand eight hundred and fourteen T-DNA and 12,410 Tos17 discrete insertion sites have been characterized in these lines. We estimate that 8686 predicted gene intervals--i.e. one-fourth to one-fifth of the estimated rice nontransposable element gene complement--are interrupted by sequence-indexed T-DNA (6563 genes) and/or Tos17 (2755 genes) inserts. Six hundred and forty-three genes are interrupted by both T-DNA and Tos17 inserts. High quality of the sequence indexation of the T2 seed samples was ascertained by several approaches. Field evaluation under agronomic conditions of 27,832 OTL has revealed that 18.2% exhibit at least one morphophysiological alteration in the T1 progeny plants. Screening 10,000 lines for altered response to inoculation by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae allowed to observe 71 lines (0.7%) developing spontaneous lesions simulating disease mutants and 43 lines (0.4%) exhibiting an enhanced disease resistance or susceptibility. We show here that at least 3.5% (four of 114) of these alterations are tagged by the mutagens. The presence of allelic series of sequence-indexed mutations in a gene among OTL that exhibit a convergent phenotype clearly increases the chance of establishing a linkage between alterations and inserts. This convergence approach is illustrated by the identification of the rice ortholog of AtPHO2, the disruption of which causes a lesion-mimic phenotype owing to an over-accumulation of phosphate, in nine lines bearing allelic insertions.
22370414	During the last decades, high population growth and export-oriented economics in Vietnam have led to a tremendous intensification of rice production, which in turn has significantly increased the amount of pesticides applied in rice cropping systems. Since pesticides are toxic by design, there is a natural concern on the impact of their presence in the environment on human health and environmental quality. The present study was designed to examine the water regime and fate of pesticides (fenitrothion, dimethoate) during two consecutive rice crop seasons in combined paddy rice-fish pond farming systems in northern Vietnam. Major results revealed that 5 and 41% (dimethoate), and 1 and 17% (fenitrothion) of the applied mass of pesticides were lost from the paddy field to the adjacent fish pond during spring and summer crop seasons, respectively. The decrease of pesticide concentration in paddy surface water was very rapid with dissipation half-life values of 0.3 to 0.8 and 0.2 d for dimethoate and fenitrothion, respectively. Key factors controlling the transport of pesticides were water solubility and paddy water management parameters, such as hydraulic residence time and water holding period. Risk assessment indicates that the exposure to toxic levels of pesticides for aquaculture (,) is significant, at least shortly after pesticide application.
22370743	Plant Lipoxygenases (LOX) are known to play major role in plant immunity by providing front-line defense against pathogen-induced injury. To verify this, we isolated a full-length OsLOX3 gene and also 12 OsLOX cDNA clones from Oryza sativa indica (cultivar Pusa Basmati 1). We have examined the role played by LOXs in plant development and during attack by blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. Gene expression, promoter region analysis, and biochemical and protein structure analysis of isolated OsLOX3 revealed significant homology with LOX super family. Protein sequence comparison of OsLOXs revealed high levels of homology when compared with japonica rice (up to100%) and Arabidopsis (up to 64%). Isolated LOX3 gene and 12 OsLOX cDNAs contained the catalytic LOX domains much required for oxygen binding and synthesis of oxylipins. Amino acid composition, protein secondary structure, and promoter region analysis (with abundance of motifs CGTCA and TGACG) support the role of OsLOX3 gene in providing resistance to diseases in rice plants. OsLOX3 gene expression analysis of root, shoot, flag leaf, and developing and mature seed revealed organ specific patterns during rice plant development and gave evidence to association between tissue location and physiological roles played by individual OsLOXs. Increased defense activity of oxylipins was observed as demonstrated by PCR amplification of OsLOX3 gene and upon inoculation with virulent strains of M. grisea and ectopic application of methyl jasmonate in the injured leaf tissue in adult rice plants.
22370784	Peniciside, a new fernene triterpenoid glycoside, was isolated from the EtOAc extract of the solid-state fermented rice culture of the fungus Penicillium sp. 169. Its structure was elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic analysis, and the absolute configuration was determined by X-ray crystallographic analysis and chemical methods. Peniciside is the first example of a fernene triterpenoid glycoside with two hydroxyls at C-19 and C-20.
22370941	Fusarium species section Liseola namely F. fujikuroi, F. proliferatum, F. andiyazi, F. verticillioides, and F. sacchari are well-known plant pathogens on rice, sugarcane and maize. In the present study, restriction analysis of the intergenic spacer regions (IGS) was used to characterize the five Fusarium species isolated from rice, sugarcane and maize collected from various locations in Peninsular Malaysia. From the analysis, and based on restriction patterns generated by the six restriction enzymes, Bsu151, BsuRI, EcoRI, Hin6I, HinfI, and MspI, 53 haplotypes were recorded among 74 isolates. HinfI showed the most variable restriction patterns (with 11 patterns), while EcoRI showed only three patterns. Although a high level of variation was observed, it was possible to characterize closely related species and isolates from different species. UPGMA cluster analysis showed that the isolates of Fusarium from the same species were grouped together regardless of the hosts. We conclude that restriction analysis of the IGS regions can be used to characterize Fusarium species section Liseola and to discriminate closely related species as well as to clarify their taxonomic position.
22371064	Ethanol conversion from rice straw using butanone and acetaldehyde dilute solution explosions was evaluated based on the optimization of pure water explosion. To decrease residual inhibitor content, the exploded slurry was dried and investigated at different temperature. Using a 0.9-mol/L butanone solution explosion, with the explosion pressure set at 3.1 MPa, the residence time at 7 min, the dried rice straw-to-water ratio at 1:3 (w/w), and the exploded slurry drying temperuture at 90 °C for 8 h, the yields of total sugar, glucose, and xylose were 85%, 88%, 82% (w/w), respectively, and the ethanol productivity was 26.0 g/100 g rice straw dry matter. Moreover, 0.5-mol/L acetaldehyde dilute solution explosion improved the efficiency of enzymatic hydrolysis (EH) and simultaneous saccharification and co-fermentation (SSCF), and the residual inhibitors had negligible effects on EH and SSCF after detoxification by drying. The results suggested that compared with pure water explosions, the use of butanone and of acetaldehyde dilute solution explosions lowered the explosive temperature and improved the sugar yield, although relative crystallinity of the rice straw dry matter was increased after the explosion.
22371255	WRKY transcription factors participate in diverse physiological and developmental processes in plants. They have highly conserved WRKYGQK amino acid sequences in their N-termini, followed by the novel zinc-finger-like motifs, Cys₂His₂ or Cys₂HisCys. To date, numerous WRKY genes have been identified and characterized in a number of herbaceous species. Survey and characterization of WRKY genes in a ligneous species would facilitate a better understanding of the evolutionary processes and functions of this gene family. In this study, 104 poplar WRKY genes (PtWRKY) were identified in the latest poplar genome sequence. According to their structural features, the predicted members were divided into the previously defined groups I-III, as described in rice. In addition, chromosomal localization of the genes demonstrated that there might be WRKY gene hot spots in 2.3 Mb regions on chromosome 14. Furthermore, approximately 83% (86 out of 104) WRKY genes participated in gene duplication events, including 69% (29 out of 42) gene pairs which exhibited segmental duplication. Using semi-quantitative RT-PCR, the expression patterns of subgroup III genes were investigated under different stresses [cold, drought, salinity and salicylic acid (SA)]. The data revealed that these genes presented different expression levels in response to various stress conditions. Expression analysis exhibited PtWRKY76 gene induced markedly in 0.1 mM SA or 25% PEG-6000 treatment. The results presented here provide a fundamental clue for cloning specific function genes in further studies and applications. This study identified 104 poplar WRKY genes and demonstrated WRKY gene hot spots on chromosome 14. Furthermore, semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed variable stress responses in subgroup III.
22372440	During post-embryonic shoot development, new meristems are initiated in the axils of leaves. They produce secondary axes of growth that determine morphological plasticity and reproductive efficiency in higher plants. In this study, we describe the role of the bHLH-protein-encoding Arabidopsis gene REGULATOR OF AXILLARY MERISTEM FORMATION (ROX), which is the ortholog of the branching regulators LAX PANICLE1 (LAX1) in rice and barren stalk1 (ba1) in maize. rox mutants display compromised axillary bud formation during vegetative shoot development, and combination of rox mutants with mutations in RAX1 and LAS, two key regulators of axillary meristem initiation, enhances their branching defects. In contrast to lax1 and ba1, flower development is unaffected in rox mutants. Over-expression of ROX leads to formation of accessory side shoots. ROX mRNA accumulates at the adaxial boundary of leaf and flower primordia. However, in the vegetative phase, axillary meristems initiate after ROX expression has terminated, suggesting an indirect role for ROX in meristem formation. During vegetative development, ROX expression is dependent on RAX1 and LAS activity, and all three genes act in concert to modulate axillary meristem formation.
22374558	To examine the association between rice intake, staple food patterns (measured by percentage of rice in staple food (PRS)), weight change and the risk of the metabolic syndrome development. We followed 1231 adults, aged 20 and older, from 2002 to 2007. Food intake was assessed using a food frequency questionnaire. Body weight, height, waist circumference, blood pressure and fasting plasma glucose and lipids were measured. The metabolic syndrome was defined according to the International Diabetes Federation definition. Rice consumption of >=401 g/day was associated with less weight gain (-2.08 kg, 95%CI: -2.75, -1.41, p<0.001), and 42% less risk of hypertension, as compared to rice consumption of <200 g/day (p=0.024). A strong linear association between rice intake and hyperglycemia was found: the odd ratios for incident hyperglycemia across rice intake <200, 201-400, >=401 g/day were: 1, 1.96, 2.50 (95%CI: 1.37, 4.57) (p for trend 0.005). A positive association between rice intake and incident abnormal high-density lipoprotein was observed. There was no association between rice intake and incident high triglycerides. Every 10% increase in PRS was associated with a 0.28 kg less in weight gain, 22% increase in hyperglycemia risk and 9% decrease in hypertension risk. Rice intake and PRS were not associated with the risk of the metabolic syndrome. Rice intake and PRS were inversely associated with weight gain, and PRS was inversely associated with hypertension, but positively associated with fasting blood glucose elevation. No association between rice intake and PRS with the metabolic syndrome was found.
22374563	Childhood asthma has rapidly increased over the past few decades, possibly due to changes in lifestyle and dietary patterns. We aimed to determine associations between dietary patterns and asthma in schoolchildren in Taiwan. The Nutrition and Health survey in Taiwan Elementary School Children was carried out by using a multi-staged complex sampling design. A total of 2,082 elementary school children with complete data on dietary, lifestyle, demographics and asthma were included in the analysis. We used a Chinese version of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood questionnaire to generate an asthma symptom score and to define asthma outcomes. Dietary intake was assessed by a food frequency questionnaire. Reduced rank regression (RRR) was used to identify the dietary pattern associated with the asthma symptoms score. Asthma outcomes included; current asthma, current severe asthma, nocturnal cough, exercise-induced wheeze and asthma ever. The RRR-derived dietary pattern was characterized by high consumption of fast foods, high-fat snacks, candy, and cheese; and low consumption of fruit, vegetables and rice. The RRR-derived dietary pattern was associated with an increased risk of current asthma (OR [95% CI]) (2.42 [1.19-4.93] for Q4/Q1, p-for-trend=0.01), current severe asthma (3.21 [1.11-9.25] for Q3/Q1, 4.45 [1.59-12.5] for Q4/Q1; p-for-trend=0.003), and nocturnal cough (1.79 [1.06-3.05] for Q2/Q1, 1.74 [1.02-2.97] for Q3/Q1, 1.82 [1.07-3.11] for Q4/Q1; p-for-trend=0.049). Our results suggest that a diet with a high intake of fat and simple sugars and low intake of fruit, vegetables and rice is associated with an increased risk of asthma in Taiwanese children.
22374808	This research is aimed at evaluating the effect of rice grains submitted to different processing (white or parboiling) on performance and biological responses in rat. Male Wistar rats were fed with diets containing white or parboiled rice grains of the cultivar IRGA 417. Wet and dry faecal production, fasting serum glucose concentration, serum total protein and organs' weights as liver, kidney and epididymal fat pads were not affected by processing. The animals in the treatment with parboiled rice showed higher body weight gain, feed intake, nitrogen excretion, serum triglycerides, uric acid levels and pancreas weight and lower feed conversion, faecal pH, albumin and serum HDL cholesterol, when compared with the treatment with white rice. The results obtained in this work allow the conclusion that structural change of rice components caused by parboiling results in variations in different essential body metabolic parameters, such as body weight gain, gastrointestinal function and glycaemic control.
22375277	The effect of food introduction timing on the development of food allergy remains controversial. We sought to examine whether the presence of childhood eczema changes the relationship between timing of food introduction and food allergy. The analysis includes 960 children recruited as part of a family-based food allergy cohort. Food allergy was determined by objective symptoms developing within 2 hours of ingestion, corroborated by skin prick testing/specific IgE. Physician diagnosis of eczema and timing of formula and solid food introduction were obtained by standardized interview. Cox Regression analysis provided hazard ratios for the development of food allergy for the same subgroups. Logistic regression models estimated the association of eczema and formula/food introduction with the risk of food allergy, individually and jointly. Of the 960 children, 411 (42.8%) were allergic to 1 or more foods and 391 (40.7%) had eczema. Children with eczema had a 8.4-fold higher risk of food allergy (OR, 95% CI: 8.4, 5.9-12.1). Among all children, later (>6 months) formula and rice/wheat cereal introduction lowered the risk of food allergy. In joint analysis, children without eczema who had later formula (OR, 95% CI: 0.5, 0.3-0.9) and later (>1 year) solid food (OR, 95% CI: 0.5, 0.3-0.95) introduction had a lower risk of food allergy. Among children with eczema, timing of food or formula introduction did not modify the risk of developing food allergy. Later food introduction was protective for food allergy in children without eczema but did not alter the risk of developing food allergy in children with eczema.
22375835	The endophytic bacterial communities of the three most important rice varieties cultivated in Uruguay were compared by a multiphasic approach. Leaves of mature plants grown in field experiments for two consecutive crop seasons were studied. No significant differences were found in the heterotrophic bacterial density for the three varieties. Pantoea ananatis and Pseudomonas syringae constituted 51% of the total of the isolates. These species were always present regardless of the variety or the season. Molecular analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene was performed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and cloning. T-RFLP analysis revealed that bacterial communities grouped according to the variety, although the three varieties presented communities that showed 74% or higher similarities. Brevundimonas, the dominant genus in the clone library (18% of the clones), which might be present in all varieties according to T-RFLP profiles, was not recovered by cultivation. Conversely, bacteria from the genus Pseudomonas were not detected in the clone library. These results indicate that communities established in leaves of physiologically different rice varieties were highly similar and composed by a reduced group of strongly associated and persistent bacteria that were partially recovered by cultivation.
22377478	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of a 2% (v/v) addition of biochar on the quality of a composting mixture prepared with poultry manure and different local organic wastes (rice husk and apple pomace). Compost quality was evaluated in terms of typical stabilisation indices, the microbial biomass and selected enzymatic activities related to the C, N and P cycles. The main effects of biochar were a 10% increase in C captured by humic substance extraction and a 30% decrease of water-soluble C, due to an enhanced degradation rate and/or the sorption of these labile compounds into the biochar. The urease, phosphatase and polyphenol oxidase activities of the biochar-blended compost were enhanced by 30-40% despite the lower amount of microbial biomass. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis revealed a higher diversity of fungi in biochar-amended compost, suggesting a change in microbial composition compared to the unamended compost.
22378015	Agricultural solid residues are a potential renewable energy source. Rice harvesting and production in Sancti Spíritus province, Cuba, currently generates residues without an environmentally sustainable disposal route. Rice residues (rice straw, rice husk and rice residues from the drying process) are potentially an important carbon source for anaerobic digestion. For this paper, rice residues were placed for 36 days retention time in anaerobic batch reactor environments at both mesophilic (37 °C) and thermophilic (55 °C) conditions. Biogas and methane yield were determined as well as biogas composition. The results showed that rice straw as well as rice residues from the drying process had the highest biogas and methane yield. Temperature played an important role in determining both biogas yield and kinetics. In all cases, rice straw produced the highest yields; under mesophilic conditions the biogas yield was 0.43 m(3) kg(VS)(-1), under thermophilic conditions biogas yield reached 0.52 m(3) kg(VS)(-1). In the case of the rice husk, the biodegradability was very low. Methane content in all batches was kept above 55% vol. All digested material had a high carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratio, even though significant biodegradation was recorded with the exception of rice husk. A first-order model can be used to describe the rice crop residues fermentation effectively.
22378946	α-Linolenic acid (ALA) deficiency and a skewed of ω6:ω3 fatty acid ratio in the diet are a major explanation for the prevalence of cardiovascular diseases and inflammatory/autoimmune diseases. There is a need to enhance the ALA content and to reduce the ratio of linoleic acid (LA) to ALA. Six ω-3 (Δ-15) fatty acid desaturase (FAD) genes were cloned from rice and soybean. The subcellular localizations of the proteins were identified. The FAD genes were introduced into rice under the control of an endosperm-specific promoter, GluC, or a Ubi-1 promoter to evaluate their potential in increasing the ALA content in seeds. The ALA contents in the seeds of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized GmFAD3-1 and OsFAD3 overexpression lines increased from 0.36 mg g⁻¹ to 8.57 mg g⁻¹ and 10.06 mg g⁻¹, respectively, which was 23.8- and 27.9-fold higher than that of non-transformants. The trait of high ALA content was stably inheritable over three generations. Homologous OsFAD3 is more active than GmFAD3-1 in catalysing LA conversion to ALA in rice seeds. Overexpression of ER-localized GmFAD3-2/3 and chloroplast-localized OsFAD7/8 had less effect on increasing the ALA content in rice seeds. The GluC promoter is advantageous compared with Ubi-1 in this experimental system. The enhanced ALA was preferentially located at the sn-2 position in triacylglycerols. A meal-size portion of high ALA rice would meet >80% of the daily adult ALA requirement. The ALA-rich rice could be expected to ameliorate much of the global dietary ALA deficiency.
22378952	House dust mites (HDM) are the most common source of indoor allergens and are associated with allergic diseases worldwide. To benefit allergic patients, safer and non-invasive mucosal routes of oral administration are considered to be the best alternative to conventional allergen-specific immunotherapy. In this study, transgenic rice was developed expressing derivatives of the major HDM allergen Der f 2 with reduced Der f 2-specific IgE reactivity by disrupting intramolecular disulphide bonds in Der f 2. These derivatives were produced specifically as secretory proteins in the endosperm tissue of seeds under the control of the endosperm-specific glutelin GluB-1 promoter. Notably, modified Der f 2 derivatives aggregated in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen and were deposited in a unique protein body (PB)-like structure tentatively called the Der f 2 body. Der f 2 bodies were characterized by their intracellular localization and physico-chemical properties, and were distinct from ER-derived PBs (PB-Is) and protein storage vacuoles (PB-IIs). Unlike ER-derived organelles such as PB-Is, Der f 2 bodies were rapidly digested in simulated gastric fluid in a manner similar to that of PB-IIs. Oral administration in mice of transgenic rice seeds containing Der f 2 derivatives encapsulated in Der f 2 bodies suppressed Der f 2-specific IgE and IgG production compared with that in mice fed non-transgenic rice seeds, and the effect was dependent on the type of Der f 2 derivative expressed. These results suggest that engineered hypoallergenic Der f 2 derivatives expressed in the rice seed endosperm could serve as a basis for the development of viable strategies for the oral delivery of vaccines against HDM allergy.
22380482	The chemical constituents and biological activities of the terrestrial Aspergillus flavipes MM2 isolated from Egyptian rice hulls are reported. Seven bioactive compounds were obtained, of which one sterol: ergosterol (1), four butyrolactones: butyrolactone I (2), aspulvinone H (3), butyrolactone-V (6) and 4,4'-diydroxypulvinone (7), along with 6-methylsalicylic acid (4) and the cyclopentenone analogue; terrien (5). Structures of the isolated compounds were deduced by intensive studies of their 1D & 2D NMR, MS data and comparison with related structures. The strain extract and the isolated compounds (1-7) were biologically studied against number of microbial strains, and brine shrimp for cytotoxicity. In this article, the taxonomical characterization of A. flavipes MM2 along with its upscale fermentation, isolation and structural assignment of the obtained bioactive metabolites, and evaluate their antimicrobial and cytotoxic activities were described.
22380881	Recent methylome analyses of the entire Arabidopsis thaliana genome using various mutants have provided detailed information about the DNA methylation pattern and its function. However, information about DNA methylation in other plants is limited, partly because of the lack of mutants. To study DNA methylation in rice (Oryza sativa) we applied homologous recombination-mediated gene targeting to generate targeted disruptants of OsDRM2, a rice orthologue of DOMAINS REARRANGED METHYLASE 1 and 2 (DRM1/2), which encode DNA methyltransferases responsible for de novo and non-CG methylation in Arabidopsis. Whereas Arabidopsis drm1 drm2 double mutants showed no morphological alterations, targeted disruptants of rice OsDRM2 displayed pleiotropic developmental phenotypes in both vegetative and reproductive stages, including growth defects, semi-dwarfed stature, reductions in tiller number, delayed heading or no heading, abnormal panicle and spikelet morphology, and complete sterility. In these osdrm2 disruptants, a 13.9% decrease in 5-methylcytosine was observed by HPLC analysis. The CG and non-CG methylation levels were reduced in RIRE7/CRR1 retrotransposons, and in 5S rDNA repeats. Associated transcriptional activation was detected in RIRE7/CRR1. Furthermore, de novo methylation by an RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) process involving transgene-derived exogenous small interfering RNA (siRNA) was deficient in osdrm2-disrupted cells. Impaired growth and abnormal DNA methylation of osdrm2 disruptants were restored by the complementation of wild-type OsDRM2 cDNA. Our results suggest that OsDRM2 is responsible for de novo, CG and non-CG methylation in rice genomic sequences, and that DNA methylation regulated by OsDRM2 is essential for proper rice development in both vegetative and reproductive stages.
22380942	The Spo0B-associated GTP-binding protein (Obg) GTPase, essential for bacterial viability, is also conserved in eukaryotes, but its primary role in eukaryotes remains unknown. Here, our functional characterization of Arabidopsis and rice obgc mutants strongly underlines the evolutionarily conserved role of eukaryotic Obgs in organellar ribosome biogenesis. The mutants exhibited a chlorotic phenotype, caused by retarded chloroplast development. A plastid DNA macroarray revealed a plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) deficiency in an obgc mutant, caused by incompleteness of the PEP complex, as its western blot exhibited reduced levels of RpoA protein, a component of PEP. Plastid rRNA profiling indicated that plastid rRNA processing is defective in obgc mutants, probably resulting in impaired ribosome biogenesis and, in turn, in reduced levels of RpoA protein. RNA co-immunoprecipitation revealed that ObgC specifically co-precipitates with 23S rRNA in vivo. These findings indicate that ObgC functions primarily in plastid ribosome biogenesis during chloroplast development. Furthermore, complementation analysis can provide new insights into the functional modes of three ObgC domains, including the Obg fold, G domain and OCT.
22381534	The validity of a self-questionnaire about eating quickly remains unclear. If a significant relationship between subjective and objective methods to evaluate eating quickly can be confirmed, then the subjective method can be widely and reliably used in many fields. This study investigated relationships between subjective and objective methods to evaluate eating quickly and also numerically characterized the kinesis of eating quickly in young people. One hundred and thirteen students (44 males and 69 females; mean age 22.8 ± 2.0 years) were selected. All subjects completed written questionnaires, and number of chews until first swallow, total duration of chewing, number of chews, chewing rate and bite size were measured using test products (a Japanese cracker and rice ball). Both male and female subjects who reported eating quickly showed a significantly lower number of chews until first swallow (Japanese cracker), a lower number of chews overall (rice ball), and a shorter total duration of chewing (rice ball) than other subjects. There was no difference in chewing rate between subjects who ate quickly or not. These findings suggest that using test products, self-reports of eating quickly are related to a decreased number of chews until first swallow, total number of chews, and total duration of chewing, but not chewing rate, and that a self-reported questionnaire to evaluate eating rate is valid in young people.
22382059	Cre/lox system derived from P1 bacteriaphage can quickly and effectively achieve gene insertion, deletion, replacement, and inversion by means of site-specific recombination. As one of the most important tools for gene targeting at present, Cre/lox system has been widely used in Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa L., Mus musculus, Drosophila melanogaster, Danio rerio, and other higher eukaryotic organisms. This review roundly described the basic profile of Cre/lox system, and its application in higher eukaryotes. In addition, we also discussed the main problems and developmental trend of the Cre/lox system in this review, which can be a good reference for using Cre/lox system to realize the gene manipulations of the different high eukaryotic organisms.
22382062	Bt01 is a new type of rice that has been genetically modified to express Cry1Abprotein. This study confirmed that Cry1Abwas inserted into Bt01 as a single copy using Southern blotting analysis. TAIL-PCR method was further used to obtain its insertion site information. Specific PCR primers and TaqMan probes were designed based on the 5'-integration junction sequence of transgenic rice Bt01. The results showed that the limit of detection (LOD) was ten copies in qualitative PCR. The quantitative PCR assay showed that the LOD was five copies, and the limit of quantification (LOQ) was ten cop-ies. In addition, the accuracy of the established quantitative PCR was verified by detecting two samples containing 3% and 0.5%Bt01, respectively. The quantitative PCR analysis showed the results were 2.7% and 0.47%, respectively.The above results indicated that the event-specific PCR methods developed have high specificity and good sensitivity, which could be effective methods for identifying and testing the genetically modified Bt01 rice.
22382063	Common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon) is an important genetic resource. Discovery of desirable alleles in wild rice will make important contributions to rice genetic improvement. In this study, Zhenshan 97 as the recurrent parent and wild rice as the donor parent were used to develop a BC2F1 population. One plant BC2F1-15 in the population showed distinct phenotype from Zhenshan 97 was selected to produce a population of BC2F5 by continuous self-crossing. The genotype assay of the plant BC2F1-15 with 126 polymorphic SSR markers evenly distributed on 12 chromosomes showed that it was heterozygous at 30% of the control marker loci. Four, 3, 4, 2, and 1 QTLs were detected for heading date, plant height, spikelets per panicle, grain weight, and single plant yield in the BC2F5 population, respectively. One QTL region flanked by the marker interval of RM481-RM2 on chromosome 7 had pleiotropic effects on heading date, spikelets per panicle, and grain yield per plant, and the alleles of wild rice increased phenotypic values. At the other 3 QTLs for spikelets per panicle, common wild rice had positive effects. These results clearly showed that common wild rice carried desirable alleles for yield related traits. The favorable alleles from common wild rice are new valuable genes for rice breeding.
22382064	A yellow-leaf mutant (yl11) with chlorophyll-deficient in rice (Oryza sativa L.) was selected from the progeny of a japonica rice variety "Jiahua 1" treated with 60Co γ-radiation. In comparison with the wild-type parent, "Jiahua 1", the mutant had yellow-leaves at whole growth stages and displayed significantly decreased in chlorophyll content and net photosynthetic rate. Underdeveloped chloroplast and alterations of the major agronomic traits, such as plant-heights, were also observed in the mutant. Genetic analysis confirmed that the yellow-leaf mutant trait was controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene (yl11). Using SSR and In/Del molecular markers and 920 F2 and F3 plants from the cross of yl11 with the indica variety Peiai 64S, the yl11 was mapped between the molecular markers MM2199 and InDel21039 with a physical distance of 110 kb on the long arm of chromosome 11, in which no known functional genes for chlorophyll synthesis or chloroplast development in rice has been found. These findings will provide a foundation for the cloning and functional analysis of this gene in the future.
22382167	Type 2 diabetes is a major health concern and a rapidly growing disease with a modern etiology, which produces significant morbidity and mortality. The optimal management of type 2 diabetes aims to control hyperglycemia, hypertension, and dyslipidemia to reduce overall risks. Diabetes and its complications usually develop as oxidative stress increases. Monascus-fermented rice, also called red mold rice or red mold dioscorea are used in China to enhance food color and flavor. Red mold-fermented products are popular health foods that are considered to have antiobesity, antifatigue, antioxidation, and cancer prevention effects. This review article describes the antidiabetic and antioxidative stress effects on humans and animals of red mold-fermented products or their secondary metabolites.
22382682	Abscisic acid stress ripening (ASR1) protein is a small hydrophilic, low molecular weight, and stress-specific plant protein. The gene coding region of ASR1 protein, which is induced under high salinity in rice (Oryza sativa Ilmi), was cloned into a yeast expression vector pVTU260 and transformed into yeast cells. Heterologous expression of ASR1 protein in transgenic yeast cells improved tolerance to abiotic stresses including hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), high salinity (NaCl), heat shock, menadione, copper sulfate, sulfuric acid, lactic acid, salicylic acid, and also high concentration of ethanol. In particular, the expression of metabolic enzymes (Fba1p, Pgk1p, Eno2p, Tpi1p, and Adh1p), antioxidant enzyme (Ahp1p), molecular chaperone (Ssb1p), and pyrimidine biosynthesis-related enzyme (Ura1p) was up-regulated in the transgenic yeast cells under oxidative stress when compared with wild-type cells. All of these enzymes contribute to an alleviated redox state to H2O2-induced oxidative stress. In the in vitro assay, the purified ASR1 protein was able to scavenge ROS by converting H(2)O(2) to H(2)O. Taken together, these results suggest that the ASR1 protein could function as an effective ROS scavenger and its expression could enhance acquired tolerance of ROS-induced oxidative stress through induction of various cell rescue proteins in yeast cells.
22383541	Two-component signaling elements play important roles in plants, including a central role in cytokinin signaling. We characterized two-component elements from the monocot rice (Oryza sativa) using several complementary approaches. Phylogenetic analysis reveals relatively simple orthologous relationships among the histidine kinases in rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). In contrast, the histidine-containing phosphotransfer proteins (OsHPs) and response regulators (OsRRs) display a higher degree of lineage-specific expansion. The intracellular localizations of several OsHPs and OsRRs were examined in rice and generally found to correspond to the localizations of their dicot counterparts. The functionality of rice type-B OsRRs was tested in Arabidopsis; one from a clade composed of both monocot and dicot type-B OsRRs complemented an Arabidopsis type-B response regulator mutant, but a type-B OsRR from a monocot-specific subfamily generally did not. The expression of genes encoding two-component elements and proteins involved in cytokinin biosynthesis and degradation was analyzed in rice roots and shoots and in response to phytohormones. Nearly all type-A OsRRs and OsHK4 were up-regulated in response to cytokinin, but other cytokinin signaling elements were not appreciably affected. Furthermore, multiple cytokinin oxidase (OsCKX) genes were up-regulated by cytokinin. Abscisic acid treatment decreased the expression of several genes involved in cytokinin biosynthesis and degradation. Auxin affected the expression of a few genes; brassinosteroid and gibberellin had only modest effects. Our results support a shared role for two-component elements in mediating cytokinin signaling in monocots and dicots and reveal how phytohormones can impact cytokinin function through modulating gene expression.
22383627	Dry seeds contain translatable, long-lived mRNAs that are stored during seed maturation. Early studies using transcriptional inhibitors supported the view that protein synthesis during the initial phase of germination occurs on long-lived mRNA templates. Rice seeds were treated with the transcriptional inhibitor actinomycin D (Act D), and the embryonic proteins translated from long-lived mRNAs during germination were identified using a proteomic analysis. De novo transcription was not required for germination of rice seeds, since >80% of seeds germinated when transcription was prevented by treatment with Act D. In contrast, germination was completely inhibited in the presence of cycloheximide, an inhibitor of translation. Thus, de novo protein synthesis is necessary for germination of rice seeds. The proteomic analysis revealed that 20 proteins are up-regulated during germination, even after Act D treatment. Many of the up-regulated proteins are involved in carbohydrate metabolism and cytoskeleton formation. These results indicate that some of the germination-specific proteins involved in energy production and maintenance of cell structure in rice seeds are synthesized from long-lived mRNAs. The timing of translation of eight up-regulated proteins was clearly later than that of the other up-regulated proteins under conditions in which transcription was inhibited by Act D, suggesting that translation of long-lived mRNAs in rice seeds is regulated according to the germination phase.
22383984	Rice restorer lines play an important role in three-line hybrid rice production. Previous research based on molecular tagging has suggested that the restorer lines used widely today have narrow genetic backgrounds. However, patterns of genetic variation at a genome-wide scale in these restorer lines remain largely unknown. The present study performed re-sequencing and genome-wide variation analysis of three important representative restorer lines, namely, IR24, MH63, and SH527, using the Solexa sequencing technology. With the genomic sequence of the Indica cultivar 9311 as the reference, the following genetic features were identified: 267,383 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 52,847 insertion/deletion polymorphisms (InDels), and 3,286 structural variations (SVs) in the genome of IR24; 288,764 SNPs, 59,658 InDels, and 3,226 SVs in MH63; and 259,862 SNPs, 55,500 InDels, and 3,127 SVs in SH527. Variations between samples were also determined by comparative analysis of authentic collections of SNPs, InDels, and SVs, and were functionally annotated. Furthermore, variations in several important genes were also surveyed by alignment analysis in these lines. Our results suggest that genetic variations among these lines, although far lower than those reported in the landrace population, are greater than expected, indicating a complicated genetic basis for the phenotypic diversity of the restorer lines. Identification of genome-wide variation and pattern analysis among the restorer lines will facilitate future genetic studies and the molecular improvement of hybrid rice.
22384086	Fructose-bisphophate aldolase (FbaB), is an enzyme in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis in living organisms. The mutagenesis in a unique fbaB gene of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal agent of rice bacterial leaf streak, led the pathogen not only unable to use pyruvate and malate for growth and delayed its growth when fructose was used as the sole carbon source, but also reduced extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) production and impaired bacterial virulence and growth in rice. Intriguingly, the fbaB promoter contains an imperfect PIP-box (plant-inducible promoter) (TTCGT-N(9)-TTCGT). The expression of fbaB was negatively regulated by a key hrp regulatory HrpG and HrpX cascade. Base substitution in the PIP-box altered the regulation of fbaB with the cascade. Furthermore, the expression of fbaB in X. oryzae pv. oryzicola RS105 strain was inducible in planta rather than in a nutrient-rich medium. Except other hrp-hrc-hpa genes, the expression of hrpG and hrpX was repressed and the transcripts of hrcC, hrpE and hpa3 were enhanced when fbaB was deleted. The mutation in hrcC, hrpE or hpa3 reduced the ability of the pathogen to acquire pyruvate and malate. In addition, bacterial virulence and growth in planta and EPS production in RΔfbaB mutant were completely restored to the wild-type level by the presence of fbaB in trans. This is the first report to demonstrate that carbohydrates, assimilated by X. oryzae pv. oryzicola, play critical roles in coordinating hrp gene expression through a yet unknown regulator.
22384587	In a long-term site-specific experiment with rice straw return (RSR) and in a short-term experiment with different RSR modes, this paper studied the effects of RSR on the soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration, methane emission, and net carbon sink in a double season paddy field. RSR increased the SOC content, and the annual increasing rate of soil carbon sink in plow layer (0-15 cm) under long-term RSR was 0.07 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1). With the increasing amount of RSR, the apparent SOC transformation rate decreased. RSR promoted the methane emission from the paddy field significantly, and the methane emission flux in treatment RSR plus NPK during early- and late rice growth seasons increased by 75.0% and 251.5% (P < 0.01), respectively, compared with that in treatment NPK. The methane emission increased with the increasing amount of RSR. Under the similar tillage mode and rice yield, the rice straw returned had the similar apparent methane transformation rate. Considering the soil carbon sequestration and the net carbon sink after methane emission in the paddy field comprehensively, treatment RSR plus NPK had significant negative effect on the carbon sink which was basically approached to the bio-fixation of carbon by rice and increased by 158.3%, as compared with treatment NPK. Among different RSR modes, rice straw mulching plus no tillage decreased soil methane emission significantly, with the net carbon sink decreased by 50.9% as compared with the treatment high stubble plus tillage, and benefited the high and stable yielding of rice.
22384589	By the method of site-specific observation, and selecting 27 field plots with 7 planting patterns in Shaoxing county of Zhejiang Province as test objects, this paper studied the characteristics of nitrogen (N) and phosphorous (P) runoff losses, loads, and their affecting factors in the croplands with different planting patterns in riverine plain area of the Province under natural rainfall. The mean annual runoff loads of total P, dissolved P, and particulate P from the field plots were 4.75, 0.74 and 4.01 kg x hm(-2), respectively, and the load of particulate P was much higher than that of dissolved P. The mean annual runoff loads of total N, dissolved total N, dissolved organic N, NH4(+)-N, and NO3(-)-N were 21.87, 17.19, 0.61, 3.63 and 12.95 kg x hm(-2), respectively, and the load of different fractions of dissolved total N was in the sequence of NO3(-)-N > NH4(+)-N > dissolved organic N. As for the field plots with different planting patterns, the runoff loads of total N, dissolved total N, dissolved organic N, and NO3(-)-N were in the sequence of fallow land < nursery land < single late rice field < double rice field < rape (or wheat)-single late rice field < wheat-early rice-late rice field < vegetable field, while those of total P and particulate P were in the sequence of fallow land < nursery land < single late rice field and double rice field < wheat-early rice-late rice field < rape (wheat)-single late rice field < vegetable field. No significant difference was observed in the load of water-dissolved P among the test plots with different planting patterns. The runoff losses of N and P mainly occurred in crop growth period, and the proportions of N and P losses in the growth period increased with increasing multiple crop index. The runoff losses of total N, dissolved N, and NO3(-)-N were mainly related to the application rate of N fertilizer, and soil NO3(-)-N content also had obvious effects on the runoff losses of total N and dissolved N. The runoff loss of dissolved organic N was related not only to N application rate, but also to soil total N and organic carbon. The runoff loss of NH4(+)-N was mainly related to soil available NH4(+)-N, but not related to N application rate. The runoff losses of total P and particulate P were related to both P application rate and soil available P, while the runoff loss of water dissolved P was less related to P application rate but had relations to soil total P and available P.
22384954	This study examined the feasibility of using black rice bran (BRB) as an ingredient of noodles and evaluated the effect of BRB incorporation in noodles in terms of chemical and functional attributes. Noodles were prepared with BRB as an ingredient at different levels (2%, 5%, 10%, and 15%). Addition of BRB (5%, 10%, and 15%) significantly decreased the cohesiveness of noodles in texture evaluation. Noodles with different levels of BRB were functionally evaluated and content of polyphenolics, flavonoids, and anthocyanins were improved compared to the control. Additionally, antioxidant activity of BRB noodles was increased compared to the control. BRB can be an excellent ingredient to increase the nutritional value and antioxidant properties of noodles.
22385279	The potential energy surfaces of the CF(3)CH═CH(2) + OH reaction have been investigated at the BMC-CCSD level based on the geometric parameters optimized at the MP2/6-311++G(d,p) level. Various possible H (or F)-abstraction and addition/elimination pathways are considered. Temperature- and pressure-dependent rate constants have been determined using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory with tunneling correction. It is shown that IM1 (CF(3)CHCH(2)OH) and IM2 (CF(3)CHOHCH(2)) formed by collisional stabilization are major products at 100 Torr pressure of Ar and in the temperature range of T < 700 K (at P = 700 Torr with N(2) as bath gas, T ≤ 900 K), whereas CH(2)═CHOH and CF(3) produced by the addition/elimination pathway are the dominant end products at 700-2000 K. The production of CF(3)CHCH and CF(3)CCH(2) produced by hydrogen abstractions become important at T ≥ 2000 K. The calculated results are in good agreement with available experimental data. The present theoretical study is helpful for the understanding the characteristics of the reaction of CF(3)CH═CH(2) + OH.
22385548	We hypothesized that a nutraceutical formulation containing small amounts of bioactive constituents that exert cholesterol-lowering effects by different mechanisms may exhibit synergistic efficacy with a clean tolerability profile. The purpose of this study was to evaluate nutraceutical fruit-flavored drinks with and without red yeast rice (RYR) for effects on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and total cholesterol. In double-blinded fashion, 79 subjects were randomized to one of three fruit-flavored drinks, ie, a placebo, and two active drinks containing niacin, phytosterol esters, L-carnitine, vitamin C, and Co-Q-10, one with and without RYR, twice daily. Primary end points were LDL and total cholesterol percent reductions from baseline. Secondary end points were high-density lipoprotein and C-reactive protein percent change from baseline. Physician contact and laboratory work were obtained at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks of subject participation. A total of 59 subjects completed the study. The placebo group and the group receiving the nutraceuticals without RYR showed no change in primary or secondary end points. The nutraceutical drink with RYR reduced total cholesterol at week 4 by 13% (-35 mg/dL) and week 8 by 14% (-46 mg/dL). LDL cholesterol decreased 17.1% at 4 weeks (-28 mg/dL) and 17.8% at week 8 (-30 mg/dL). In the effective drink arm containing nutraceuticals and RYR there were no biochemical or subjective intolerance, with the exception of one subject who experienced headache. A nutraceutical drink with RYR can be a safe and effective natural alternative to pharmacologic therapies for people intolerant to or refusing statins but still in need of achieving and maintaining a healthy and low cholesterol level.
22385556	Rice yield is greatly affected by environmental stresses such as drought and salinity. In response to the challenge of producing rice plants tolerant to these stresses, we introduced cDNA encoding the transcription factors DREB1A and DREB1B under the control of the stress inducible rd29 promoter. Two different indica rice cultivars were used, BR29, an improved commercially cultivated variety from Bangladesh and IR68899B, an IRRI bred maintainer line for hybrid rice. Agrobacterium mediated transformation of BR29 was done independently with DREB1A isolated from rice and Arabidopsis and DREB1B isolated from rice, whereas biolistic transformation was done with rice- DREB1B in the case of IR68899B. Initial genetic integration was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis. Salinity tolerance was assayed in very young seedlings. Drought stress tests were found to be more reliable when they were carried out at the pre-flowering booting stage. RNA gel blot analysis as well as quantitative PCR analysis was performed to estimate the transcription level under stressed and unstressed conditions. Agronomic performance studies were done with stressed and unstressed plants to compare the yield losses due to dehydration and salt loading stresses. Noticeably enhanced tolerance to dehydration was observed in the plants transformed with DREB1A isolated from Arabidopsis while DREB1B was found to be more effective for salt tolerance.
22386202	Torrefaction and burning characteristics of bamboo, oil palm, rice husk, bagasse, and Madagascar almond were studied and compared with a high-volatile bituminous coal using a drop tube furnace to evaluate the potential of biomass consumed in blast furnaces. Torrefaction at 250 and 300°C for 1h duration was carried out. Analysis using the ash tracer method indicated that the extent of atomic carbon reduction in the biomasses was less than that of atomic hydrogen and oxygen. Torrefaction also lowered the sulfur content in bamboo and oil palm over 33%. An examination of the R-factor and burnout of the samples suggests that more volatiles were released and a higher burnout was achieved with raw and torrefied biomasses at 250°C than at 300°C; however, torrefaction at 300°C is a feasible operating condition to transform biomass into a solid fuel resembling a high-volatile bituminous coal used for blast furnaces.
22387159	The main routes of fluoride (F) exposure are drinking water and certain foods; consequently, intestinal absorption is an important stage in the study of F exposure. In the present study, different cell models [Caco-2, HT29-MTX and various proportions of Caco-2/HT29-MTX)] were used to evaluate intestinal transport of F. The influence of cell type, pH, mucus layer, bile salts and food matrices on the apparent permeability coefficient (P(app)) was evaluated. The results show that a higher proportion of HT29-MTX in the monolayer produces an increase in F permeability, although the mucus layer secreted by HT29-MTX decreases F transport. The results also show that taurocholic acid, a component of bile salts, and acid pH increase F permeability, whereas the presence of a food matrix (rice) decreases intestinal transport of F. In all cases, alterations in F permeability were closely related with modulation of cell junctions.
22388489	Mixed-linkage glucan (MLG) is a cell wall polysaccharide containing a backbone of unbranched (1,3)- and (1,4)-linked β-glucosyl residues. Based on its occurrence in plants and chemical characteristics, MLG has primarily been associated with the regulation of cell wall expansion due to its high and transient accumulation in young, expanding tissues. The Cellulose synthase-like F (CslF) subfamily of glycosyltransferases has previously been implicated in mediating the biosynthesis of this polymer. We confirmed that the rice (Oryza sativa) CslF6 gene mediates the biosynthesis of MLG by overexpressing it in Nicotiana benthamiana. Rice cslf6 knockout mutants show a slight decrease in height and stem diameter but otherwise grew normally during vegetative development. However, cslf6 mutants display a drastic decrease in MLG content (97% reduction in coleoptiles and virtually undetectable in other tissues). Immunodetection with an anti-MLG monoclonal antibody revealed that the coleoptiles and leaves retain trace amounts of MLG only in specific cell types such as sclerenchyma fibers. These results correlate with the absence of endogenous MLG synthase activity in mutant seedlings and 4-week-old sheaths. Mutant cell walls are weaker in mature stems but not seedlings, and more brittle in both stems and seedlings, compared to wild type. Mutants also display lesion mimic phenotypes in leaves, which correlates with enhanced defense-related gene expression and enhanced disease resistance. Taken together, our results underline a weaker role of MLG in cell expansion than previously thought, and highlight a structural role for MLG in nonexpanding, mature stem tissues in rice.
22389198	Brown rice fermented with Aspergillus oryzae, designated as FBRA, is a dietary fiber-rich food, and fully appreciated as one of the prebiotics, which are generally considered to be beneficial to the health of the body, because of stimulating the growth and/or the activity of bacteria in the digestive system. To assess the effectiveness of FBRA as a functional food, the direct effect of FBRA extract on human colorectal tumor cells was examined. The exposure of HCT116 cells to FBRA extract reduced their viabilities in a concentration-dependent manner, and the reduction of the cell viability might be attributed to the induction of apoptosis probably through the oxidative damage to the cells. Further studies showed that FBRA extract caused a significant elevation of Bax protein and a slight reduction of Bcl2 protein levels, and furthermore caused the activation of caspase-3 in the cells. Thus, it seems reasonable to conclude that FBRA extract can exert oxidative damage to the cells, resulting in apoptotic cell death by activating the mitochondrial pathway in human colorectal tumor cells. Therefore, daily intake of FBRA can be expected to be beneficial for preventing carcinogenesis and/or suppressing tumor growth in the digestive tract.
22389767	Red yeast rice (RYR) is made by fermenting the yeast Monascus purpureus over rice. It is a source of natural red food colorants, a food garnish and a traditional medication. Results of the current study demonstrated that polar fractions of the RYR preparations contained herbal-drug interaction activity, which if left unremoved, enhanced P-glycoprotein activity and inhibited the major drug metabolizing cytochromes P450, i,e, CYP 1A2, 2C9 and 3A4. The data from Caco-2 cell absorption and animal model studies further demonstrated that the pharmacokinetic modulation effect by RYR preparations containing the polar fractions ("untreated" preparation) was greater than that from RYR preparations with the polar fractions removed ("treated" preparation). The data indicates a potential for herb-drug interactions to be present in RYR commonly sold as nutritional supplements when the polar fractions are not removed and this should be taken into consideration when RYR is consumed with medications, including verapamil.
22390357	• Rates of tissue expansion, cell division and progression in the plant cycle are driven by temperature, following common Arrhenius-type response curves. • We analysed the genetic variability of this response in the range 6-37°C in seven to nine lines of maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza spp.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) and in 18 species (17 crop species, different genotypes) via the meta-analysis of 72 literature references. • Lines with tropical or north-temperate origins had common response curves over the whole range of temperature. Conversely, appreciable differences in response curves, including optimum temperatures, were observed between species growing in temperate and tropical areas. • Therefore, centuries of crop breeding have not impacted on the response of development to short-term changes in temperature, whereas evolution over millions of years has. This slow evolution may be a result of the need for a synchronous shift in the temperature response of all developmental processes, otherwise plants will not be viable. Other possibilities are discussed. This result has important consequences for the breeding and modelling of temperature effects associated with global changes.
22391125	Rice is one of the most important food crops drastically affected by drought in lowland rice ecosystems. In the present study, the impact of drought tolerant isolates of endophytic fungus Trichoderma harzianum on rice response to drought was investigated. Out of 43 Trichoderma isolates studied, only five isolates viz., Th 56, Th 69, Th 75, Th 82 and Th 89 were selected to be drought tolerant as these were able to colonize well on cow dung at low moisture content of 10-20 percent, though two isolates, Th 56 and Th 75, grew even at 5 percent moisture content. Trichoderma-colonized rice seedlings were slower to wilt in response to drought. Colonization delayed drought induced changes like stomatal conductance, net photosynthesis and leaf greenness. Drought conditions varying from 3 to 9 days of withholding water led to an increase in the concentration of many stress induced metabolites in rice leaves and decrease of MSI, while Trichoderma colonization caused a decrease in proline, MDA and H₂O₂ contents, and increase in phenolics concentration and MSI. Among test isolates, Th 56 induced maximum drought tolerance as treated plants recorded only 20-40 percent wilting even at 9 DDS. With or without exposure to drought, colonization by Trichoderma promoted seedling growth, with Th 56 giving the most consistent effect. The primary direct effect of Trichoderma colonization was promotion of root growth, regardless of water status, which caused delay in the drought responses of rice plants.
22393032	This study determined whether early experiences by sheep with monotonous or diverse diets influence intake of unfamiliar flavors and feeds later in life. Thirty 2-mo-old lambs were randomly assigned to 3 treatment diets (n = 10): diverse (DIV), diverse with plant toxins (DIV+T), and monotonous (MON). Lambs in DIV received in 9 successive periods of exposure 4-way choice combinations of 2 foods high in energy and 2 foods high in protein from an array of 6 foods: 3 high in energy [beet pulp, oat grain, and a mix of milo:grape pomace (60:40)] and 3 high in digestible protein (DP) (soybean meal, alfalfa, corn gluten meal). Lambs in DIV+T received the same exposure as DIV, but 2 plant toxins, oxalic acid (1.5%) and quebracho tannins (10%), were randomly added to 2 of the feeds in each of the choice combinations. Lambs in MON received a monotonous balanced diet, made with a mixture of all 6 feeds detailed before. All treatments received their feed in 4 separate buckets. During exposure, treatments did not differ in total daily DMI (P = 0.31), but daily intake of ME was less (P < 0.02) and daily intake of DP was greater (P < 0.03) for lambs in DIV and DIV+T than for lambs in MON. Treatments did not differ in ADG or G:F (P > 0.05). After exposure, lambs were offered a familiar feed (wheat bran) containing novel flavors (maple, garlic, or bitter) and 2-way choices of novel feeds (fescue hay vs. corn distillers grains, rice vs. calf manna, and green peas vs. rolled oats). Intake of maple-flavored wheat bran tended (P = 0.08) to be greater for lambs in DIV than for lambs in DIV+T and MON. Intake of bitter-flavored and garlic-flavored wheat bran were greater (P = 0.03 and P = 0.04, respectively) for lambs in DIV and DIV+T than for lambs in MON. During 2-way choice trials, lambs in DIV, but not in DIV+T, showed greater intakes of fescue hay (P = 0.05) and rice (P = 0.04) than lambs in MON. Intake of green peas was greater (P = 0.03) for lambs in DIV and DIV+T than for lambs in MON. At the end of testing, lambs in DIV but not in DIV+T showed greater ADG than lambs in MON (P = 0.05). Thus, early exposure to diverse foods enhanced acceptance of novel flavors relative to early exposure to a monotonous ration. Early experience with diverse feeds plus plant toxins led to a less diverse diet than early experience with diverse feeds. Early exposure to diverse feeds may be beneficial in production systems that require rapid acceptance and high intake of unfamiliar feeds.
22393242	In budding yeast, the ZMM complex is closely associated with class I crossovers and synaptonemal complex (SC) formation. However, the relationship between the ZMM genes remains unclear in most higher eukaryotes. Here, we identify the rice ZIP4 homolog, a member of the ZMM gene group, and explore its relationship with two other characterized ZMM genes, MER3 and ZEP1. Our results show that in the rice zip4 mutant, the chiasma frequency is greatly reduced, although synapsis proceeds with only mild defects. Immunocytological analyses of wild-type rice reveal that ZIP4 presents as punctuate foci and colocalizes with MER3 in prophase I meiocytes. Additionally, ZIP4 is essential for the loading of MER3 onto chromosomes, but not vice versa. Double-mutant analyses show that zip4 mer3 displays a greater decrease in the mean number of chiasmata than either of the zip4 or mer3 single mutants, suggesting that ZIP4 and MER3 work cooperatively to promote CO formation but their individual contributions are not completely identical in rice. Although zep1 alone gives an increased chiasma number, both zip4 zep1 and mer3 zep1 show a much lower chiasma number than the zip4 or mer3 single mutants. These results imply that the normal functions of ZIP4 and MER3 are required for the regulation of COs by ZEP1.
22393624	This longitudinal entomological survey was conducted between September 2008 and September 2009 in the villages of Abokro and Yaokoffikro located in an irrigated rice farming area of central Côte d'Ivoire. The purpose was to investigate the bio-ecological characteristics of Anopheles gambiae s.s. during the gonotrophic cycle. In both villages, adult mosquitoes were captured in 72 light traps, collected on humans subjects at a rate of 72 man-night from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., and knocked down using pyrethroid spray inside 60 sentinel houses in the early morning. A total of 10,312 adult mosquitoes were collected in Abokro and 7,662 in Yaokoffikro. Anopheles was the dominant genus at both locations. Light traps were three times more efficient in Abokro than in Yaokoffikro. In both places, An. gambiae s.s. biting rates increased gradually up to a peak observed between midnight and 1 a.m. In Abokro, most An. gambiae s.s. were collected inside sleeping rooms. The endophagic rate and indoor resting density was 67.4% (n = 4798) and 14.9 females per bedroom per night, respectively, in Abokro as compared to 49.3% (n = 6775) and 2.9 females per bedroom per day, respectively, in Yaokoffikro.
22393698	A high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method was established for the analysis of niclosamide ethanolamine residue in rice and paddy field. The paddy water and plant were extracted with alkaline ethylacetate, while the paddy soil, rice husk and unpolished rice were first extracted with alkaline ethanol, and then with ethylacetate. The extracts were then cleaned-up by a Florisil column and detected by high performance liquid chromatography with an ultraviolet detector (UVD) on a Welchrom C18 column (250 mm x 4.6 mm, 5 microm). The calibration curve showed good linearity from 0.01 mg/L to 10.00 mg/L with the correlation coefficient more than 0. 999 8. The average recoveries of this method were from 93.47% to 100.9% with the relative standard deviations of 1.46% - 5.82% at the spiked levels of 0.01 - 5.00 mg/kg. This method is fast, simple, sensitive, reproducible and practical for the determination of niclosamide ethanolamine residue in paddy fields, and can meet the requirement of the determination of pesticide residues.
22393712	The preliminary role of respiratory burst oxidase homolog (Rboh) in plant immune response is defined, but the exact function of OsRboh gene in rice immune response and its expression pattern is yet unclear. In order to clarify the role of OsRboh in rice immune response, we screened seven OsRboh genes from the latest rice genome annotation database. The result of tissue specific expression analysis demonstrated that OsRbohD was expressed only in spike and calli, and OsRbohE and OsRbohF were only expressed in calli. The rest of OsRboh genes were constitutively expressed in rice. In addition, the expression level of OsRboh gene family was analyzed in the rice leaves respectively treated with salicylic acid (SA), methyl jasmonic acid (MeJA) and Xanthomonas oryzae PV. oryzae (Xoo) PXO99 strain by Real-time PCR, and H2O2 content was also quantified by spectrophotometry after the three treatments. The result shows that the expression of OsRbohA, B, C and D was increased under the treatments of SA, the expression of OsRbohA, B, C and G was increased under the treatments of MeJA, and the expression of OsRbohA and OsRbohB was induced by Xoo PXO99 strain. However, the levels of expression and responsive times of these genes were different. Moreover, all three treatments led to H2O2 accumulation. These OsRboh genes have functional roles in rice native immune response.
22394155	Five new decalin derivatives (1-5), together with two known compounds (6 and 7), were isolated from the ethyl acetate extract of red yeast rice. Their structures were elucidated by means of NMR and mass spectroscopic analyses. Monascusic lactone A (1) is the first reported naturally occurring decalin derivative possessing a spiro lactone at the C-1 position. The immunosuppressive effects of all these isolates (1-7) on human T cell proliferation were investigated, and all, especially monascusic acids B (2), C (3), D (4), and A (6) and heptaketide (7), suppressed human T cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner from 10 to 100 μM. This is the first report on the immunosuppressive activity of decalin derivatives.
22394208	Ochratoxin A (OTA) was analysed in composite samples of cereal-based baby foods, beer, breakfast cereals (corn- and rice and wheat-based), loaf bread, peanuts and pistachios. Foodstuffs were collected in hypermarkets and supermarkets from 12 cities in the Spanish region of Catalonia, and composite samples were prepared for analysis involving liquid-liquid extraction, followed by immunoaffinity column clean-up and HPLC with fluorescence detection. Consumption data for the selected foodstuffs were collected by means of a food-frequency questionnaire. The studied population was grouped by age in infants, children, adolescents and adults; and exposure to OTA through the specified foodstuffs, and through wine and coffee, was assessed. Exposure assessment was done through deterministic and probabilistic modelling of the contamination and consumption data. OTA occurrence and mean of positive samples (ng g(-1) or ng ml(-1), for beer) were the following: 8.7% and 0.233 in baby foods; 88.7% and 0.022 in beer; 2.8% and 0.728 in corn-based breakfast cereals; 25% and 0.293 in wheat-based breakfast cereals; 12.9% and 0.283 in loaf bread; 41.7% and 0.241 in peanuts; and 2.9% and 0.228 in pistachios. The median estimated daily intake of OTA through the foodstuffs by each age group were below the latest provisional tolerable daily intakes (PTDIs) of 17 and 14 ng kg(-1) bw day(-1) recommended by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in 2006 and the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) in 2007, respectively, ranging from 1% and 2% of those values in adolescents and children, to 3% and 11% in adults and infants.
22395199	Arsenic (As) contamination is an important environmental consequence in some parts of salinity-affected South (S) and South-East (SE) Asia. In this study, we investigated the individual and combined phytotoxicity of arsenic (As) [arsenate; As(V)] and salinity (NaCl) on early seedling growth (ESG) of saline-tolerant and non-tolerant rice varieties. Germination percentage (GP), germination speed (GS) and vigor index (VI) of both saline-tolerant and non-tolerant rice varieties decreased significantly (p > 0.01) with increasing As(V) and NaCl concentrations. The highest GP (91%) was observed for saline non-tolerant BRRI dhan28 and BRRI dhan49, while the lowest (62%) was for saline-tolerant BRRI dhan47. The ESG parameters, such as weights and relative lengths of plumule and radicle, also decreased significantly (p < 0.01) with increasing As(V) and NaCl concentrations. Relative radicle length was more affected than plumule length by As(V) and NaCl. Although VI of saline-tolerant and non-tolerant rice seedlings showed significant variation (p < 0.05), weights and lengths of plumule and radicle of different rice varieties did not show significant variation for As(V) and NaCl treatments. Results reveal that the combined phytotoxicity of As(V) and NaCl on rice seed germination and ESG are greater than their individual toxicities, and some saline-tolerant rice varieties are more resistant to the combined phytotoxicity of As(V) and NaCl than the saline non-tolerant varieties.
22395576	An R2R3 MYB transcription factor, OsMYB2P-1, was identified from microarray data by monitoring the expression profile of rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica) seedlings exposed to phosphate (Pi)-deficient medium. Expression of OsMYB2P-1 was induced by Pi starvation. OsMYB2P-1 was localized in the nuclei and exhibited transcriptional activation activity. Overexpression of OsMYB2P-1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice enhanced tolerance to Pi starvation, while suppression of OsMYB2P-1 by RNA interference in rice rendered the transgenic rice more sensitive to Pi deficiency. Furthermore, primary roots of OsMYB2P-1-overexpressing plants were shorter than those in wild-type plants under Pi-sufficient conditions, while primary roots and adventitious roots of OsMYB2P-1-overexpressing plants were longer than those of wild-type plants under Pi-deficient conditions. These results suggest that OsMYB2P-1 may also be associated with the regulation of root system architecture. Overexpression of OsMYB2P-1 led to greater expression of Pi-responsive genes such as Oryza sativa UDP-sulfoquinovose synthase, OsIPS1, OsPAP10, OsmiR399a, and OsmiR399j. In contrast, overexpression of OsMYB2P-1 suppressed the expression of OsPHO2 under both Pi-sufficient and Pi-deficient conditions. Moreover, expression of OsPT2, which encodes a low-affinity Pi transporter, was up-regulated in OsMYB2P-1-overexpressing plants under Pi-sufficient conditions, whereas expression of the high-affinity Pi transporters OsPT6, OsPT8, and OsPT10 was up-regulated by overexpression of OsMYB2P-1 under Pi-deficient conditions, suggesting that OsMYB2P-1 may act as a Pi-dependent regulator in controlling the expression of Pi transporters. These findings demonstrate that OsMYB2P-1 is a novel R2R3 MYB transcriptional factor associated with Pi starvation signaling in rice.
22395819	The kinetic behavior of the sugar uptake phenomena of a suspension of Arabidopsis cells was investigated by mid-infrared spectroscopy using Fourier transform infrared spectrometers and attenuated total reflection techniques. The kinetic behavior of the cell growth was also studied and the growth and the sugar uptake behaviors were discussed for three typical plant cells (Arabidopsis, TBY-2, and rice cells). The cell growth rate and the lag period were influenced by not only the types of the plant cells, but also the sugar species used as the carbon source. The characteristics of the sugar uptake behavior were clarified based on the difference in the three types of plant cells. The cell growth and the sugar uptake progressed at approximately the same time in the TBY-2 cells. In the rice cells, the sugar uptake rate was relatively lower than that of the others. On the other hand, the sugar uptake of the Arabidopsis cells started before the cell growth. Furthermore, glucose as the carbon source of the Arabidopsis cell cultivation seems to significantly influence the sugar metabolism. Glucose had a significant influence on the sugar metabolism of the other sugar under the conditions for the mixture of glucose and the other sugar. The characteristics of the sugar uptake phenomena based on the cell growth stage was typical for each plant cell except for some sugars, such as galactose and trehalose, and the behavior of the total sugar uptake had not changed. These results suggested that the cell growth and the sugar uptake in the plant cell cultivation processes may be controlled by the combined supply of the sugar species as the carbon source. The detailed data for plant cell cultivation using each sugar obtained in this study would be useful for bioscience research and for cultivation process control using various sugars, for example, purified or sugar mixtures formed from biomass materials.
22395962	A typical barley (Hordeum vulgare) floret consists of reproductive organs three stamens and a pistil, and non-reproductive organs-lodicules and two floral bracts, abaxial called 'lemma' and adaxial 'palea'. The floret is subtended by two additional bracts called outer or empty glumes. Together these organs form the basic structural unit of the grass inflorescence, a spikelet. There are commonly three spikelets at each rachis (floral stem of the barley spike) node, one central and two lateral spikelets. Rare naturally occurring or induced phenotypic variants that contain a third bract subtending the central spikelets have been described in barley. The gene responsible for this phenotype was called the THIRD OUTER GLUME1 (Trd1). The Trd1 mutants fail to suppress bract growth and as a result produce leaf-like structures that subtend each rachis node in the basal portion of the spike. Also, floral development at the collar is not always suppressed. In rice and maize, recessive mutations in NECK LEAF1 (Nl1) and TASSEL SHEATH1 (Tsh1) genes, respectively, have been shown to be responsible for orthologous phenotypes. Fine mapping of the trd1 phenotype in an F(3) recombinant population enabled us to position Trd1 on the long arm of chromosome 1H to a 10 cM region. We anchored this to a conserved syntenic region on rice chromosome Os05 and selected a set of candidate genes for validation by resequencing PCR amplicons from a series of independent mutant alleles. This analysis revealed that a GATA transcription factor, recently proposed to be Trd1, contained mutations in 10 out of 14 independent trd1 mutant alleles that would generate non-functional TRD1 proteins. Together with genetic linkage data, we confirm the identity of Trd1 as the GATA transcription factor ortholog of rice Nl1 and maize Tsh1 genes.
22396013	Entomological surveys were conducted in the forest region of western Côte-d'Ivoire from November 1998 to December 1999 in order to study the ecology of mosquito breeding sites and bioecology of Culicidae. Three following agro-systems were considered: landscaped lowland (R0), the lowland with one growing season of rice per year (R1) and the lowland with two seasonal production of irrigated rice field per year (R2). Two villages were selected by agro-system, and cross-sectional entomological surveys were conducted every six weeks in each village. A total of 5,839 larvae of mosquitoes were collected in the different categories of breeding sites surveyed. From these larvae, 2,199 imagos emerged, giving an emergence rate equal to 37.7%. Nine species belonging to three genera were identified. The genus Anopheles with 1,828 larvae represented 83.1% of the total. Five anophelinae species were identified. An. ziemanni was the most abundant species with 751 larvae (32.5% of the total). An. funestus with 531 larvae represented 24.1% of the total. Larvae from this species were collected in river with raised vegetation and in irrigated rice field at transplanting and cut stages. About 559 larvae of An. gambiae representing 25.4% of the total were collected from artificial breeding sites, particularly in rice fields after the planting stage. Additionally, 38,626 anthropophilic mosquitoes were collected on 936 mannight catches in the study area. Thirty species belonging to seven genera were identified in the three agro-systems. In the villages of the agro-system R0, 2,675 mosquitoes were collected on landing catches. In the villages of the agro-ecosystem R1, 11,311 mosquitoes were collected, which was 4.2 higher than the number collected in the village of agro-system R0 for the same sampling effort. In the village of the agro-system R2, 24,640 mosquitoes were collected, which was 9.2 higher than the number collected in the agro-system R0 and 2.2 higher than the number collected in the agro-system R1. In the villages of agrosystems R0, R1 and R2, An. gambiae represented respectively 72.1%, 56% and 58.3% of anophelinae species collected, whereas An. funestus represented 25.6%, 40% and 31.9% of anophelinae species collected, in the same agrosystems, respectively. These results showed that areas of irrigated rice fields favoured the development of larvae from An. gambiae and An. funestus.
22396123	Finger millet (Eleusine coracana), a staple food in semi-arid parts of the world, is a rich source of nutrients and bioactive components comparable to rice and wheat but with higher fibre content. Unprocessed and processed finger millet (whole flour (WFM), sieved flour (SFM), wafers and vermicelli with altered matrices (added Fe or Zn or reduced fibre)) were analysed for chemical composition, bioaccessible Fe, Zn and Ca, in vitro digestible starch (IVSD) and protein (IVPD) and bioactive components (polyphenols and flavonoids). WFM and SFM flours differed significantly in their composition. Sieving decreased the content of both nutrients and antinutrients in WFM but increased their digestibility/bioaccessibility. WFM products with Zn and Fe showed highest IVPD, whereas SFM products with Fe showed highest IVSD. Products with externally added Fe and Zn showed maximum bioaccessibility of Fe and Zn respectively. WFM had the highest levels of total polyphenols and flavonoids, 4.18 and 15.85 g kg⁻¹ respectively; however, bioaccessibility was highest in SFM vermicelli. The availability of nutrients and bioactive components was influenced by both processing methods and compositional alterations of the food matrix in finger millet products, and bioaccessibility of all constituents was higher in vermicelli (wet matrix) than in wafers (dry matrix).
22396244	Pyrazosulfuron ethyl, a new rice herbicide belonging to the sulfonylurea group, has recently been registered in India for weed control in rice crops. Many field experiments revealed the bioefficacy of this herbicide; however, no information is available on the persistence of this herbicide in paddy soil under Indian tropical conditions. Therefore, a field experiment was undertaken to investigate the fate of pyrazosulfuron ethyl in soil and water of rice fields. Persistence studies were also carried out under laboratory conditions in sterile and non-sterile soil to evaluate the microbial contribution to degradation. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of pyrazosulfuron ethyl gave a single sharp peak at 3.41 min. The instrument detection limit (IDL) for pyrazosulfuron ethyl by HPLC was 0.1 µg mL(-1) , with a sensitivity of 2 ng. The estimated method detection limit (EMDL) was 0.001 µg mL(-1) and 0.002 µg g(-1) for water and soil respectively. Two applications at an interval of 10 days gave good weed control. The herbicide residues dissipated faster in water than in soil. In the present study, with a field-soil pH of 8.2 and an organic matter content of 0.5%, the pyrazosulfuron ethyl residues dissipated with a half-life of 5.4 and 0.9 days in soil and water respectively. Dissipation followed first-order kinetics. Under laboratory conditions, degradation of pyrazosulfuron ethyl was faster in non-sterile soil (t(1/2) = 9.7 days) than in sterile soil (t(1/2) = 16.9 days). Pyrazosulfuron ethyl is a short-lived molecule, and it dissipated rapidly in field soil and water. The faster degradation of pyrazosulfuron in non-sterile soil than in sterile soil indicated microbial degradation of this herbicide.
22396460	Despite its central role in the adaptation and microevolution of traits, the genetic architecture of phenotypic plasticity, i.e. multiple phenotypes produced by a single genotype in changing environments, remains elusive. We know little about the genes that underlie the plastic response of traits to the environment, their number, chromosomal locations and genetic interactions as well as environment impact on their effects. Here we review key statistical approaches for analyzing the genetic variation of phenotypic plasticity due to genotype-environment interactions and describe the implementation of a dynamic model to map specific quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that affect the gradient expression of a quantitative trait across a range of environments. This dynamic model is distinct by incorporating mathematical aspects of phenotypic plasticity into a QTL mapping framework, thereby better unraveling the quantitative attribute of trait response to the environment. By testing the curve parameters that specify environment-dependent trajectories of the trait, the model allows a series of fundamental hypotheses to be tested in a quantitative way about the interplay between gene action/interaction and environmental sensitivity. The model can also make the dynamic prediction of genetic control over phenotypic plasticity within the context of changing environments. We demonstrate the usefulness of the model by reanalyzing a QTL data set for rice, gleaning new insights into the genetic basis for phenotypic plasticity in plant height growth.
22396650	Rice tungro disease is caused by synergistic interaction of an RNA picorna-like virus Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) and a DNA pararetrovirus Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV). It is spread by insects owing to an RTSV-encoded transmission factor. RTBV has evolved a ribosome shunt mechanism to initiate translation of its pregenomic RNA having a long and highly structured leader. We found that a long leader of RTSV genomic RNA remarkably resembles the RTBV leader: both contain several short ORFs (sORFs) and potentially fold into a large stem-loop structure with the first sORF terminating in front of the stem basal helix. Using translation assays in rice protoplasts and wheat germ extracts, we show that, like in RTBV, both initiation and proper termination of the first sORF translation in front of the stem are required for shunt-mediated translation of a reporter ORF placed downstream of the RTSV leader. The base pairing that forms the basal helix is required for shunting, but its sequence can be varied. Shunt efficiency in RTSV is lower than in RTBV. But in addition to shunting the RTSV leader sequence allows relatively efficient linear ribosome migration, which also contributes to translation initiation downstream of the leader. We conclude that RTSV and RTBV have developed a similar, sORF-dependent shunt mechanism possibly to adapt to the host translation system and/or coordinate their life cycles. Given that sORF-dependent shunting also operates in a pararetrovirus Cauliflower mosaic virus and likely in other pararetroviruses that possess a conserved shunt configuration in their leaders it is tempting to propose that RTSV may have acquired shunt cis-elements from RTBV during their co-existence.
22396751	The long-tailed pygmy rice rat Oligoryzomys longicaudatus (Sigmodontinae), the major reservoir of Hantavirus in Chile and Patagonian Argentina, is widely distributed in the Mediterranean, Temperate and Patagonian Forests of Chile, as well as in adjacent areas in southern Argentina. We used molecular data to evaluate the effects of the last glacial event on the phylogeographic structure of this species. We examined if historical Pleistocene events had affected genetic variation and spatial distribution of this species along its distributional range. We sampled 223 individuals representing 47 localities along the species range, and sequenced the hypervariable domain I of the mtDNA control region. Aligned sequences were analyzed using haplotype network, bayesian population structure and demographic analyses. Analysis of population structure and the haplotype network inferred three genetic clusters along the distribution of O. longicaudatus that mostly agreed with the three major ecogeographic regions in Chile: Mediterranean, Temperate Forests and Patagonian Forests. Bayesian Skyline Plots showed constant population sizes through time in all three clusters followed by an increase after and during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM; between 26,000-13,000 years ago). Neutrality tests and the "g" parameter also suggest that populations of O. longicaudatus experienced demographic expansion across the species entire range. Past climate shifts have influenced population structure and lineage variation of O. longicaudatus. This species remained in refugia areas during Pleistocene times in southern Temperate Forests (and adjacent areas in Patagonia). From these refugia, O. longicaudatus experienced demographic expansions into Patagonian Forests and central Mediterranean Chile using glacial retreats.
22397531	Construction of transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) is of priority concern in systems biology. Numerous high-throughput approaches, including microarray and next-generation sequencing, are extensively adopted to examine transcriptional expression patterns on the whole-genome scale; those data are helpful in reconstructing TRNs. Identifying transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) in a gene promoter is the initial step in elucidating the transcriptional regulation mechanism. Since transcription factors usually co-regulate a common group of genes by forming regulatory modules with similar TFBSs. Therefore, the combinatorial interactions of transcription factors must be modeled to reconstruct the gene regulatory networks. Description For systems biology applications, this work develops a novel database called Arabidopsis thaliana Promoter Analysis Net (AtPAN), capable of detecting TFBSs and their corresponding transcription factors (TFs) in a promoter or a set of promoters in Arabidopsis. For further analysis, according to the microarray expression data and literature, the co-expressed TFs and their target genes can be retrieved from AtPAN. Additionally, proteins interacting with the co-expressed TFs are also incorporated to reconstruct co-expressed TRNs. Moreover, combinatorial TFs can be detected by the frequency of TFBSs co-occurrence in a group of gene promoters. In addition, TFBSs in the conserved regions between the two input sequences or homologous genes in Arabidopsis and rice are also provided in AtPAN. The output results also suggest conducting wet experiments in the future. The AtPAN, which has a user-friendly input/output interface and provide graphical view of the TRNs. This novel and creative resource is freely available online at http://AtPAN.itps.ncku.edu.tw/.
22397636	Structural, electronic, and energetic characteristics of tricin, tricin-4'-O-(erythro-β-guaiacylglyceryl)ether (TEGE), and tricin-4'-O-(threo-β-guaiacylglyceryl)ether (TTGE), isolated from "Njavara" rice bran have been studied using DFT to explain their experimentally determined radical scavenging activity (EC(50) values) in comparison with known standards such as quercetin, myricetin, and catechin. Among the three mechanisms proposed for explaining the antioxidant activity, proton coupled-electron transfer (PC-ET), sequential proton loss electron transfer (SPLET), and electron transfer-proton transfer (ET-PT), our results support the second one. The O-H bond dissociation enthalpy (BDE) and the spin density on the oxygen with the radical character are excellent descriptors of radical scavenging activity. BDE (in kcal/mol) increased in the order myricetin (74.6) < quercetin (78.1) < catechin (78.3) < tricin (81.5) < TTGE (90.6) < TEGE (91.1), while the EC(50) increased exponentially with increase in BDE, 20.51, 42.98, 45.07, 90.39, 208.01, and 352.04 μg/mL for myricetin, quercetin, catechin, tricin, TTGE, and TEGE, respectively.
22399582	Flowering time of rice depends strongly on photoperiodic responses. We previously identified a quantitative trait locus, Heading date 17 (Hd17), that is associated with a difference in flowering time between Japanese rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars. Here, we show that the difference may result from a single nucleotide polymorphism within a putative gene that encodes a homolog of the Arabidopsis EARLY FLOWERING 3 protein, which plays important roles in maintaining circadian rhythms. Our results demonstrate that natural variation in Hd17 may change the transcription level of a flowering repressor, Grain number, plant height and heading date 7 (Ghd7), suggesting that Hd17 is part of rice's photoperiodic flowering pathway.
22400611	Fading is the time-dependent variation in transmitted signal strength through a complex medium due to interference or temporally evolving multipath scattering. In this paper we use random matrix theory (RMT) to establish a first-principles model for fading, including both universal and nonuniversal effects. This model provides a more general understanding of the most common statistical models (Rayleigh fading and Rice fading) and provides a detailed physical basis for their parameters. We also report experimental tests on two ray-chaotic microwave cavities. The results show that our RMT model agrees with the Rayleigh and Rice models in the high-loss regime, but there are strong deviations in low-loss systems where the RMT approach describes the data well.
22401143	An enzymatic method based on hydrolysis of starch by amyloglucosidase and measurement of d-glucose released by glucose oxidase-peroxidase was developed to measure both gelatinized starch and hydrolyzable starch in situ of dried starchy products. Efforts focused on the development of sample handling steps (particle size reduction of dry samples followed by a unique mechanical resolubilization step) prior to the enzymatic hydrolysis using native and fully gelatinized flours of corn and rice. The new steps, when optimized, were able to maximize resolubilization of gelatinized/retrograded starch while minimizing solubilization of native starch in dried samples, thus effectively addressing issues of insusceptibility of retrograded starch and susceptibility of native starch to enzymatic attacks and eliminating the need to isolate starch from dry samples before using an enzymatic method. Various factors affecting these and other steps were also investigated, with the objectives to simplify the procedures and reduce errors. Results are expressed as the percentage of the total starch content. The proposed method, verified by measuring mixed samples of native and fully gelatinized flours of five grain species (corn, rice, barley, oat, and wheat) at different ratios, is simple, accurate, and reliable, with a relative standard deviation of less than 5%.
22401580	γ-Oryzanol (γ-ORZ) is a mixture of phytosteryl ferulates purified from rice bran oil. In this study, we examined whether γ-ORZ represents a suppressive effect on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced adhesion molecule expression on vascular endothelium. Treatment with LPS elevated the mRNA expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and E-selectin in bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs). Pretreatment with γ-ORZ dose-dependently decreased the LPS-mediated expression of these genes. Western blotting also revealed that pretreatment with γ-ORZ dose-dependently inhibited LPS-induced VCAM-1 expression in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Consistently, pretreatment with γ-ORZ dose-dependently reduced LPS-induced U937 monocyte adhesion to BAECs. In immunofluorescence, LPS caused nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) nuclear translocation in 40% of BAECs, which indicates NF-κB activation. Pretreatment with γ-ORZ, as well as its components (cycloartenyl ferulate, ferulic acid, or cycloartenol), dose-dependently inhibited LPS-mediated NF-κB activation. Collectively, our results suggested that γ-ORZ reduced LPS-mediated adhesion molecule expression through NF-κB inhibition in vascular endothelium.
22401906	A 2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propanesulfonic acid-co-ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (Fe₃O₄/SiO₂/P(AMPS-co-EGDMA)) copolymer was prepared and used as a magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE) medium for recovery of endogenous cytokinins (CKs) from plant extracts. This magnetic porous polymer was characterized by electron microscopy, nitrogen sorption experiments, elemental analysis and Fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy. It was demonstrated to have high extraction capacity toward CKs in plants due to its specificity, surface area and porous structure. Coupled with hydrophilic interaction chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HILIC-MS/MS), a rapid, simple, and effective MSPE-HILIC-MS/MS analytical method for the quantitative analysis of endogenous CKs in Oryza sativa (O. sativa) roots was successfully established. Good linearities were obtained for all CKs investigated with correlation coefficients (R²>0.9975. The results showed that LODs (S/N=3) were ranged from 0.18 to 3.65 pg mL⁻¹. Reproducibility of the method was obtained with intra-day and inter-day relative standard deviations (RSDs) less than 16.1% and the recoveries in plant samples ranged from 72.8% to 115.5%. Finally, the MSPE-HILIC-MS/MS method was applied to several plant samples, and the amounts of endogenous CKs in O. sativa roots, leaves and Arabidopsis thaliana (A. thaliana) were successfully determined.
22402881	A hydroponic experiment was conducted to determine the possible effect of exogenous glutathione (GSH) in alleviating chromium (Cr) stress through examining plant growth, chlorophyll contents, antioxidant enzyme activity, and lipid peroxidation in rice seedlings exposed to Cr toxicity. The results showed that plant growth and chlorophyll content were dramatically reduced when rice plants were exposed to 100 μM Cr. Addition of GSH in the culture solution obviously alleviated the reduction of plant growth and chlorophyll content. The activities of some antioxidant enzymes, including superoxide dismutase, catalase (CAT) and glutathione reductase in leaves, and CAT and glutathione peroxidase in roots showed obvious increase under Cr stress. Addition of GSH reduced malondialdehyde accumulation and increased the activities of these antioxidant enzymes in both leaves and roots, suggesting that GSH may enhance antioxidant capacity in Cr-stressed plants. Furthermore, exogenous GSH caused significant decrease of Cr uptake and root-to-shoot transport in the Cr-stressed rice plants. It can be assumed that GSH is involved in Cr compartmentalization in root cells.
22403009	An association analysis on the genetic variability for silica concentration in rice hulls was performed using a "Mini-Core" set of 174 accessions representative of the germplasm diversity found in the USDA world collection of rice. Hull silica concentration was determined in replicated trials conducted in two southern states in the USA and was analyzed for its association with 164 genome-wide DNA markers. Among the accessions, the average silica concentration ranged from 120 to 251 mg g(-1). Ample variation was seen within each of the five sub-populations of rice, as well as the 14 geographic regions that the accessions originated from. There was also an effect due to location and accession × location (G × E) interaction demonstrating the importance of assessing silica concentration across multiple environments. Twelve markers on ten chromosomes were significantly associated with hull silica concentration. Six markers (RM5644, RM5371, RM1335, RM283, RM263, and RM178) corroborated quantitative trait locus for silica concentration identified in other mapping studies. Our results provide germplasm and genetic markers that will assist breeding efforts to develop cultivars that have either high or low hull silica concentration. High silica hulls are good raw material for silica based industrial compounds, while low silica hulls are more biodegradable.
22403030	Plant microRNAs (miRNAs) act as negative regulators of gene expression by slicing target transcripts or inhibiting translation. A number of miRNAs play important roles in development. In order to investigate the potential function of miRNAs during male gametogenesis in rice, we obtained both gene and small RNA expression profiles by combining microarray and high-throughput sequencing technologies. From the microarray datasets, 2,925 male gametophyte-specific genes were identified, including 107 transcription factors and three significant Argonaute genes (AGO12, AGO13, and AGO17). From the sRNA-Seq datasets, 104 unique miRNAs (miRus) were identified, including 47 known miRus and 57 novel miRus; interestingly, most of the new miRus are pollen-specific and not conserved among species. Furthermore, an interactive network of miRNA-target was constructed based on the two datasets. By employing enrichment analysis, the miRNA-regulated targets were found to be involved in both the up and down pathways, but predominantly in the down pathways, including 37 GO biological processes and 32 KEGG pathways. These findings indicate that miRNAs play a broad regulatory role during male gametophyte development in rice.
22403871	Development of highly efficient and reproducible plant regeneration system has tremendous potential to provide improved technology to assist in genetic transformation of indica rice cultivars for their further exploitation in selection. For the development of a highly reproducible regeneration system through somatic embryogenesis, mature embryos of highly popular rice cultivars i.e., Govind (for rainfed areas), Pusa Basmati-1 (aromatic basmati) and Jaya (for irrigated areas) were used. Optimum callus formation (%) to MS medium supplemented with 2, 4-D was obtained at 12.0 microM in Govind, 14.0 microM in Jaya and 15.0 microM in Pusa Basmati-1. All the cultivars showed good proliferation on MS medium without hormone. In Govind, highest embryogenic response was observed in MS medium supplemented with 2, 4-D (0.4 microM) + kinetin (0.4 microM), while in Pusa Basmati-1 with 2, 4-D (0.4 microM) + kinetin (2.0 microM) and in Jaya on hormone-free MS medium. Excellent embryo regeneration in Govind was observed on MS medium supplemented with low concentrations (1.1 microM) of BAP or hormone-free MS medium, while in Pusa Basmati-1 and Jaya embryogenesis was observed on MS medium supplemented with higher concentration of BAP (2.2 microM). Similarly, maximum plantlets with proliferated roots were observed in Govind on hormone-free MS medium, while in Pusa Basmati-1 and Jaya on MS medium supplemented with high concentration of NAA (4.0 microM). Developed plantlets were further successfully acclimatized and grown under pot culture up to maturity. Further the yield potential of in vitro developed plants was accessed at par to the direct seeded one under pot culture. Present, protocol standardizes somatic embryogenesis and efficient regeneration of agronomically important, high yielding and diverse indica rice cultivars which can be utilized as an efficient tool for molecular studies and genetic transformation in future.
22403913	The publication of an article on the global asbestos industry in April 2011 provided a fitting reminder of the contradictory forces engaged in the international struggle over asbestos. In his essay, author James Rice wrote: "Asbestos is now widely recognized as an occupational hazard and an ambient environmental contaminant....[Nevertheless] production and consumption appear to have stabilized and, indeed, have been increasing in recent years". A pertinent question to ask, and one often posed by ban-asbestos campaigners, is, why has the developing world seen an escalation of asbestos consumption in the face of ever more knowledge about the deadly risks associated with its use? After all, human beings have an extraordinary capacity to learn from their mistakes. A child who has burned his finger on an open flame will be wary of repeating the experience. Why, then, do governments, consumers, workers, and members of the public refrain from acting, when the dangers of not doing so are so widely known? The answer is to be found in the complex interaction of asbestos industry stakeholders, government officials, diplomatic representatives, politicians, and professional advisors; the dirty dealings engaged in by the global band of asbestos profiteers rival anything you will have read about "Big Tobacco". A good place to begin the unraveling of the industry's machinations is Mexico.
22404613	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is a typical member of the Tenuivirus genus, which is transmitted mainly by the small brown planthopper (SBPH) in a persistent, circulative-propagative manner. At present, expression levels of viral genes in rice and in SBPH remain unclear. In this study, we investigated RSV gene expression in RSV-infected rice tissues and in viruliferous SBPH using a sensitive and reliable real-time quantitative PCR (Q-PCR) method. The results revealed that NS3 gene exhibited the highest abundant expression in both, rice plants and SBPH. Disease-specific protein (SP) gene was the only gene with highest expression in rice, but not in SBPH. The expression levels of other genes were lower than SP and approximately equal to each other in both, in rice and SBPH. RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) in SBPH was present in a notably low level. Furthermore, our results also provided a basis for further investigation on how RSV coordinates its own gene expression in the interactions with its plant and insect hosts.
22404867	In greenhouse experiments, Aychade, a fragrant rice variety, was grown under one level of salt solution (EC of 3800 ± 400 μS·cm(-1)) sufficient to induce salt stress in rice. Timing and duration of salt solution application varied according to the growth stages. 2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), a characteristic flavor compound of fragrant rice as well as biogenetically related compounds, proline, and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were quantified. Salt treatments induced 2AP synthesis in the leaves, but the increase was often higher in the vegetative phase. This increase was correlated with proline level but not with that of GABA. Interestingly the grains from all the salt treated plants contained significantly higher levels of 2AP (733-998 μg·kg(-1)) than those from the control (592 μg·kg(-1)). The highest 2AP synthesis occurred when the plants were subjected to salt treatment during whole vegetative or reproductive phases. However in the latter case crop yield decreased significantly.
22406854	The release of wastewater from various land uses is threatening the quality of surface water. Different land uses pose varying degrees of danger to water resources. The hazardous extent of each activity depends on the amount and characteristics of the wastewater. The concept of the contamination potential index (CPI) of an activity is introduced and applied here. The index depends on the quantity of wastewater from a single source and on various chemicals in the waste whose concentrations are above allowable standards. The CPI concept and the land use impact assessment are applied to the surface water conditions in Nakhon Nayok Province in the central region of Thailand. The land uses considered in this study are residential area, industrial zone, in-season and off-season rice farming, and swine and poultry livestock. Multiple linear regression analysis determines the impact of the CPIs of these land uses on certain water quality characteristics, i.e., total dissolved solids, electrical conductivity, phosphate, and chloride concentrations, using CPIs and previous water quality measurements. The models are further verified according to the current CPIs and measured concentrations. The results of the backward and forward modeling show that the land uses that affect water quality are off-season rice farming, raising poultry, and residential activity. They demonstrate that total dissolved solids and conductivity are reasonable parameters to apply in the land use assessment.
22407108	A conventional process for ethanol production involving liquefaction followed by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) under the yeast fermentation conditions, was investigated at 30 and 35% dry solid (DS) of Indian broken rice and pearl millet feedstocks. The study followed the typical conventional process currently in use by the Indian Ethanol Industry. Liquefaction was carried out using a thermostable alpha amylase, and whereas SSF with a glucoamylase with additional side activities of pullulanase and protease under the yeast fermentation conditions. To measure the enzyme efficacy in the liquefaction process, fermentable sugar and liquefact solubility (brix) were monitored at the end of the liquefaction process. The liquefact was subjected to SSF with yeast. Addition of an acid fungal protease at a concentration of 0.1 kg per metric ton of grain during SSF was observed to accelerate yeast growth and ultimately, ethanol yield with both feedstocks. With both concentrations of feedstocks, the fermentation efficiency and ethanol recovery were determined. This study assesses the potential of these enzymes for ethanol production with higher dry solid concentration (≥30% w/w DS) of both these feedstocks in the conventional process to achieve higher plant throughput without compromising fermentation efficiency and ethanol recovery.
22407417	The aims of the present study are to investigate the effects of Ce(3+) on the growth and some antioxidant metabolisms in rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L. cv Shengdao 16). The rice was treated with 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 mM Ce(3+), respectively. The growth index of rice was measured. The chlorophyll content; catalase, superoxide dismutase, and peroxidase activities; and the level of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), superoxide anion (O (2) (·-)), and malondialdehyde were assayed. The accumulation of Ce(3+) and the uptake of mineral nutrition elements were analyzed with ICP-SF-MS. Hormetic effects of Ce(3+) on the growth and some antioxidant metabolisms were found in the roots and shoots of rice. The roots can accumulate a much higher content of Ce(3+) than shoots and Ce(3+) mainly located in the cell wall of roots. Moreover, the uptake of K, Mg, Ca, Na, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, and Mo in the roots and shoots was affected with the exposure of different Ce(3+) treatments, which indicated that Ce(3+) affected the nutritional status of roots and shoots and further affected the growth of rice. The appropriate amount of Ce(3+) improved the defense system and growth of rice. The roots can accumulate a much higher content of Ce(3+) than shoots. Moreover, the uptake of K, Mg, Ca, Na, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, and Mo in the roots and shoots was affected with the exposure of different Ce(3+) treatments.
22407738	Nutrition and nutritional status can influence the development, maintenance and optimal functioning of the immune system. Oryzanol (OZ), a commercially important bioactive phytochemical component of rice bran oil, has generated global interest on account of its several beneficial physiological effects on human health. The aim of the present investigation was to examine the effect of OZ, isolated from crude rice bran oil (cRBO), on the regulation of the immune response in experimental animal models. The isolated OZ was identified with respect to the standard by melting point determination, thin-layer chromatography (TLC), UV-visible spectrophotometry and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Cellular immunity in rats was assessed by carbon clearance assay, delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response and cyclophosphamide-induced myelosuppression, whereas humoral immunity was analysed by haemagglutinating antibody (HA) titre assay. Oryzanol (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg, p.o.) evoked a significant increase in antibody titre values in the haemagglutination test and potentiated the delayed type hypersensitivity reaction induced by sheep red blood cells. It also significantly ameliorated myelosuppression in cyclophosphamide treated rats and showed an increase in phagocytic index in the carbon clearance assay. The findings from the study indicate that OZ possesses sufficient potential for augmenting immune activity by cellular and humoral mediated mechanisms.
22407808	In the present study, the reduced adsorption of propanil on black carbon (BC) influenced by dissolved organic matter (DOM) was verified to be closely related to DOM molecule size and loading mode. Two congenetic carbons, a rice-residue-derived BC and the reduced product (RC), were characterized by similar specific surface area and different surface properties. Reduced product exhibits higher adsorption of propanil and DOM than BC. A series of model DOMs, including tannic acid (TA), pentagalloylglucose (PA), 3-O-galloylmucic acid (OA), and gallic acid (GA), characterized by different molecule sizes and molecular weights, were used to evaluate the different inhibitory effects. The DOM adsorption (mmol/g) on BC and RC follows the order of GA > PA > OA > TA, whereas the reduction of propanil adsorption influenced by the model DOM follows the order of PA ≈ TA > OA ≈ GA. The suppressive degree is connected to their molecule sizes rather than to molecular weights. Tannic acid and PA weakened propanil adsorption more effectively than OA and GA because the large DOM molecules may hinder propanil molecules into the micropore regions. Because of the similar molecule size, TA and PA present a similar suppressive effect on propanil adsorption. The influence of the DOMs was greater when preloaded than when in competition with propanil. The preloading of macromolecules (TA and PA) and OA on the carbons may lead to secondary and primary micropore blocks, respectively. The preloading of GA may cause partial GA molecule sequestration in the primary micropore, thus leading to strong attenuation of propanil adsorption on the carbons.
22408071	Seed shattering is an important agricultural trait in crop domestication. SH4 (for grain shattering quantitative trait locus on chromosome 4) and qSH1 (for quantitative trait locus of seed shattering on chromosome 1) genes have been identified as required for reduced seed shattering during rice (Oryza sativa) domestication. However, the regulatory pathways of seed shattering in rice remain unknown. Here, we identified a seed shattering abortion1 (shat1) mutant in a wild rice introgression line. The SHAT1 gene, which encodes an APETALA2 transcription factor, is required for seed shattering through specifying abscission zone (AZ) development in rice. Genetic analyses revealed that the expression of SHAT1 in AZ was positively regulated by the trihelix transcription factor SH4. We also identified a frameshift mutant of SH4 that completely eliminated AZs and showed nonshattering. Our results suggest a genetic model in which the persistent and concentrated expression of active SHAT1 and SH4 in the AZ during early spikelet developmental stages is required for conferring AZ identification. qSH1 functioned downstream of SHAT1 and SH4, through maintaining SHAT1 and SH4 expression in AZ, thus promoting AZ differentiation.
22408075
22408076	The MADS box transcription factors are critical regulators of rice (Oryza sativa) reproductive development. Here, we here report the functional characterization of a rice MADS box family member, MADS29, which is preferentially expressed in the nucellus and the nucellar projection. Suppressed expression of MADS29 resulted in abnormal seed development; the seeds were shrunken, displayed a low grain-filling rate and suppressed starch biosynthesis, and contained abnormal starch granules. Detailed analysis indicated that the abnormal seed development is due to defective programmed cell death (PCD) of the nucellus and nucellar projection, which was confirmed by a TUNEL assay and transcriptome analysis. Further studies showed that expression of MADS29 is induced by auxin and MADS29 protein binds directly to the putative promoter regions of genes that encode a Cys protease and nucleotide binding site-Leu-rich repeat proteins, thereby stimulating the PCD. This study identifies MADS29 as a key regulator of early rice seed development by regulating the PCD of maternal tissues. It provides informative clues to elucidate the regulatory mechanism of maternal tissue degradation after fertilization and to facilitate the studies of endosperm development and seed filling.
22408737	Cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) is an AA genome Oryza species that was most likely domesticated from wild populations of O. rufipogon in Asia. O. rufipogon and O. meridionalis are the only AA genome species found within Australia and occur as widespread populations across northern Australia. The chloroplast genome sequence of O. rufipogon from Asia and Australia and O. meridionalis and O. australiensis (an Australian member of the genus very distant from O. sativa) was obtained by massively parallel sequencing and compared with the chloroplast genome sequence of domesticated O. sativa. Oryza australiensis differed in more than 850 sites single nucleotide polymorphism or indel from each of the other samples. The other wild rice species had only around 100 differences relative to cultivated rice. The chloroplast genomes of Australian O. rufipogon and O. meridionalis were closely related with only 32 differences. The Asian O. rufipogon chloroplast genome (with only 68 differences) was closer to O. sativa than the Australian taxa (both with more than 100 differences). The chloroplast sequences emphasize the genetic distinctness of the Australian populations and their potential as a source of novel rice germplasm. The Australian O. rufipogon may be a perennial form of O. meridionalis.
22409537	Tiller initiation and panicle development are important agronomical traits for grain production in Oryza sativa L. (rice), but their regulatory mechanisms are not yet fully understood. In this study, T-DNA mutant and RNAi transgenic approaches were used to functionally characterize a unique rice gene, LAGGING GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT 1 (LGD1). The lgd1 mutant showed slow growth, reduced tiller number and plant height, altered panicle architecture and reduced grain yield. The fewer unelongated internodes and cells in lgd1 led to respective reductions in tiller number and to semi-dwarfism. Several independent LGD1-RNAi lines exhibited defective phenotypes similar to those observed in lgd1. Interestingly, LGD1 encodes multiple transcripts with different transcription start sites (TSSs), which were validated by RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of 5' and 3' cDNA ends (RLM-RACE). Additionally, GUS assays and a luciferase promoter assay confirmed the promoter activities of LGD1.1 and LGD1.5. LGD1 encoding a von Willebrand factor type A (vWA) domain containing protein is a single gene in rice that is seemingly specific to grasses. GFP-tagged LGD1 isoforms were predominantly detected in the nucleus, and weakly in the cytoplasm. In vitro northwestern analysis showed the RNA-binding activity of the recombinant C-terminal LGD1 protein. Our results demonstrated that LGD1 pleiotropically regulated rice vegetative growth and development through both the distinct spatiotemporal expression patterns of its multiple transcripts and RNA binding activity. Hence, the study of LGD1 will strengthen our understanding of the molecular basis of the multiple transcripts, and their corresponding polypeptides with RNA binding activity, that regulate pleiotropic effects in rice.
22409981	Black carbon (BC) is a potential material for controlling hydrophobic organic contaminants in sediment because it has a high sorption capacity. In the present study, the sorption of pentachlorophenol (PCP) onto sediments supplemented with rice straw biochar (RC) and fly ash (FC) aged for different times and at temperatures were investigated. The sorption of PCP increased with increasing amounts of BC and decreased with aging time and storage temperature of the BC-supplemented sediments. The sorption of PCP onto RC-supplemented sediments was higher than those supplemented with FC regardless of whether or not BCs were aged in sediments. For aged sediments containing 2% BCs, the sorption capacity was 9.15- and 2.87-fold higher than that of FC when supplemented with RC aged at 25 and 45°C, respectively. Therefore, biochar is better than fly ash for controlling organic pollutants even when the RC was present in sediment for a long time.
22412187	Plants have evolved several mechanisms in order to cope with adverse environmental conditions. The transcription factors (TFs) belonging to the DREB1/CBF subfamily have been described as major regulators of the plant responses to different abiotic stresses. This study focused on the rice gene OsDREB1B, initially described as highly and specifically induced by cold. However, here it is shown that OsDREB1B is not only induced by low temperatures, but also by drought and mechanical stress. In order to identify novel TFs that bind to its promoter, a yeast one-hybrid system was used to screen a cold-induced cDNA expression library. Thereby seven novel Zn-finger TFs were identified that bind to the promoter of OsDREB1B. Among them, there were four Zn-finger homeodomain (ZF-HD) and three C(2)H(2)-type Zn-finger TFs. Gene expression studies showed that these TFs are differentially regulated at transcriptional level by different abiotic stress conditions, which is illustrative of the crosstalk between stress signalling pathways. Protein-protein interaction studies revealed the formation of homo- and heterodimers among the ZF-HD TFs identified, but not for the C(2)H(2)-type. Using a transactivation assay in Arabidopsis protoplasts, all the TFs identified repressed the expression of the reporter gene, driven by the promoter of OsDREB1B. This assay also showed that the dimerization observed between the ZF-HD TFs may play a role on their transactivation activity. The results here presented suggest a prominent role of Zn-finger TFs in the regulation of OsDREB1B.
22412935	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Stå;l), which belongs to Homopteran, Delphacidae, is one of the most serious and destructive pests of rice. Feeding BPH with homologous dsRNA in vitro can lead to the death of BPH, which gives a valuable clue to the prevention and control of this pest, however, we know little about its small RNA world. Small RNA libraries for three developmental stages of BPH (CX-male adult, CC-female adult, CY-last instar female nymph) had been constructed and sequenced. It revealed a prolific small RNA world of BPH. We obtained a final list of 452 (CX), 430 (CC), and 381 (CY) conserved microRNAs (miRNAs), respectively, as well as a total of 71 new miRNAs in the three libraries. All the miRNAs had their own expression profiles in the three libraries. The phylogenic evolution of the miRNA families in BPH was consistent with other species. The new miRNA sequences demonstrated some base biases. Our study discovered a large number of small RNAs through deep sequencing of three small RNA libraries of BPH. Many animal-conserved miRNA families as well as some novel miRNAs have been detected in our libraries. This is the first achievement to discover the small RNA world of BPH. A lot of new valuable information about BPH small RNAs has been revealed which was helpful for studying insect molecular biology and insect resistant research.
22413036	The effects of retrograded rice on body weight gain, gut functions, and hypolipidemic actions in rats were examined. When the retrograded rice was produced by repetitive heating and cooling cycles, it contained significantly higher amounts of resistant starch (13.9 ± 0.98%) than is found in common rice (9.1 ± 1.02%) (P < 0.05). Sprague-Dawley rats were fed either common rice powder or retrograded rice powder, and mean body weight gain was significantly lower in the retrograded rice group (P < 0.05). The liver weight of the retrograded rice group (14.5 ± 0.5 g) was significantly lower than that of the common rice group (17.1 ± 0.3 g, P < 0.05). However, the weights of other organs, such as the kidney, spleen, thymus, and epididymal fat pad were not significantly affected by rice feeding. Intestinal transit time tended to be lower in rats fed retrograded rice when compared to rats fed the common rice, but the difference was not significant. The retrograded rice diet significantly increased stool output when compared to that in the common rice powder diet (P < 0.05), whereas fecal moisture content (%) was significantly higher in the retrograded rice group (23.3 ± 1.2) than that in the common rice group (19.1 ± 1.2) (P < 0.05). The retrograded rice group had significantly lower plasma cholesterol (P < 0.05), liver cholesterol (P < 0.05), and triacylglycerol contents in adipose tissue (P < 0.05) when compared to those in the common rice group. In conclusion, retrograded rice had higher resistant starch levels compared with those of common rice powder, and it lowered body weight gain and improved lipid profiles and gut function in rats.
22413038	The objective of this study was to estimate the contents of dietary insoluble and soluble fiber in school meal. Samples of the school meals were collected from May to June in 2008. Three elementary schools and three middle schools around Masan area were selected for analysis. Dietary soluble and insoluble fibers in the school meals were analyzed directly by the AOAC method. From the initial experiment phase, we used cellulose and pectin as a standard of dietary fiber, and average recovery rate of insoluble fiber and soluble fiber was calculated. The recovery rate was observed, the cellulose 109.7±11.7% (range 90~150%) and pectin 77.8±10.8% (range 64.7~96.7%), respectively. The amounts of insoluble fiber and soluble fiber were analyzed in the total of 66 dishes, which included 7 kinds of cooked rice (bab) made with some cereal products and vegetables, 19 kinds of soup (guk) made with meats or vegetables, 11 kinds of kimchi, 21 kinds of entrées or side dishes, and 8 special dishes. Conclusively the school meal, per serving size, would provide above 75% KDRI of total dietary fibers through mainly soups and special menu, with the exception to fruits. In addition, it might be expected that children could consume more soluble fiber from the meals with the special dishes than from the regular ones.
22413042	The Korean diet, including breakfast, is becoming more Western, which could increase the risk of metabolic syndrome. Our aim was to assess whether breakfast patterns are associated with risk for metabolic syndrome in Korean adults. The study subjects (n = 371; 103 men, 268 women) were employees of Jaesang Hospital in Korea and their acquaintances, and all subjects were between 30 and 50 years old. The data collected from each subject included anthropometric measurements, three-day food intake, blood pressure (BP) and blood analyses. The three breakfast patterns identified by factor analysis were "Rice, Kimchi and Vegetables", "Potatoes, Fruits and Nuts" and "Eggs, Breads and Processed meat". The "Rice, Kimchi and Vegetables" pattern scores were positively correlated with systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) measurements in men (P < 0.05) and with serum triglyceride (TG) levels in women (P < 0.05). The "Eggs, Breads and Processed meat" pattern scores correlated positively with weight, body mass index (P < 0.05) and serum TGs (P < 0.01) in men. The "Potatoes, Fruits and Nuts" pattern was associated with lower risk of elevated BP (OR 0.49, 95% CI 0.28-0.88) and fasting glucose levels (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.26-1.00). In contrast, the "Eggs, Breads and Processed meat" pattern was associated with increased risk of elevated TGs (OR 2.06, 95% CI 1.06-3.98). Our results indicate that reducing the consumption of eggs, western grains and processed meat while increasing fruit, nut and vegetable intake for breakfast could have beneficial effects on decreasing metabolic syndrome risk in Korean adults.
22413094	Eragrostis tef (Zucc.), a member of the Chloridoideae subfamily of grasses, is one of the most important food crops in Ethiopia. Lodging is the most important production problem in tef. The rht1 and sd1 dwarfing genes have been useful for improving lodging resistance in wheat and rice, respectively, in what has been known as the "Green Revolution." All homologs of rht1 and sd1 were cloned and sequenced from 31 tef accessions collected from across Ethiopia. The allotetraploid tef genome was found to carry two rht1 homologs. From sequence variation between these two putative homologs, an approximate ancestral divergence date of 6.4 million years ago was calculated for the two genomes within tef. Three sd1 homologs were identified in tef, with unknown orthologous/paralogous relationships. The genetic diversity in the 31 studied accessions was organized into a relatively small number of haplotypes (2-4) for four of these genes, whereas one rht1 homeologue exhibited 10 haplotypes. A low level of nucleotide diversity was observed at all loci. Linkage disequilibrium analysis demonstrated strong linkage disequilibrium, extending the length of the five genes investigated (2-4 kb), with no significant decline. There was no significant correlation between haplotypes of any of these genes and their recorded site of origin.
22413771	A direct impact of chloroplastic protective energy dissipation (qE) on photosynthetic CO(2) assimilation has not been shown directly in plants in the absence of photoinhibition. To test this empirically we transformed rice to possess higher (overexpressors, OE) and lower (RNA interference, RNAi) levels of expression of the regulatory psbS gene and analysed CO(2) assimilation in transformants in a fluctuating measurement light regime. Western blots showed a several-fold difference in levels of PsbS protein between RNAi and OE plants with the wild type (WT) being intermediate. At a growth light intensity of 600 μmol m(-2) sec(-1) , the carboxylation capacity, electron transport capacity and dark adapted F(v)/F(m) (ratio of variable to maximum fluorescence) were inhibited in RNAi plants compared with WT and OE. The PsbS content had a significant impact on qE (measured here as non-photochemical quenching, NPQ) but the strongest effect was observed transiently, immediately following the application of light. This capacity for qE was several-fold lower in RNAi plants and significantly higher in OE plants during the first 10 min of illumination. At steady state the differences were reduced: notably at 500 μmol m(-2) sec(-1) all plants had the same NPQ values regardless of PsbS content. During a series of light-dark transitions the induction of CO(2) assimilation was inhibited in OE plants, reducing integrated photosynthesis during the light period. We conclude that the accumulation of PsbS and the resultant qE exerts control over photosynthesis in fluctuating light, showing that optimization of photoprotective processes is necessary for maximum photosynthetic productivity even in the absence of photoinhibitory stress.
22414443	The present study established the way in which plastidial α-glucan phosphorylase (Pho1) synthesizes maltodextrin (MD) which can be the primer for starch biosynthesis in rice endosperm. The synthesis of MD by Pho1 was markedly accelerated by branching enzyme (BE) isozymes, although the greatest effect was exhibited by the presence of branching isozyme I (BEI) rather than by isozyme IIa (BEIIa) or isozyme IIb (BEIIb). The enhancement of the activity of Pho1 by BE was not merely due to the supply of a non-reducing ends. At the same time, Pho1 greatly enhanced the BE activity, possibly by generating a branched carbohydrate substrate which is used by BE with a higher affinity. The addition of isoamylase to the reaction mixture did not prevent the concerted action of Pho1 and BEI. Furthermore, in the product, the branched structure was, at least to some extent, maintained. Based on these results we propose that the interaction between Pho1 and BE is not merely due to chain-elongating and chain-branching reactions, but occurs in a physically and catalytically synergistic manner by each activating the mutual capacity of the other, presumably forming a physical association of Pho1, BEI and branched MDs. This close interaction might play a crucial role in the synthesis of branched MDs and the branched MDs can act as a primer for the biosynthesis of amylopectin molecules.
22414560	Small-scale changes in gene order and orientation are common in plant genomes, even across relatively short evolutionary distances. We investigated the association of retrotransposons in and near rice gene pairs with gene pair conservation, inversion, rearrangement, and deletion in sorghum, maize, and Brachypodium. Copia and Gypsy LTR-retrotransposon insertions were found to be primarily associated with reduced frequency of gene pair conservation and an increase in both gene pair rearrangement and gene deletions. SINEs are associated with gene pair rearrangement, while LINEs are associated with gene deletions. Despite being more frequently associated with retrotransposons than convergent and tandem pairs, divergent gene pairs showed the least effects from that association. In contrast, convergent pairs were least frequently associated with retrotransposons yet showed the greatest effects. Insertions between genes were associated with the greatest effects on gene pair arrangement, while insertions flanking gene pairs had significant effects only on divergent pairs.
22415044	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression mainly by post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) and in some cases by transcriptional genes silencing (TGS). miRNAs play critical roles in developmental processes, nutrient homeostasis, abiotic stress and pathogen responses of plants. In contrast to the large number of miRNAs predicted in cereal model plant rice, only 148 miRNAs were predicted in sorghum till date (miRBase release 17). This suggested that miRNAs identified in sorghum is far from saturation. Hence, we developed a bioinformatics pipeline using an in-house PERL script and publicly available structure prediction tools to identify miRNAs and their target genes from publically available Expressed Sequence Tags (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS). About 1379 known and unique plant miRNAs from 33 different crops were used to predict new miRNAs in sorghum. We identified 31 new miRNAs belonging to 10 different miRNA families. We predicted 72 potential target genes for 31 miRNAs, and most of these target genes are predicted to be involved in plant growth and development.These newly identified miRNAs add to the growing database of miRNA and lay the foundation for further understanding of miRNA function in sorghum plant development.
22415685	The elite rice cultivar Yuejingsimiao 2 (YJ2) is characterized by a high level of grain quality and yield, and resistance against Magnaporthe oryzae. YJ2 showed 100% resistance to four fungal populations collected from Guangdong, Sichuan, Liaoning, and Heilongjiang Provinces, which is a higher frequency than that shown by the well-known resistance (R) gene donor cultivars such as Sanhuangzhan 2 and 28zhan. Segregation analysis for resistance with F(2) and F(4) populations indicated the resistance of YJ2 was controlled by multiple genes that are dominant or recessive. The putative R genes of YJ2 were roughly tagged by SSR markers, located on chromosomes 2, 6, 8, and 12, in a bulked-segregant analysis using genome-wide selected SSR markers with F(4) lines that segregated into 3 resistant (R):1 susceptible (S) or 1R:3S. The recessive R gene on chromosome 8 was further mapped to an interval ≈1.9 cM/152 kb in length by linkage analysis with genomic position-ready markers in the mapping population derived from an F(4) line that segregated into 1R:3S. Given that no major R gene was mapped to this interval, the novel R gene was designated as pi55(t). Out of 26 candidate genes predicted in the region based on the reference genomic sequence of the cultivar Nipponbare, two genes that encode a leucine-rich repeat-containing protein and heavy-metal-associated domain-containing protein, respectively, were suggested as the most likely candidates for pi55(t).
22416579	Chloroplast is a new hotspot in the field of plant transformation system of plant genetic engineering. Plastid transformation has several advantages: high expression, multiple expressed genes in a single transformation event, absence of gene silencing, et al. A series of elements for construction of dicistronic site-specific integration expression vector of rice chloroplast have been cloned, including trnl-trnA (rice chloroplast homologous recombination fragments), Prrn (16S rRNA operon promotor), PpsbA (the 3' untranslated region of the chloroplastpsbA gene), hptll gene (encoding hygromycin phosphotransferase) and EGFP (encoding enhanced green fluorescence protein). All the elements were constructed into a rice chloroplast dicistronic expression vector pCTE04 (-trnl-Prrn-RBS-hptlI-RBS-EGFP-PpsbA- trnA-). Then pCTE04 was introduced into chloroplasts of Dunaliella salina through particle bombardment. Strong green fluorescence was observed in chloroplasts of some bombarded Dunaliella salina cells under a stereo fluorescence microscope, indicating that pCTE04 could be expressed in Dunaliella salina chloroplasts transiently. It provides a solid foundation for further genetic engineering in rice chloroplast transformation.
22416585	This work demonstrated a fluorescence measurement method for rapid detection of bacteria and their counting by using water-soluble carbon quantum dots (CQDs) as a fluorescence marker while sewage water bacteria were detection target bacteria. Highly luminescent water-soluble CQDs were prepared by carbonizing waste part of rice straw materials in a furnace under in-sufficient air flow. Bacteria in a LB media with < 100 nm of water soluble CQDs were cultured for 30-40 minutes. The multi colored bacterial cell images were obtained by using fluorescence microscopy. Our results showed that CQDs prepared in water phase were highly luminescent, stable, and successfully conjugated with bacterial cell membrane only. Also we could count the total number of bacteria within a shortest time from any sample of environment.
22417217	Wheat (Triticum aestivum) is an important allergen source responsible for various clinical manifestations of allergy (i.e. food allergy, pollen allergy, respiratory allergy to flour-Baker's asthma). The objective of this study was the molecular and immunological characterization of new recombinant wheat allergens and to evaluate their usefulness for the diagnosis of allergy to wheat. A T. aestivum cDNA library was constructed and screened with serum IgE from patients suffering from wheat allergy to identify cDNAs coding for new wheat allergens. The allergen-encoding cDNAs were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. IgE reactivity of recombinant proteins was analysed in RAST-based, non-denaturing dot blot experiments and by ELISA with sera from wheat allergic patients and their allergenic activity was assessed in basophil degranulation experiments. We report the molecular characterization, recombinant expression and purification of five wheat allergens, a thioredoxin h isoform, glutathione transferase, 1-Cys-peroxiredoxin, profilin and dehydrin. Homologous proteins were identified by sequence comparisons in various plants. 1-Cys-peroxiredoxin appeared to be the most relevant of the newly identified wheat allergens according to prevalence of IgE recognition and results from basophil degranulation experiments. It showed IgE cross-reactivity with seed proteins from barley, rye, rice, maize, soy, oat and spelt. 1-Cys-peroxiredoxin, glutathione transferase and dehydrin were mainly recognized by patients with baker's asthma but not wheat-induced food allergy. The characterized recombinant wheat allergens may be useful for the development of serological tests which allow the discrimination of different clinical manifestations of wheat allergy.
22417350	The major phytochemicals and antioxidant properties of taro-scented rice bran (TaiNung 71; TN71) extracts using 3 different solvents are characterized. Some progress is realized in creating an economic value for rice bran that has long been considered an agricultural waste. Various solvent extracts reveal the presence of phenolic compounds, oryzanols, tocopherols, and tocotrienols. Ethyl acetate (EtOAc) can extract more oryzanols (1.55 ± 0.20 g/kg rice bran). Meanwhile, the methanol (MeOH) extract possesses a higher yield in total contents (15.42 ± 1.41 g/kg bran), which includes phenolic compounds (2.69 ± 0.29 g gallic acid equivalent/kg bran), tocopherols (251 ± 26 mg/kg bran) and tocotrienols (111 ± 4 mg/kg bran). The MeOH extract exhibits more effective antioxidant activity against various oxidative systems in vitro, including the inhibition of linoleic acid peroxidation (33.89%), scavenging of DPPH radicals (83.88%), and reducing power. It is found that the yield, total content in phenolic compounds and tocols of the extracts increase with increasing Synder's polarity value and viscosity, which can then be used as the indices in isolation of the desired rice bran phytochemicals extracts.
22417355	Emulsion (EFMO) containing purified menhaden oil (PMO) and soluble rice bran fiber (SRBF) was dried in a pilot scale spray dryer and produced microencapsulated PMO with SRBF (MFMO). EFMO had well isolated spherical droplets with the size of 1 to 10 μm and showed pseudoplastic fluid and viscoelastic characteristics. EFMO had lower lipid oxidation than the emulsion containing PMO without SRBF when both emulsions were stored at 20 and 40 °C for 88 h, which indicated that the SRBF reduced the lipid oxidation in the EFMO. The estimated MFMO production rate (3.45 × 10(-5) kg dry solids/s) was higher than the actual production rate (2.31 × 10(-5) kg dry solids/s). The energy required to spray dry the EFMO was 12232 kJ/kg of emulsion. EPA and DHA contents of MFMO were 11.52% and 4.51%, respectively. The particle size of 90% MFMO ranged from 8 to 62 μm, and the volume-length diameter of MFMO was 28.5 μm.
22417360	In this study, we assessed the extent of genotypic differences among rice genotypes for grain size, milling quality, cooking properties, protein, and the mineral contents of Fe, Zn, Mn, and Cu in unpolished rice varieties. Further, relationship among grain quality traits and mineral contents was determined. The results showed that the visible difference could be found in the mineral contents among rice genotypes studied. The contents of Fe and Zn in traditional genotypes were significantly higher than those of improved cultivars. There was a negative correlation between grain yield and mineral contents. However, Fe, Zn, Mn, and Cu contents appeared to be positively correlated. The relationships between mineral element contents and cooking quality traits viz., kernel length after cooking and kernel linear elongation ratio were positively correlated, indicated the role of micronutrients in cooking quality traits. Both Fe and Cu contents were correlated positively and significantly with head rice recovery. The eigen values of 1st 6 principal components (PC) were > 1.0. The present study suggests that breeding for high minerals will be probably realistic.
22417376	Malaysian population widely consumes the cereal-based foods, oilseeds, nuts, and spices in their daily diet. Mycotoxigenic fungi are well known to invade food products under storage conditions and produce mycotoxins that have threat to human and animal health. Therefore, determining toxigenic fungi and aflatoxin B(1) (AFB1) in foods used for human consumption is of prime importance to develop suitable management strategies and to minimize risk. Ninety-five food products marketed in Penang, Malaysia were randomly collected from different supermarkets and were analyzed for presence of Aspergillus spp. by agar plate assay and AFB1 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). A. flavus was the dominant fungi in all foods followed by A. niger. Fifty-five A. flavus strains were tested for their ability to produce aflatoxins on rice grain substrate. Thirty-six (65.4%) strains out of 55 produced AFB1 ranging from 1700 to 4400 μg/kg and 17 strains (31%) produced AFB2 ranging from 620 to 1670 μg/kg. Natural occurrence of AFB1 could be detected in 72.6% food products ranging from 0.54 to 15.33 μg/kg with a mean of 1.95 μg/kg. Maximum AFB1 levels were detected in peanut products ranging from 1.47 to 15.33 μg/kg. AFB1 levels detected in all food products were below the Malaysian permissible limits (<35 μg/kg). Aspergillus spp. and AFB1 was not detected in any cookies tested. Although this survey was not comprehensive, it provides valuable information on aflatoxin levels in foods marketed in Malaysia.
22417465
22417487	Reportedly policosanols (PCs) have various beneficial functionalities on health. A gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS/MS) with a low limit of detection (LOD), and high specificity, recovery, and precision was successfully established for the PC analysis in vegetable oils. The LODs for the PCs were in the range of 0.002 to 0.016 μg/mL. The relative standard deviation (RSD) for the repeated analysis of PCs was less than 3.356%. The mean recoveries for spiked heptacosanol and octacosanol in vegetable oil were 102.3% and 106.3%, respectively. The total PC contents in the vegetable oils varied from 3.01 to 427.83 mg/kg oil. Perilla seed, grape seed, and rice bran oils were found to be highly rich sources of PCs, containing 427.83, 245.15, and 171.17 mg PCs/kg oil, respectively. Corn, sesame, and soybean oils contained only a negligible quantity of PCs. The PC composition in vegetable oils was greatly source dependent. In perilla seed oil, octacosanol was the single most predominant component, representing 55.93% of the total PC. In grape seed oil, however, hexacosanol is the most abundant PC, followed by octacosanol, tetracosanol, and triacontanol in a decreasing order. The major PCs in rice bran oil were triacontanol, octacosanol, hexacosanol, and tetracosanol, which constituted over 87.3% of the total PC. This represents the 1st report on the composition and contents of PC in most vegetable oils analyzed here. The information might be used for the development of vegetable oil products with beneficial functionality.
22417496	Previous studies have shown that brown rice generates lower glycemic responses than white rice, a trait that may be beneficial in the dietary management of chronic diseases such as diabetes and hyperlipidemia. The objective of this study was to investigate influence of rice digestion on the physical properties of the gastric digesta that may further impact intestinal absorption. A dynamic stomach model, human gastric simulator, was used to simulate the gastric digestion of white and brown rice. The pH, solids content, and rheological properties of the gastric digesta, as well as the size distribution of particles were studied. Static soaking was conducted to reveal the changes in moisture absorption and texture in rice kernels during simulated gastric digestion, as affected by shaking and the acid in gastric juice. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to image the diffusion of gastric juice into the rice kernels. The results indicate that the bran layer on brown rice had a profound effect in digestion, as it inhibited the absorption of moisture and acid leading to decreased texture degradation, thus delaying the rice disintegration as well as dissolution and slowing emptying of solids. MRI is effective in exhibiting the diffusion of gastric juice as affected by gastric acid and the influence of bran. This study provided quantitative evidence regarding the manner in which structural differences between white and brown rice affect their gastric digestion. The study presented in this paper focuses on how the structural differences in white and brown rice affect their gastric digestion. This information may help consumers to better understand the health benefits associated with eating brown rice.
22417520	The staling of cakes enriched with untreated brans and endoxylanase-treated brans was evaluated by monitoring the changes in physicochemical, thermal, and sensorial properties of cakes during 7-d storage. Oat and rice bran were treated with different levels (0, 70, and 700 ppm) of an endoxylanase enzyme and added to cakes on 30% flour weight basis. Moisture losses, water activity, crumb firmness, starch retrogradation, and sensorial characteristics were used as staling indicators. Avrami-type equations were efficiently used for modeling the starch retrogradation kinetics, while linear models most adequately described crumb firming kinetics. Cake staling induced an increase in crumb firmness and enthalpy of amylopectin retrogradation, and a decrease in crumb moisture and sensory quality and acceptability scores of cakes. Oat bran-containing cakes better maintained their characteristics compared to the ones containing rice bran along the 7-d storage. Endoxylanase treatment of brans delayed the changes naturally induced during staling in crumb moisture content, amylopectin retrogradation enthalpy, and crumb firmness in the respective cakes. Deterioration of the sensorial characteristics was slower for the cakes containing endoxylanase-treated brans, as well. The level of endoxylanase treatment did not differentiate significantly (P < 0.05) any of the staling indicators. Overall, this study demonstrated that addition of endoxylanase-treated brans can result in cakes with improved nutritional characteristics and increased shelf life. The results of the study show the potential of using enzymes to modify underutilized food sources that can be properly incorporated in baked goods, improving their nutritional value, their quality characteristics, and providing longer shelf life. The developed procedure and results can be utilized by the bakery industry to make high fiber and low cost bakery products with improved sensorial characteristics that are appealing to the consumers.
22417733	Leaf ascorbic acid (ASA) level is thought to be an important trait conferring stress tolerance in plants, but definite evidence regarding its effectiveness in the breeding of stress tolerant crops is lacking. Therefore, the stress response of a rice TOS17 insertion mutant (ND6172) for a GDP-D-mannose-3',5'-epimerase gene, which is involved in ASA biosynthesis, was tested. Two fumigation experiments were conducted, in which rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) were exposed to (i) high ozone for ten days at the tillering stage (100 ppb, 7 h day⁻¹); and (ii) to four different ozone concentrations ranging from charcoal filtered air to 2.5 times the ambient concentration for the entire growth season. The mutant ND6172 had around 20-30% lower ASA level than the wild-type (Nipponbare), and exhibited a moderately higher level of visible leaf symptoms due to ozone exposure. Differences in ASA level between ND6172 and Nipponbare led to differential responses of the glutathione level, and the activities of glutathione reductase, ascorbate peroxidase, and dehydroascorbate reductase. With season-long ozone fumigation, yields and yield components were not negatively affected at ambient ozone level in both genotypes, but showed stronger decreases in ND6172 at higher ozone levels, especially at 2.5 times the ambient level. Similarly, the mature straw of ND6172 exhibited a higher degree of lignification at the 2.5 times ambient ozone level. In conclusion, a difference in leaf ASA level of around 20-30% is relevant for ozone tolerance in rice at levels exceeding the current ambient ozone concentrations.
22417899	To develop a quality assurance (QA) of XVI cone beam system (XVIcbs) for its optimal imaging-guided radiotherapy (IGRT) implementation, and to construe prostate tumor margin required for intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) if IGRT is unavailable. XVIcbs spatial accuracy was explored with a humanoid phantom; isodose conformity to lesion target with a rice phantom housing a soap as target; image resolution with a diagnostic phantom; and exposure validation with a Radcal ion chamber. To optimize XVIcbs, rotation flexmap on coincidency between gantry rotational axis and that of XVI cone beam scan was investigated. Theoretic correlation to image quality of XVIcbs rotational axis stability was elaborately studied. Comprehensive QA of IGRT using XVIcbs has initially been explored and then implemented on our general IMRT treatments, and on special IMRT radiotherapies such as head and neck (H and N), stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT), stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), and stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). Fifteen examples of prostate setup accounted for 350 IGRT cone beam system were analyzed. IGRT accuracy results were in agreement ± 1 mm. Flexmap 0.25 mm met the manufacturer's specification. Films confirmed isodose coincidence with target (soap) via XVIcbs, otherwise not. Superficial doses were measured from 7.2-2.5 cGy for anatomic diameters 15-33 cm, respectively. Image quality was susceptible to rotational stability or patient movement. IGRT using XVIcbs on general IMRT treatments such as prostate, SRT, SRS, and SBRT for setup accuracy were verified; and subsequently coordinate shifts corrections were recorded. The 350 prostate IGRT coordinate shifts modeled to Gaussian distributions show central peaks deviated off the isocenter by 0.6 ± 3.0 mm, 0.5 ± 4.5 mm in the X(RL)- and Z(SI)-coordinates, respectively; and 2.0 ± 3.0 mm in the Y(AP)-coordinate as a result of belly and bladder capacity variations. Sixty-eight percent of confidence was within ± 4.5 mm coordinates shifting. IGRT using XVIcbs is critical to IMRT for prostate and H and N, especially SRT, SRS, and SBRT. To optimize this modality of IGRT, a vigilant QA program is indispensable. Prostate IGRT reveals treatment accuracy as subject to coordinates' adjustments; otherwise a 4.5-mm margin is required to allow for full dose coverage of the clinical target volume, notwithstanding toxicity to normal tissues.
22418084	This work was aimed to produce lipopeptides by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens XZ-173 in solid state fermentation using agro-industrial byproducts. A central composite design was used to get the highest lipopeptides production. Results revealed that the optimal conditions for maximum lipopeptides production were 1.79% starch and 1.91% yeast extract by employing 5.58 g soybean flour and 3.67 g rice straw as the solid substrate with initial pH 7.5, moisture content 55% and a 10% inoculum level at 30°C for 2 days. Under these conditions, the experimental yield of lipopeptides reached 50.01 mg/gds, which was very close to the predicted value (49.91 mg/gds). At high concentration, the lipopeptides extracted from fermented substrates showed strong antibiotic activity against Rhizoctonia solani and Ralstonia solanacearum and certain emulsification but good emulsion stability. This is the first report on lipopeptides production that uses rice straw as a major substrate.
22418094	The rice BGlu1 β-D-glucosidase nucleophile mutant E386G is a glycosynthase that catalyzes the synthesis of cellooligosaccharides from α-d-glucopyranosyl fluoride (GlcF) donor and p-nitrophenyl (pNP) cellobioside (Glc2-pNP) or cello-oligosaccharide acceptors. When activity with other donors and acceptors was tested, the initial enzyme preparation cleaved pNP-β-D-glucopyranoside (Glc-pNP) and pNP-β-D-fucopyranoside (Fuc-pNP) to pNP and glucose and fucose, suggesting contamination with wild type BGlu1 β-glucosidase. The products from reaction of GlcF and Fuc-pNP included Fuc-β-(1→3)-Fuc-pNP, Glc-β-(1→3)-Fuc-pNP, and Fuc-β-(1→4)-Glc-β-(1→3)-Fuc-pNP, suggesting the presence of both wild type BGlu1 and its glycosynthase. Inhibition of the BGlu1 β-glucosidase activity within this preparation by cyclophellitol confirmed that the E386G glycosynthase preparation was contaminated with wild type BGlu1. Rice BGlu1 E386G-2, generated from a new construct designed to minimize back-mutation, showed glycosynthase activity without wild type hydrolytic or transglycosylation activity. E386G-2 catalyzed transfer of glycosyl residues from GlcF, α-L-arabinosyl fluoride, α-D-fucosyl fluoride, α-D-galactosyl fluoride, α-D-mannosyl fluoride, and α-D-xylosyl fluoride donors to Glc2-pNP acceptor. The synthetic products from the reactions of α-fucosyl fluoride and α-mannosyl fluoride donors were confirmed to result from addition of a β-(1→4)-linked glycosyl residue. Moreover, the E386G glycosynthase transferred glucose from GlcF donor to glucose, cellobiose, Glc-pNP, Fuc-pNP, pNP-β-D-galactopyranoside, and pNP-β-D-xylopyranoside acceptors, but little to pNP-β-D-mannopyranoside. Production of longer oligosaccharides occurred most readily on acceptors with an equatorial 4-OH. Elimination of wild type contamination thereby allowed a clear assessment of BGlu1 E386G glycosynthase catalytic abilities.
22419106	The role of flavonoids as the major red, blue, purple and brown pigments in plants has gained these secondary products a great deal of attention over the years. In this study, we characterized a rice inhibitor for brown furrows1 (ibf1) mutant. In the ibf1 mutant, brown pigments specifically accumulate in hull furrows during seed maturation and reach a maximum level in dry seeds. Higher amounts of total flavonoids and anthocyanin in hull may be responsible for the brown pigmentation of ibf1. The IBF1 gene, which encodes a similar kelch repeat-containing F-box protein, was isolated by map-based cloning approach. Real-time RT-PCR and GUS activity assays revealed that IBF1 specifically expressed in reproductive tissues. GFP-IBF1 fusion protein mainly localized in cytoplasm. The expression of some major structural enzymatic genes involved in flavonoids biosynthesis could be up- or down-regulated to some different extent in ibf1 mutant. Our data suggested that IBF1 as a suppressor could inhibit the brown pigmentation of rice hull furrows.
22419825	Seedling vigor, which is controlled by many quantitative trait loci (QTLs), is one of several important agronomic traits for direct-seedling rice systems. However, isolating these QTL genes is laborious and expensive. Here, we combined QTL mapping and microarray profiling to identify QTL genes for seedling vigor. By performing QTL mapping using 82 backcross inbred lines (BILs) of the Koshihikari (japonica) and Habataki (indica) cultivars for the rice initial growth, we identified two QTLs, early-stage plant development1/2 (qEPD1 and qEPD2), whose Koshihikari alleles promote plant height and/or leaf sheath length. Phenotypic analysis of the two substituted lines carrying the Habataki qEPD1 or qEPD2 allele revealed that qEPD2 functioned more dominantly for the initial growth of rice. From the microarray experiment, 55 and 45 candidate genes were found in the qEPD1 and qEPD2 genomic regions, which are expressed differentially between each substitution line (SL) and Koshihikari. Gibberellin 20 oxidase-2 (OsGA20ox2), which is identical to Semi Dwarf1 (SD1), was included among the 55 candidate genes of qEPD1, whereas its paralog, OsGA20ox1, was included among the 45 candidate genes of qEPD2. Consistently, introduction of the Koshihikari OsGA20ox1 allele into SL(qEPD2) increaseed its plant height and leaf sheath length significantly relative to the introduction of the Habataki OsGA20ox1 allele. Therefore, microarray profiling could be useful for rapidly screening QTL candidate genes. We concluded that OsGA20ox1 and OsGA20ox2 (SD1) function during the initial growth of rice, but OsGA20ox1 plays a dominant role in increasing plant height and leaf sheath length at the initial growth stage.
22419840	The issue of balanced nutrition is of great concern to human. Meat and fish are the best sources of protein. The affordability of these resources for people in developing countries is less. Thus, there is an increasing interest in pulses and its derivates as an alternative to fish and meat. Lectin and histone H1 are the most common proteins in various pulses and our interest is in identifying the dominant essential amino acids in them for use as supplements. However, actin and lectin are common among Oryza Sativa and cicer arietinum. We describe the amount of lectin and histone H1 in cicer arietinum, Lens culinaris and Pisum sativum in a comparative manner. cicer arietinum was found to contain more essential amino acids than Lens culinaris and Pisum sativum. The secondary structures of lectin and histone H1 protein were analyzed to gain functional inferences in these species. The comparative study shows the relatively poor presence of the amino acid methionine in most pulses. However, Oryza Sativa was found to contain sufficient methionine. The study shows that pulses (especially cicer arietinum) were a suitable alternative source to meat and fish for Lectin and Histone H1 balance. Hence, pulses could be suggested with rice for balanced protein diet.
22420070
22420260	Both chemical and biological methods are essential for control of insects, for example, lepidopterans, on rice. Thus, it is important to know the effect of chemicals on the biological control agents. In this study, we assessed the toxicity of commonly used insecticides on a biological control agent, Trichogramma japonicum Ahmead (an egg parasitoid of rice lepidopterans) by using a dry film residue method. Results showed that thirty insecticides from seven chemical classes exhibited various degree of toxicity to this parasitoid. Among the seven classes of chemicals tested, organophosphates (chlorpyrifos, fenitrothion, phoxim, profenofos, and triazophos) and carbamates (carbaryl, carbsulfan, isoprocarb, metolcarb, and promecarb) exhibited the highest intrinsic toxicity to T. japponicum, with an LC50 of 0.035 (0.029-0.044) to 0.49 (0.34-0.87) mg active ingredient (a.i.) L(-1), followed by antibiotics (abamectin, emamectin benzoate, and ivermectin), phenylpyrazoles (butane-fipronil, ethiprole, and fipronil), pyrethroids (cyhalthrin, cypermethrin, fenpropathrin, and lambda-cyhaothrin), and neonicotinoids (acetamiprid, imidacloprid, imidaclothiz, nitenpyram, thiacloprid, and thiamethoxam). Moreover, the insect growth regulator insecticides (chlorfluazuron, fufenozide, hexaflumuron and tebufenozide) exhibited the lowest toxicity to the wasps with an LC50 of 3,383 (2406-5499) to 30206 (23107-41008) mg ai. L(-1). Risk quotient analysis showed that phenylpyrazoles, pyrethroids, insect growth regulators, neonicotinoids (with the exception of thiamethoxam), and antibiotics (with the exception of abamectin) are classified as safe agents to the parasitoid, while organophosphates and carbamates are classified as slightly, moderately, or highly toxic agents to the parasitoid. The data presented in this paper provided useful information on the selection of compatible insecticides with T. japonicum.
22420996	While growing in the field, plants may encounter several different forms of abiotic stress simultaneously, rather than a single stress. In this study, we investigated the effects of calcium (Ca) deficiency on cadmium (Cd) toxicity in rice seedlings. Calcium deficiency alone decreased the length, fresh and dry weight, and the Ca concentration in shoots and roots. Also, the content of glutathione (GSH), the ratio of GSH/oxidized glutathione, and the activity of catalase were lower in Ca-deficient leaves compared to control leaves. Exogenous Cd caused a decrease in the contents of chlorophyll and protein, and induced oxidative stress. Based on these stress indicators, we found that Ca deficiency enhanced Cd toxicity in rice seedlings. Under exogenous Cd application, internal Cd concentrations were higher in Ca-deficient shoots and roots than in the respective controls. Moreover, we observed that Ca deficiency decreased heat-shock (HS) induced expression of HS protein genes Oshsp17.3, Oshsp17.7, and Oshsp18.0 in leaves thereby weakening the protection system and increasing Cd stress. In conclusion, Ca deficiency enhances Cd toxicity, and Ca may be required for HS response in rice seedlings.
22422393	The objective of this study was to compare two different rice simulation models--standalone (Decision Support System for Agrotechnology Transfer [DSSAT]) and web based (SImulation Model for RIce-Weather relations [SIMRIW])--with agrometeorological data and agronomic parameters for estimation of rice crop production in southern semi-arid tropics of India. Studies were carried out on the BPT5204 rice variety to evaluate two crop simulation models. Long-term experiments were conducted in a research farm of Acharya N G Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU), Hyderabad, India. Initially, the results were obtained using 4 years (1994-1997) of data with weather parameters from a local weather station to evaluate DSSAT simulated results with observed values. Linear regression models used for the purpose showed a close relationship between DSSAT and observed yield. Subsequently, yield comparisons were also carried out with SIMRIW and DSSAT, and validated with actual observed values. Realizing the correlation coefficient values of SIMRIW simulation values in acceptable limits, further rice experiments in monsoon (Kharif) and post-monsoon (Rabi) agricultural seasons (2009, 2010 and 2011) were carried out with a location-specific distributed sensor network system. These proximal systems help to simulate dry weight, leaf area index and potential yield by the Java based SIMRIW on a daily/weekly/monthly/seasonal basis. These dynamic parameters are useful to the farming community for necessary decision making in a ubiquitous manner. However, SIMRIW requires fine tuning for better results/decision making.
22422870	To summarise evidence on the association between white rice consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes and to quantify the potential dose-response relation. Meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. Searches of Medline and Embase databases for articles published up to January 2012 using keywords that included both rice intake and diabetes; further searches of references of included original studies. Included studies were prospective cohort studies that reported risk estimates for type 2 diabetes by rice intake levels. Relative risks were pooled using a random effects model; dose-response relations were evaluated using data from all rice intake categories in each study. Four articles were identified that included seven distinct prospective cohort analyses in Asian and Western populations for this study. A total of 13,284 incident cases of type 2 diabetes were ascertained among 352,384 participants with follow-up periods ranging from 4 to 22 years. Asian (Chinese and Japanese) populations had much higher white rice consumption levels than did Western populations (average intake levels were three to four servings/day versus one to two servings/week). The pooled relative risk was 1.55 (95% confidence interval 1.20 to 2.01) comparing the highest with the lowest category of white rice intake in Asian populations, whereas the corresponding relative risk was 1.12 (0.94 to 1.33) in Western populations (P for interaction=0.038). In the total population, the dose-response meta-analysis indicated that for each serving per day increment of white rice intake, the relative risk of type 2 diabetes was 1.11 (1.08 to 1.14) (P for linear trend<0.001). Higher consumption of white rice is associated with a significantly increased risk of type 2 diabetes, especially in Asian (Chinese and Japanese) populations.
22422873
22422935	Much progress has been made in our understanding of photoperiodic flowering of rice and the mechanisms underlying short-day (SD) promotion and long-day (LD) repression of floral induction. In this study, we identified and characterized the Ef7 gene, one of the rice orthologs of Arabidopsis EARLY FLOWERING 3 (ELF3). The ef7 mutant HS276, which was induced by γ-irradiation of the japonica rice cultivar 'Gimbozu', flowers late under both SD and LD conditions. Expression analyses of flowering time-related genes demonstrated that Ef7 negatively regulates the expression of Ghd7, which is a repressor of the photoperiodic control of rice flowering, and consequently up-regulates the expression of the downstream Ehd1 and FT-like genes under both SD and LD conditions. Genetic analyses with a non-functional Ghd7 allele provided further evidence that the delayed flowering of ef7 is mediated through the Ghd7 pathway. The analysis of light-induced expression of Ghd7 revealed that the ef7 mutant was more sensitive to red light than the wild-type plant, but the gate of Ghd7 expression was unchanged. Thus, our results show that Ef7 functions as a floral promoter by repressing Ghd7 expression under both SD and LD conditions.
22422941	The proper use of resistance genes (R genes) requires a comprehensive understanding of their genomics and evolution. We analyzed genes encoding nucleotide-binding sites and leucine-rich repeats in the genomes of rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and Brachypodium distachyon. Frequent deletions and translocations of R genes generated prevalent presence/absence polymorphism between different accessions/species. The deletions were caused by unequal crossover, homologous repair, nonhomologous repair, or other unknown mechanisms. R gene loci identified from different genomes were mapped onto the chromosomes of rice cv Nipponbare using comparative genomics, resulting in an integrated map of 495 R loci. Sequence analysis of R genes from the partially sequenced genomes of an African rice cultivar and 10 wild accessions suggested that there are many additional R gene lineages in the AA genome of Oryza. The R genes with chimeric structures (termed type I R genes) are diverse in different rice accessions but only account for 5.8% of all R genes in the Nipponbare genome. In contrast, the vast majority of R genes in the rice genome are type II R genes, which are highly conserved in different accessions. Surprisingly, pseudogene-causing mutations in some type II lineages are often conserved, indicating that their conservations were not due to their functions. Functional R genes cloned from rice so far have more type II R genes than type I R genes, but type I R genes are predicted to contribute considerable diversity in wild species. Type I R genes tend to reduce the microsynteny of their flanking regions significantly more than type II R genes, and their flanking regions have slightly but significantly lower G/C content than those of type II R genes.
22423594	Zinc is an important nutrient for plants, but it can be toxic at high concentrations. The solubility and speciation of Zn is controlled by many factors, especially soil pH and Eh, which can vary in lowland rice culture. This study determined Zn speciation and release kinetics in Cd-Zn cocontaminated alkaline and acidified paddy soils, under various flooding periods and draining conditions, by employing synchrotron-based techniques and a stirred-flow kinetic method. Results showed almost no change in Zn speciation and release kinetics in the two soils, although the soils were subjected to different flooding periods and draining conditions. The mineral phases in which Zn is immobilized in the soil samples were constrained by linear least squares fitting (LLSF) analyses of bulk X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) spectra. Only two main phases were identified by LLSF, i.e., Zn-layered double hydroxides (Zn/Mg-hydrotalcite-like, and ZnAl-LDH) and Zn-phyllosilicates (Zn-kerolite). Under all soil pHs, flooding, and draining conditions, less than 22% of Zn was desorbed from the soil after a two-hour desorption experiment. The information on Zn chemistry obtained in this study will be useful in finding the best strategy to control Cd and Zn bioavailability in the Cd-Zn cocontaminated paddy soils.
22423959	Previous studies have demonstrated that liposome-protein interactions can result in changes to the thermal stability of the protein. We utilized far-UV circular dichroism spectropolarimetry and fluorescence spectroscopy to investigate the interaction of 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DPPC) liposomes with two recombinant human serum albumins (rHSA). We demonstrate that rHSA expressed in Oryza sativa (OsrHSA) has improved secondary structure thermal stability compared to rHSA expressed in Pichia pastoris (PprHSA). A similar stability profile was observed when comparing bovine serum albumin (BSA) and defatted bovine serum albumin (dfBSA), suggesting the presence of fatty acids may be responsible for the improved stability of OsrHSA. Addition of DPPC liposomes reduced the thermal stability of both OsrHSA and BSA, but not of PprHSA or dfBSA. DPPC liposomes may disrupt stabilizing native fatty acids on OsrHSA and BSA.
22424066	The toxicity of Rac-metolachlor and S-metolachlor on rice (IIYou92, Oryza sativa L.) seedlings was determined and compared in a hydroponics experiment. The elongation of shoot, main root, and the number of lateral roots were inhibited in both Rac- and S-metolachlor treatments. The 96 h- IC50 of Rac- and S-metolachlor were 12.32 and 9.44 μM for shoot, and 4.69 and 1.75 μM for root, respectively. The content of chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b and total chlorophyll of leaf treated by Rac-metolachlor was higher than that treated by S-metolachlor. The activities of superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, cytochrome P450 2E1, glutathione S-transferase, and the content of glutathione increased after herbicide exposure, and the activities or the content was higher in the S-metolachlor treatment than in the exposure to Rac-metolachlor. Ultrastructural studies revealed that Rac- and S-metolachlor had adverse effects on leaf cells, and S-metolachlor treatment caused higher damage.
22424068	The interaction among the bensulfuron-methyl, growth of Italian ryegrass, and soil chemical/biochemical/microbiological parameters was investigated in a microcosm experiment. The bensulfuron-methyl added to the soil can be rapidly degraded by certain fungi and actinomycetes present in the original paddy rice soil. The growth of Italian ryegrass significantly accelerated the in-soil degradation of bensulfuron-methyl in its rhizosphere. The uptake of bensulfuron-methyl by ryegrass increased with increasing dosage level of bensulfuron-methyl. However, the phytoextraction of bensulfuron-methyl by ryegrass contributed insignificantly to the total removal of the soil bensulfuron-methyl. Within the dosage range set in this study, the root development of ryegrass was not adversely affected by the presence of the soil bensulfuron-methyl although the fresh biomass of shoot was slightly reduced in the higher dosage treatments. This can be attributed to the adsorption of the added bensulfuron-methyl by soil colloids and consequently the reduction of bensulfuron-methyl level in the soil pore water to a concentration sufficiently lower than the toxic level. The growth of ryegrass significantly increased soil pH and the activities of phosphatase and peroxidase but reduced the EC and the activities of urease in the rhizospheric soil.
22424573	In the Terai region, despite its ecological richness, the people have long suffered from a deficiency of micronutrients such as vitamin A, iron and zinc. The aim of this study was to investigate dietary and nutritional intakes among people in the Terai region of Nepal. The results were compared by sex and ethnicity. Food consumption surveys (one-day weighed records) were conducted among 114 people (55 Mushar and 59 Tharu). Nutritional intakes were calculated using Nepali food composition and other tables. The diet in the Terai region was characterized by a large amount of rice consumed with a tiny amount of curry or dal as a side dish. Intakes of vitamin A, iron, riboflavin and selenium were less than 50% of the recommended daily allowance irrespective of ethnicity or sex (with the exception of iron intake among Tharu males). Intakes of thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, phosphorus and zinc were higher among the Tharu than the Mushar, while intakes of selenium and iodine were higher among the Mushar than the Tharu. The nutritional significance of these differences was slight. Protein intake (per kg body weight) was lower in females than in males, while the energy-adjusted micronutrient intakes did not differ by sex. Intakes of vitamin A, iron, riboflavin and selenium were deficient among the participants. Intervention projects such as the introduction of kitchen gardens or fish farming may be effective, but will increase the degree of inequality between the two ethnic groups.
22425734	Rice consumption is one of the major pathways for As intake in populations that depend on a rice diet in several countries of South and South-east Asia. Pot experiments were undertaken to investigate the effects of water management (WM), arsenic (As) contaminated soil-water and Phosphorus (P) rates on As uptake in rice plants. There were 18 treatments comprising of three each of As rates (0, 20 and 40 mg kg(-1) soil) and P rates (0, 12.5 and 25 mg kg(-1) soil) and two WM (aerobic and anaerobic) strategies on winter (boro var. BRRI dhan 29) and monsoon (aman var. BRRI dhan 32) rice at the Wheat Research Center (WRC), Nashipur, Dinajpur, Bangladesh. Arsenic concentrations in rice grain and straw increased significantly (P ≤ 0.01) with the increasing As rates in the soil. Arsenic availability in soil pore-water solution was less (58%) under aerobic WM (redox potential-Eh=+135 to +138 mV; pH-6.50 at 24.3 °C) as compared to anaerobic WM (flooded: Eh=-41 to -76 mV; pH-6.43 at 23 °C). The highest total grain As content 2.23 ± 0.12 mg kg(-1) and 0.623 ± 0.006 mg kg(-1) was found in T(6) (P(12.5)As(40)-anaerobic) and T(9) (P(25)As(40)-anaerobic) in BRRI dhan 29 and BRRI dhan 32, respectively, which was significantly higher (41-45%) than in the same As and P treatments for pots under aerobic WM. The As content in rice straw (up to 24.7 ± 0.49 ppm in BRRI dhan 29, 17.3 ± 0.49 mg kg(-1) in BRRI dhan 32 with the highest As level) suggested that As can more easily be translocated to the shoots under anaerobic conditions than aerobic condition. BRRI dhan 29 was more sensitive to As than BRRI dhan 32. Under aerobic WM, P soil amendments reduced As uptake by rice plants. The study demonstrated that aerobic water management along with optimum P amendment and selection of arsenic inefficient rice varieties are appropriate options that can be applied to minimize As accumulation in rice which can reduce effects on human and cattle health risk as well as soil contamination.
22427359
22427867	Sheath blight (ShB) caused by the soil-borne pathogen Rhizoctonia solani is one of the most devastating diseases in rice world-wide. Global attention has focused on examining individual mapping populations for quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for ShB resistance, but to date no study has taken advantage of association mapping to examine hundreds of lines for potentially novel QTLs. Our objective was to identify ShB QTLs via association mapping in rice using 217 sub-core entries from the USDA rice core collection, which were phenotyped with a micro-chamber screening method and genotyped with 155 genome-wide markers. Structure analysis divided the mapping panel into five groups, and model comparison revealed that PCA5 with genomic control was the best model for association mapping of ShB. Ten marker loci on seven chromosomes were significantly associated with response to the ShB pathogen. Among multiple alleles in each identified loci, the allele contributing the greatest effect to ShB resistance was named the putative resistant allele. Among 217 entries, entry GSOR 310389 contained the most putative resistant alleles, eight out of ten. The number of putative resistant alleles presented in an entry was highly and significantly correlated with the decrease of ShB rating (r = -0.535) or the increase of ShB resistance. Majority of the resistant entries that contained a large number of the putative resistant alleles belonged to indica, which is consistent with a general observation that most ShB resistant accessions are of indica origin. These findings demonstrate the potential to improve breeding efficiency by using marker-assisted selection to pyramid putative resistant alleles from various loci in a cultivar for enhanced ShB resistance in rice.
22427922	During the last 90 years, the breeding of rice has delivered cultivars with improved agronomic and economic characteristics. Crossing of different lines and successive artificial selection of progeny based on their phenotypes have changed the chromosomal constitution of the ancestors of modern rice; however, the nature of these changes is unclear. The recent accumulation of data for genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in rice has allowed us to investigate the change in haplotype structure and composition. To assess the impact of these changes during modern breeding, we studied 177 Japanese rice accessions, which were categorized into three groups: landraces, improved cultivars developed from 1931 to 1974 (the early breeding phase), and improved cultivars developed from 1975 to 2005 (the late breeding phase). Phylogenetic tree and structure analysis indicated genetic differentiation between non-irrigated (upland) and irrigated (lowland) rice groups as well as genetic structuring within the irrigated rice group that corresponded to the existence of three subgroups. Pedigree analysis revealed that a limited number of landraces and cultivars was used for breeding at the beginning of the period of systematic breeding and that 11 landraces accounted for 70% of the ancestors of the modern improved cultivars. The values for linkage disequilibrium estimated from SNP alleles and the haplotype diversity determined from consecutive alleles in five-SNP windows indicated that haplotype blocks became less diverse over time as a result of the breeding process. A decrease in haplotype diversity, caused by a reduced number of polymorphisms in the haplotype blocks, was observed in several chromosomal regions. However, our results also indicate that new haplotype polymorphisms have been generated across the genome during the breeding process. These findings will facilitate our understanding of the association between particular haplotypes and desirable phenotypes in modern Japanese rice cultivars.
22428952	Staple foods, such as rice, can now be enriched in micronutrients through conventional breeding (i.e., biofortification) to enhance dietary intake of vulnerable populations. The objectives of this study were (1) to establish a rapid, high capacity Caco-2 cell model to determine the relative bioavailability of zinc (Zn) from samples of staple food breeding lines for potential use as a guideline for selection/breeding and (2) to determine the relative bioavailability of Zn from conventional rice varieties and one Zn-biofortified type. Polished or undermilled, parboiled rice samples were digested in vitro with pepsin and pH adjustment, and by pancreatic enzymes. Zn uptake from digested samples was measured in Caco-2 cells in culture. A previously validated rat pup model was also used to assess Zn absorption in vivo, using gastric intubation and (65)Zn labeling. Pups were killed after 6 h, and radioactivity in tissues and in small intestine perfusate and cecum-colon contents was used to measure Zn bioavailability. A biofortified rice variety contained substantially more Zn than conventional varieties, with no change in phytate content. Absorbed Zn (μg/g rice) was significantly higher from the new variety in both the in vitro Caco-2 cell model (2.1-fold) and the rat pup model (2.0-fold). Results from the two models were highly correlated, particularly for the polished samples. Biofortification of rice with Zn results in significantly increased Zn uptake in both models. Since results from the Caco-2 cell model correlated well with those from rat pups, this cell model is likely to predict results in human populations and can be used for screening purposes.
22428987	We investigated heat shock (HS)-triggered Ca(2+) signalling transduced by a Ca(2+) sensor, calmodulin (CaM), linked to early transcriptome changes of HS-responsive genes in rice. We observed a biphasic [Ca(2+) ](cyt) signature in root cells that was distinct from that in epicotyl and leaf cells, which showed a monophasic response after HS. Treatment with Ca(2+) and A23187 generated an intense and sustained increase in [Ca(2+) ](cyt) in response to HS. Conversely, treatment with Ca(2+) chelator, L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker and CaM antagonist, but not intracellular Ca(2+) release inhibitor, strongly inhibited the increased [Ca(2+) ](cyt) . HS combined with Ca(2+) and A23187 accelerated the expression of OsCaM1-1 and sHSPC/N genes, which suggests that the HS-induced apoplastic Ca(2+) influx is responsible for the [Ca(2+) ](cyt) response and downstream HS signalling. In addition, the biphasic response of OsCaM1-1 in the nucleus followed the Ca(2+) signature, which may provide the information necessary to direct HS-related gene expression. Overexpression of OsCaM1-1 induced the expression of Ca(2+) /HS-related AtCBK3, AtPP7, AtHSF and AtHSP at a non-inducing temperature and enhanced intrinsic thermotolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Therefore, HS-triggered rapid increases in [Ca(2+) ](cyt) , together with OsCaM1-1 expression and its nuclear localization, are important in mediating downstream HS-related gene expression for the acquisition of thermotolerance in rice.
22429711	When the gibberellin (GA) receptor GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF 1 (GID1) binds to GA, GID1 interacts with DELLA proteins, repressors of GA signaling. This interaction inhibits the suppressive function of DELLA protein and thereby activates the GA response. However, how DELLA proteins exert their suppressive function and how GID1s inhibit suppressive function of DELLA proteins is unclear. By yeast one-hybrid experiments and transient expression of the N-terminal region of rice DELLA protein (SLR1) in rice callus, we established that the N-terminal DELLA/TVHYNP motif of SLR1 possesses transactivation activity. When SLR1 proteins with various deletions were over-expressed in rice, the severity of dwarfism correlated with the transactivation activity observed in yeast, indicating that SLR1 suppresses plant growth through transactivation activity. This activity was suppressed by the GA-dependent GID1-SLR1 interaction, which may explain why GA responses are induced in the presence of GA. The C-terminal GRAS domain of SLR1 also exhibits a suppressive function on plant growth, possibly by directly or indirectly interacting with the promoter region of target genes. Our results indicate that the N-terminal region of SLR1 has two roles in GA signaling: interaction with GID1 and transactivation activity.
22429805	WD40 proteins represent a large family in eukaryotes, which have been involved in a broad spectrum of crucial functions. Systematic characterization and co-expression analysis of OsWD40 genes enable us to understand the networks of the WD40 proteins and their biological processes and gene functions in rice. In this study, we identify and analyze 200 potential OsWD40 genes in rice, describing their gene structures, genome localizations, and evolutionary relationship of each member. Expression profiles covering the whole life cycle in rice has revealed that transcripts of OsWD40 were accumulated differentially during vegetative and reproductive development and preferentially up or down-regulated in different tissues. Under phytohormone treatments, 25 OsWD40 genes were differentially expressed with treatments of one or more of the phytohormone NAA, KT, or GA3 in rice seedlings. We also used a combined analysis of expression correlation and Gene Ontology annotation to infer the biological role of the OsWD40 genes in rice. The results suggested that OsWD40 genes may perform their diverse functions by complex network, thus were predictive for understanding their biological pathways. The analysis also revealed that OsWD40 genes might interact with each other to take part in metabolic pathways, suggesting a more complex feedback network. All of these analyses suggest that the functions of OsWD40 genes are diversified, which provide useful references for selecting candidate genes for further functional studies.
22430059	Bensulfuron-methyl (BSM) is a new kind of sulfonylurea herbicide widely used to control broad-leaf weeds in rice paddies. The aim of this work was to study BSM biodegradation in paddy soils with BSM-degrading bacteria Bacillus megaterium L1 and Brevibacterium sp. BH and its effect on the structures of soil bacterial community. More than 90 % of BSM could be degraded in paddy soils with 0.0355 mg kg⁻¹ BSM concentration. Addition of BSM-degrading bacterial strains Bacillus megaterium L1 into BSM contaminated paddy soil could have the half-life time of BSM compared to treatment without Bacillus megaterium L1 inoculation. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and principle component analysis indicated that the diversity of the soil microbial community structure changed along with the addition of BSM, which recovered at the end of the experiment (5 weeks). Addition of BSM-degrading bacteria Bacillus megaterium L1 enriched the diversity of soil microbial community structure in paddy soils. This study provides information on the biodegradation of BSM and BSM's influences on the soil bacteria microbial community structures.
22430152
22430382	Despite recent advances in the treatment of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) using therapeutic hypothermia, at least 30% of the cooled infants will die or have moderate/severe neurological disability. Umbilical cord blood cells (UCBCs), which are readily available at birth, have been shown to reduce sensorimotor and/or cognitive impairments in several models of brain damage, representing a promising option for the treatment of neurological diseases. In this review, we discuss recent preclinical studies that assessed the effects of UCBC transplantation in the Rice-Vannucci animal model of HIE. We also review the possible cell types and mechanisms involved in the therapeutic effect of UCBC transplantation, including neuroprotection, immunomodulation, and stimulation of neural plasticity and regeneration. In addition, we discuss how neuroimaging methods, such as bioluminescence imaging, nuclear-medicine imaging, or magnetic resonance imaging, could be used to evaluate the biodistribution of UCBCs in both preclinical and clinical studies.
22430505	Meromictic Lake Kivu is renowned for its enormous quantity of methane dissolved in the hypolimnion. The methane is primarily of biological origin, and its concentration has been increasing in the past half-century. Insight into the origin of methane production in Lake Kivu has become relevant with the recent commercial extraction of methane from the hypolimnion. This study provides the first culture-independent approach to identifying the archaeal communities present in Lake Kivu sediments at the sediment-water interface. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis suggests considerable heterogeneity in the archaeal community composition at varying sample locations. This diversity reflects changes in the geochemical conditions in the sediment and the overlying water, which are an effect of local groundwater inflows. A more in-depth look at the archaeal community composition by clone library analysis revealed diverse phylogenies of Euryarchaeota and Crenarachaeota. Many of the sequences in the clone libraries belonged to globally distributed archaeal clades such as the rice cluster V and Lake Dagow sediment environmental clusters. Several of the determined clades were previously thought to be rare among freshwater sediment Archaea (e.g., sequences related to the SAGMEG-1 clade). Surprisingly, there was no observed relation of clones to known hydrogentrophic methanogens and less than 2 % of clones were related to acetoclastic methanogens. The local variability, diversity, and novelty of the archaeal community structure in Lake Kivu should be considered when making assumptions on the biogeochemical functioning of its sediments.
22430843	The pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) gene family represents one of the largest gene families in higher plants. Accumulating data suggest that PPR proteins play a central and broad role in modulating the expression of organellar genes in plants. Here we report a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant named young seedling albino (ysa) derived from the rice thermo/photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterile line Pei'ai64S, which is a leading male-sterile line for commercial two-line hybrid rice production. The ysa mutant develops albino leaves before the three-leaf stage, but the mutant gradually turns green and recovers to normal green at the six-leaf stage. Further investigation showed that the change in leaf color in ysa mutant is associated with changes in chlorophyll content and chloroplast development. Map-based cloning revealed that YSA encodes a PPR protein with 16 tandem PPR motifs. YSA is highly expressed in young leaves and stems, and its expression level is regulated by light. We showed that the ysa mutation has no apparent negative effects on several important agronomic traits, such as fertility, stigma extrusion rate, selfed seed-setting rate, hybrid seed-setting rate, and yield heterosis under normal growth conditions. We further demonstrated that ysa can be used as an early marker for efficient identification and elimination of false hybrids in commercial hybrid rice production, resulting in yield increases by up to approximately 537 kg ha(-1).
22432334	Recently reported summertime methane (CH4) emissions (6.7 +/- 13.3 mg CH4/(m2 x hr)) from newly created marshes in the drawdown area of the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR), China have triggered broad concern in academic circles and among the public. The CH4 emissions from TGR water surfaces and drawdown areas were monitored from 3rd June to 16th October 2010 with floating and static chambers and gas chromatography. The average CH4 emission flux from permanently flooded areas in Zigui, Wushan and Yunyang Counties was (0.33 +/- 0.09) mg CH4/(m2 x hr). In half of these hottest months of the year, the wilderness, cropland and deforested drawdown sites were aerobic and located above water level, and the CH4 emissions were very small, ranging from a sink at 0.12 mg CH4/(m2 x hr) to a source at 0.08 mg CH4/(m2 x hr) except for one mud-covered site after flood. Mean CH4 emission in flooded drawdown sites was 0.34 mg CH4/(m2 x hr). The emissions from the rice paddy sites in the drawdown area were averaged at (4.86 +/- 2.31) mg CH4/(m2 x hr). Excepting the rice-paddy sites, these results show much lower emission levels than previously reported. Our results indicated considerable spatial and temporal variation in CH4 emissions from the TGR. Human activities and occasional events, such as flood, may also affect emission levels. Long-term CH4 measurements and modeling in a large region are necessary to accurately estimate greenhouse gas emissions from the TGR.
22432944	Serine proteinases including trypsins and chymotrypsins play various important roles in insects, including food digestion, immune defense, and zymogen activation. Studies on insect serine proteinases could reveal their feeding preference (polyphagous and monophagous) and facilitate identification of protease inhibitors, which can be engineered for pest management. In this paper, 11 transcripts encoding trypsin- and chymotrypsin-like proteins were cloned from the striped rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker). All the predicted proteins share high sequence similarity with known trypsin- and chymotrypsin-like proteins from either lepidopterans or dipterans, and most of the proteins have conserved motifs that are characteristics of serine proteinases. Among the 11 cloned genes, six were expressed predominantly and one exclusively in the midgut of the insect, three were expressed relatively evenly in examined tissues, and one was not expressed in either the gut or hemolymph based on RT-PCR results. The seven genes that were predominantly or exclusively expressed in the gut were also affected by feeding on different host plants. The genes that were expressed in the gut and were affected by host plants are likely to encode digestive proteinases. The identification of trypsin- and chymotrypsin-like genes in this insect species is the first step towards further comparative studies and for identification of insect-specific proteinase inhibitors, which might be engineered to protect rice plants against the striped rice stem borer, which is one of the destructive pests of rice.
22432968	Carbohydrate-mediated molecular recognition is involved in many biological aspects such as cellular adhesion, immune response, blood coagulation, inflammation, and infection. Considering the crucial importance of such biological events in which proteins are normally involved, synthetic saccharide-based systems have emerged as powerful tools for the understanding of protein-carbohydrate interactions. As a new approach to create saccharide-based systems, a set of representative monosaccharides (D-mannose, D-glucose, N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, and L-fucose) and disaccharides (lactose, maltose, and melibiose) were derivatized at their anomeric carbon with a vinyl sulfone group spanned by an ethylthio linker. This vinyl sulfone functionalization is demonstrated to be a general strategy for the covalent linkage of a saccharide in mild conditions via Michael-type additions with the amine and thiol groups from functionalized supports and those naturally present in biomolecules. The introduction of the ethylthio linker between the biorecognizable element (i.e., saccharide) and the reactive group (i.e., vinyl sulfone) was found to preserve the functionality of the former. The capability of the vinyl sulfone saccharides for the study of lectin-carbohydrate interactions was demonstrated by (i) immobilizing them on both amine-functionalized supports (glass slides and microwell plates) and polylysine-coated glass slides to create sugar arrays that selectively bind lectins (ii) coupling to model proteins to yield neoglycoproteins that are recognized by lectins and (iii) using vinyl sulfone saccharides as tags to allow the detection of the labeled biomolecule by HRP-lectins. The above results were further put tothe test with a real case: detection of carbohydrate binding proteins present in rice (Oryza sativa).
22433044	This article provides a controlled evaluation of the ability of dietary supplementation with a commercially available rice bran extract modified with shitake mushroom extract (MGN-3) to support the immune function by assessing the ability of immunocytes to proliferate and produce cytokines in response to a mitogenic challenge. Twenty-four male Lewis rats were fed a control diet (Maypo sweetened oatmeal) or Maypo containing the recommended daily dose of MGN-3 for 2 weeks. This treatment modestly enhanced mitogen enhanced proliferation of splenocytes and interferon-gamma (IFN-g) production, and significantly increased proliferation of splenocytes to the superantigen toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) as well as natural killer (NK) cell activity and production of interleukin-2 (IL-2) by stimulated lymphocytes. These data support the contention that ingestion of MGN-3 can support immune cell function. These data add to a growing body of data showing that ingestion of MGN-3 improves the ability of immune cells to proliferate the lyse tumor cells, suggesting that it may have utility as a dietary aid to support the immune system.
22433461	The phenomenon whereby ammonium enhances the tolerance of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L., cv. 'Shanyou 63' hybrid indica China) to water stress has been reported in previous studies. To study the intrinsic mechanism of biomass synthesis related to photosynthesis, hydroponic experiments supplying different nitrogen (N) forms were conducted; water stress was simulated by the addition of polyethylene glycol. Water stress decreased leaf water potential (Ψ(leaf)) under nitrate nutrition, while it had no negative effect under ammonium nutrition. The decreased Ψ(leaf) under nitrate nutrition resulted in chloroplast downsizing and subsequently decreased mesophyll conductance to CO(2) (g(m)). The decreased g(m) and stomatal conductance (g(s)) under nitrate nutrition with water stress restrained the CO(2) supply to the chloroplast and Rubisco. The relatively higher distribution of leaf N to Rubisco under ammonium nutrition might also be of benefit for photosynthesis under water stress. In conclusion, chloroplast downsizing induced a decline in g(m), a relatively higher decrease in g(s) under nitrate nutrition with water stress, restrained the CO(2) supply to Rubisco and finally decreased the photosynthetic rate.
22434153	Crop yield is severely affected by soil salinity, as salt levels that are harmful to plant growth occur in large terrestrial areas of the world. The present investigation describes the studies of enzymatic activities, in-gel assays, gene expression of some of the major antioxidative enzymes, tocopherol accumulation, lipid peroxidation, ascorbate and dehydroascorbate contents in a salt-sensitive rice genotype PB1, and a relatively salt-tolerant cultivar CSR10 in response to 200 mM NaCl. Salt solution was added to the roots of hydroponically grown 5-day-old etiolated rice seedlings, 12 h prior to transfer to cool white fluorescent + incandescent light (100 μmol photons m(-2) s(-1)). Total tocopherol and ascorbate contents declined in salt-stressed rice seedlings. Among antioxidative enzymes, an increase in the activities of superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1), catalase (EC 1.11.1.6), ascorbate peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.11), glutathione reductase (EC 1.6.4.2), and their gene expression was observed in both cultivars in response to salt stress. The salt-tolerant cultivar CSR10 resisted stress due to its early preparedness to combat oxidative stress via upregulation of gene expression and enzymatic activities of antioxidative enzymes and a higher redox status of the antioxidant ascorbate even in a non-stressed environment.
22434193	A rice tiller is a specialized grain-bearing branch that contributes greatly to grain yield. The MONOCULM 1 (MOC1) gene is the first identified key regulator controlling rice tiller number; however, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. Here we report a novel rice gene, Tillering and Dwarf 1 (TAD1), which encodes a co-activator of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC/C), a multi-subunit E3 ligase. Although the elucidation of co-activators and individual subunits of plant APC/C involved in regulating plant development have emerged recently, the understanding of whether and how this large cell-cycle machinery controls plant development is still very limited. Our study demonstrates that TAD1 interacts with MOC1, forms a complex with OsAPC10 and functions as a co-activator of APC/C to target MOC1 for degradation in a cell-cycle-dependent manner. Our findings uncovered a new mechanism underlying shoot branching and shed light on the understanding of how the cell-cycle machinery regulates plant architecture.
22435142	A gene OsZnI encoding Cys3/His1-type zinc finger protein was isolated from the water stress-induced cDNA library of rice (Oryza sativa) cv. N-22, an early maturing, deep-rooted, drought-tolerant genotype adapted to upland conditions. The in-silico analysis revealed an insert of 800 bp with an ORF of 663 nucleotides, encoding 221 amino acids. OsZnI had three distinct features--nuclear localization signal (NLS) present in Arg152-Arg168, Zn finger domain between 185-193 amino acids and 12 amino acids conserved domain in 71-82 amino acids homologous to LEA motif, and belonged to C-type family of Zn finger protein. OsZnI showed induced expression under water deficit stress.
22437556	Fortifying rice with multiple micronutrients could be a promising strategy for combat micronutrient deficiencies in developing countries. We determined the efficacy of extruded rice grains fortified with multiple micronutrients on the prevalence of anemia, micronutrient status, and physical and cognitive performance in 6- to 12-y-old, low-income school children in Bangalore, India. In a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial, 258 children were assigned to 1 of 3 intervention groups to receive rice-based lunch meals fortified with multiple micronutrients with either low-iron (6.25 mg) or high-iron (12.5 mg) concentrations or identical meals with unfortified rice. The meals were provided 6 d/wk for 6 mo. Anthropometric, biochemical, physical performance, and cognitive assessments were taken at baseline and endpoint. At baseline, study groups were comparable, with 61% of the children being anemic. However, only <10% were deficient in iron, vitamin A, and zinc. After 6 mo, plasma vitamin B-12 and homocysteine concentrations (both P < 0.001) as well as physical performance (P < 0.05) significantly improved in the intervention arms. No between-group differences were observed in hemoglobin concentration, anemia, and deficiencies of other micronutrients or cognitive function after 6 mo, but paired analyses revealed a small reduction in anemia prevalence in children in the low-iron group. The fortified rice was efficacious in improving vitamin B-12 status and physical performance in Indian school children.
22437663	Since the plant hormone gibberellin (GA) was discovered as a fungal toxin that caused abnormal elongation of rice shoots, the physiological function of GA has mainly been investigated in relation to the regulation of plant height. However, an indispensable role for GA in root growth has been elucidated by using severely GA-depleted plants, either with a gene mutation in GA biosynthesis or which have been treated by an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis. The molecular sequence of GA signalling has also been studied to understand GA functions in root growth. This review addresses research progress on the physiological functions of GA in root growth. Concentration-dependent stimulation of elongation growth by GA is important for the regulation of plant height and root length. Thus the endogenous level of GA and/or the GA sensitivity of shoots and roots plays a role in determining the shoot-to-root ratio of the plant body. Since the shoot-to-root ratio is an important parameter for agricultural production, control of GA production and GA sensitivity may provide a strategy for improving agricultural productivity. The sequence of GA signal transduction has recently been unveiled, and some component molecules are suggested as candidate in planta regulatory sites and as points for the artificial manipulation of GA-mediated growth control. This paper reviews: (1) the breakthrough dose-response experiments that show that root growth is regulated by GA in a lower concentration range than is required for shoot growth; (2) research on the regulation of GA biosynthesis pathways that are known predominantly to control shoot growth; and (3) recent research on GA signalling pathways, including GA receptors, which have been suggested to participate in GA-mediated growth regulation. This provides useful information to suggest a possible strategy for the selective control of shoot and root growth, and to explain how GA plays a role in rosette and liana plants with tall or short, and slender or thick axial organs.
22437844	The Rac/Rop GTPase OsRac1 plays an essential role in rice immunity. However, the regulatory genes acting downstream of OsRac1 are largely unknown. We focused on the RAI1 gene, which is up-regulated in suspension cells expressing a constitutively active form of OsRac1. RAI1 encodes a putative basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor. A microarray analysis of cells transformed with an inducible RAI1 construct showed increased expression of PAL1 and OsWRKY19 genes after induction, suggesting that these genes are regulated by RAI1. This was confirmed using RAI1 T-DNA activation-tagged and RNA interference lines. The PAL1 and OsWRKY19 genes were also up-regulated by sphingolipid and chitin elicitors, and the RAI1 activation-tagged plants had increased resistance to a rice blast fungus. These results indicated that RAI1 is involved in defense responses in rice. RAI1 interacted with OsMAPK3 and OsMAPK6 proteins in vivo and in vitro. Also, RAI1 was phosphorylated by OsMAPK3/6 and OsMKK4-dd in vitro. Overexpression of OsMAPK6 and/or OsMAPK3 together with OsMKK4-dd increased PAL1 and OsWRKY19 expression in rice protoplasts. Therefore, the regulation of PAL1 and OsWRKY19 expression by RAI1 could be controlled via an OsMKK4-OsMAPK3/6 cascade. Co-immunoprecipitation assays indicated that OsMAPK3 and OsRac1 occur in the same complex as OsMAPK6. Taken together, our results indicate that RAI1 could be regulated by OsRac1 through an OsMAPK3/6 cascade. In this study, we have identified RAI1 as the first transcription factor acting downstream of OsRac1. This work will help us to understand the immune system regulated by OsRac1 in rice and its orthologs in other plant species.
22437846	Suspension-cultured cell lines from plant species are useful for genetic engineering. However, maintenance of these lines is laborious, involves routine subculturing and hampers wider use of transgenic lines, especially when many lines are required for a high-throughput functional genomics application. Cryopreservation of these lines may reduce the need for subculturing. Here, we established a simple protocol for cryopreservation of cell lines from five commonly used plant species, Arabidopsis thaliana, Daucus carota, Lotus japonicus, Nicotiana tabacum and Oryza sativa. The LSP solution (2 M glycerol, 0.4 M sucrose and 86.9 mM proline) protected cells from damage during freezing and was only mildly toxic to cells kept at room temperature for at least 2 h. More than 100 samples were processed for freezing simultaneously. Initially, we determined the conditions for cryopreservation using a programmable freezer; we then developed a modified simple protocol that did not require a programmable freezer. In the simple protocol, a thick expanded polystyrene (EPS) container containing the vials with the cell-LSP solution mixtures was kept at -30 °C for 6 h to cool the cells slowly (pre-freezing); samples from the EPS containers were then plunged into liquid nitrogen before long-term storage. Transgenic Arabidopsis cells were subjected to cryopreservation, thawed and then re-grown in culture; transcriptome and metabolome analyses indicated that there was no significant difference in gene expression or metabolism between cryopreserved cells and control cells. The simplicity of the protocol will accelerate the pace of research in functional plant genomics.
22438302	Hybrid vigour may help overcome the negative effects of climate change in rice. A popular rice hybrid (IR75217H), a heat-tolerant check (N22), and a mega-variety (IR64) were tested for tolerance of seed-set and grain quality to high-temperature stress at anthesis at ambient and elevated [CO(2)]. Under an ambient air temperature of 29 °C (tissue temperature 28.3 °C), elevated [CO(2)] increased vegetative and reproductive growth, including seed yield in all three genotypes. Seed-set was reduced by high temperature in all three genotypes, with the hybrid and IR64 equally affected and twice as sensitive as the tolerant cultivar N22. No interaction occurred between temperature and [CO(2)] for seed-set. The hybrid had significantly more anthesed spikelets at all temperatures than IR64 and at 29 °C this resulted in a large yield advantage. At 35 °C (tissue temperature 32.9 °C) the hybrid had a higher seed yield than IR64 due to the higher spikelet number, but at 38 °C (tissue temperature 34-35 °C) there was no yield advantage. Grain gel consistency in the hybrid and IR64 was reduced by high temperatures only at elevated [CO(2)], while the percentage of broken grains increased from 10% at 29 °C to 35% at 38 °C in the hybrid. It is concluded that seed-set of hybrids is susceptible to short episodes of high temperature during anthesis, but that at intermediate tissue temperatures of 32.9 °C higher spikelet number (yield potential) of the hybrid can compensate to some extent. If the heat tolerance from N22 or other tolerant donors could be transferred into hybrids, yield could be maintained under the higher temperatures predicted with climate change.
22438864	High coverage of conventional and long-lasting insecticide treated nets (ITNs and LLINs) in parts of E Africa are associated with reductions in local malaria burdens. Shifts in malaria vector species ratio have coincided with the scale-up suggesting that some species are being controlled by ITNs/LLINs better than others. Between 2005-2006 six experimental hut trials of ITNs and LLINs were conducted in parallel at two field stations in northeastern Tanzania; the first station was in Lower Moshi Rice Irrigation Zone, an area where An. arabiensis predominates, and the second was in coastal Muheza, where An. gambiae and An. funestus predominate. Five pyrethroids and one carbamate insecticide were evaluated on nets in terms of insecticide-induced mortality, blood-feeding inhibition and exiting rates. In the experimental hut trials mortality of An. arabiensis was consistently lower than that of An. gambiae and An. funestus. The mortality rates in trials with pyrethroid-treated nets ranged from 25-52% for An. arabiensis, 63-88% for An. gambiae s.s. and 53-78% for An. funestus. All pyrethroid-treated nets provided considerable protection for the occupants, despite being deliberately holed, with blood-feeding inhibition (percentage reduction in biting rates) being consistent between species. Veranda exiting rates did not differ between species. Percentage mortality of mosquitoes tested in cone bioassays on netting was similar for An. gambiae and An. arabiensis. LLINs and ITNs treated with pyrethroids were more effective at killing An. gambiae and An. funestus than An. arabiensis. This could be a major contributing factor to the species shifts observed in East Africa following scale up of LLINs. With continued expansion of LLIN coverage in Africa An. arabiensis is likely to remain responsible for residual malaria transmission, and species shifts might be reported over larger areas. Supplementary control measures to LLINs may be necessary to control this vector species.
22439001	We have created a high-resolution linkage map of Miscanthus sinensis, using genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS), identifying all 19 linkage groups for the first time. The result is technically significant since Miscanthus has a very large and highly heterozygous genome, but has no or limited genomics information to date. The composite linkage map containing markers from both parental linkage maps is composed of 3,745 SNP markers spanning 2,396 cM on 19 linkage groups with a 0.64 cM average resolution. Comparative genomics analyses of the M. sinensis composite linkage map to the genomes of sorghum, maize, rice, and Brachypodium distachyon indicate that sorghum has the closest syntenic relationship to Miscanthus compared to other species. The comparative results revealed that each pair of the 19 M. sinensis linkages aligned to one sorghum chromosome, except for LG8, which mapped to two sorghum chromosomes (4 and 7), presumably due to a chromosome fusion event after genome duplication. The data also revealed several other chromosome rearrangements relative to sorghum, including two telomere-centromere inversions of the sorghum syntenic chromosome 7 in LG8 of M. sinensis and two paracentric inversions of sorghum syntenic chromosome 4 in LG7 and LG8 of M. sinensis. The results clearly demonstrate, for the first time, that the diploid M. sinensis is tetraploid origin consisting of two sub-genomes. This complete and high resolution composite linkage map will not only serve as a useful resource for novel QTL discoveries, but also enable informed deployment of the wealth of existing genomics resources of other species to the improvement of Miscanthus as a high biomass energy crop. In addition, it has utility as a reference for genome sequence assembly for the forthcoming whole genome sequencing of the Miscanthus genus.
22439629	Red yeast rice (i.e., rice fermented with Monascus spp.), as a food supplement, is claimed to be blood cholesterol-lowering. The red yeast rice constituent monacolin K, also known as lovastatin, is an inhibitor of the hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase. This article aims to develop a sensitive nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) method to determine the total statin content of red yeast rice products. The total statin content was determined by a 400 MHz 1H NMR spectroscopic method, based on the integration of the multiplet at δ 5.37-5.32 ppm of a hydrogen at the hexahydronaphthalene moiety in comparison to an external calibration with lovastatin. The activity of HMG-CoA reductase was measured by a commercial spectrophotometric assay kit. The NMR detection limit for total statins was 6 mg/L (equivalent to 0.3 mg/capsule, if two capsules are dissolved in 50 mL ethanol). The relative standard deviations were consistently lower than 11%. The total statin concentrations of five red yeast rice supplements were between 1.5 and 25.2 mg per specified daily dose. A dose-dependent inhibition of the HMG-CoA reductase enzyme activity by the red yeast rice products was demonstrated. A simple and direct NMR assay was developed to determine the total statin content in red yeast rice. The assay can be applied for the determination of statin content for the regulatory control of red yeast rice products.
22439910	Many eukaryotic genomes encode cis-natural antisense transcripts (cis-NATs). Sense and antisense transcripts may form double-stranded RNAs that are processed by the RNA interference machinery into small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). A few so-called nat-siRNAs have been reported in plants, mammals, Drosophila, and yeasts. However, many questions remain regarding the features and biogenesis of nat-siRNAs. Through deep sequencing, we identified more than 17,000 unique siRNAs corresponding to cis-NATs from biotic and abiotic stress-challenged Arabidopsis thaliana and 56,000 from abiotic stress-treated rice. These siRNAs were enriched in the overlapping regions of NATs and exhibited either site-specific or distributed patterns, often with strand bias. Out of 1,439 and 767 cis-NAT pairs identified in Arabidopsis and rice, respectively, 84 and 119 could generate at least 10 siRNAs per million reads from the overlapping regions. Among them, 16 cis-NAT pairs from Arabidopsis and 34 from rice gave rise to nat-siRNAs exclusively in the overlap regions. Genetic analysis showed that the overlapping double-stranded RNAs could be processed by Dicer-like 1 (DCL1) and/or DCL3. The DCL3-dependent nat-siRNAs were also dependent on RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2 (RDR2) and plant-specific RNA polymerase IV (PolIV), whereas only a fraction of DCL1-dependent nat-siRNAs was RDR- and PolIV-dependent. Furthermore, the levels of some nat-siRNAs were regulated by specific biotic or abiotic stress conditions in Arabidopsis and rice. Our results suggest that nat-siRNAs display distinct distribution patterns and are generated by DCL1 and/or DCL3. Our analysis further supported the existence of nat-siRNAs in plants and advanced our understanding of their characteristics.
22442227	Casein kinase I (CKI) is a serine/threonine protein kinase that performs various functions in the cell, such as DNA repair, cell-cycle regulation, cytokinesis, vesicular trafficking, morphogenesis and circadian-rhythm regulation. CKI proteins contain a highly conserved catalytic domain at the N-terminus and a highly diverse regulatory domain that is responsible for substrate specificity at the C-terminus. In this study, CKI from rice (riceCKI) was overexpressed in Escherichia coli with an engineered C-terminal His tag. RiceCKI was then purified to homogeneity and crystallized at 293 K. X-ray diffraction data were collected to a resolution of 2.0 Å from a crystal belonging to the monoclinic space group C2, with unit-cell parameters a = 108.83, b = 69.60, c = 55.85 Å, β = 109.47°. The asymmetric unit was estimated to contain one monomer.
22442415	Rice OsERF922, encoding an APETELA2/ethylene response factor (AP2/ERF) type transcription factor, is rapidly and strongly induced by abscisic acid (ABA) and salt treatments, as well as by both virulent and avirulent pathovars of Magnaporthe oryzae, the causal agent of rice blast disease. OsERF922 is localized to the nucleus, binds specifically to the GCC box sequence, and acts as a transcriptional activator in plant cells. Knockdown of OsERF922 by means of RNAi enhanced resistance against M. oryzae. The elevated disease resistance of the RNAi plants was associated with increased expression of PR, PAL, and the other genes encoding phytoalexin biosynthetic enzymes and without M. oryzae infection. In contrast, OsERF922-overexpressing plants showed reduced expression of these defence-related genes and enhanced susceptibility to M. oryzae. In addition, the OsERF922-overexpressing lines exhibited decreased tolerance to salt stress with an increased Na(+)/K(+) ratio in the shoots. The ABA levels were found increased in the overexpressing lines and decreased in the RNAi plants. Expression of the ABA biosynthesis-related genes, 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED) 3 and 4, was upregulated in the OsERF922-overexpressing plants, and NCED4 was downregulated in the RNAi lines. These results suggest that OsERF922 is integrated into the cross-talk between biotic and abiotic stress-signalling networks perhaps through modulation of the ABA levels.
22443050	To compare the nutritional components of genetically modified rice expressing human lactoferrin (hLf) with its parental rice, and to observe the sub-chronic toxicity of hLf rice. The nutritional components of hLf rice and its parental rice were determined by the National Standard Methods. Eighty weanling Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups based on their gender and body weight: group A (hLf rice high-dose group with 71.45% rice), group B (hLf rice medium-dose group with 35. 725% rice), group C (parental rice group with 71.01% rice) and group D (AIN-93G diet group), and the latter two groups were used as the control. Body weight, dietary intake, blood routine test, blood biochemical examination, organ coefficient, bone density and the pathology of organs were investigated at the end of a 90-day feeding experiment. Except for human lactoferrin and Fe, there was no difference of main nutritional components, minerals and vitamins between groups. The differences of some indicators of blood routine (WBC, HGB, RBC and MCH), blood biochemistry (AST and GLU), organ coefficient and bone density between group A and B (hLf rice) with group C (parental rice) or group D (AIN-93G) were significant, while no difference of other indicators. Although some differences were observed, all indicators were still in the normal reference range. Therefore, there was no sign of toxic and adverse effects for hLf rice on rats.
22443148	The weedy relative of cultivated rice, red rice, can invade and severely infest rice fields, as reported by rice farmers throughout the world. Because of its close genetic relationship to commercial rice, red rice has proven difficult to control. Clearfield (Cl) varieties, which are resistant to the inhibiting herbicides in the chemical group AHAS (acetohydroxyacid synthase), provide a highly efficient opportunity to control red rice infestations. In order to reduce the risk of herbicide resistance spreading from cultivated rice to red rice, stewardship guidelines are regularly released. In Italy, the cultivation of Cl cultivars started in 2006. In 2010, surveillance of the possible escape of herbicide resistance was carried out; 168 red rice plants were sampled in 16 fields from six locations containing Cl and traditional cultivars. A first subsample of 119 plants was analysed after herbicide treatment and the resistance was found in 62 plants. Of these 119 plants, 78 plants were randomly selected and analysed at the level of the AHAS gene to search for the Cl mutation determining the resistant genotype: the Cl mutation was present in all the resistant plants. Nuclear and chloroplast microsatellite markers revealed a high correlation between genetic similarity and herbicide resistance. The results clearly show that Cl herbicide-resistant red rice plants are present in the field, having genetic relationships with the Cl variety. Finding plants homozygous for the mutation suggests that the crossing event occurred relatively recently and that these plants are in the F2 or later generations. These observations raise the possibility that Cl red rice is already within the cultivated rice seed supply.
22443269	Higher plants have evolved multiple RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RDRs), which work with Dicer-like (DCL) proteins to produce different classes of small RNAs with specialized molecular functions. Here we report that OsRDR6, the rice (Oryza sativa L.) homolog of Arabidopsis RDR6, acts in the biogenesis of various types and sizes of small RNAs. We isolated a rice osrdr6-1 mutant, which was temperature sensitive and showed spikelet defects. This mutant displays reduced accumulation of tasiR-ARFs, the conserved trans-acting siRNAs (tasiRNAs) derived from the TAS3 locus, and ectopic expression of tasiR-ARF target genes, the Auxin Response Factors (including ARF2 and ARF3/ETTIN). The loss of tasiR-mediated repression of ARFs in osrdr6-1 can explain its morphological defects, as expression of two non-targeted ARF3 gene constructs (ARF3muts) in a wild-type background mimics the osrdr6 and osdcl4-1 mutant phenotypes. Small RNA high-throughput sequencing also reveals that besides tasiRNAs, 21-nucleotide (nt) phased small RNAs are also largely dependent on OsRDR6. Unexpectedly, we found that osrdr6-1 has a strong impact on the accumulation of 24-nt phased small RNAs, but not on unphased ones. Our work uncovers the key roles of OsRDR6 in small RNA biogenesis and directly illustrates the crucial functions of tasiR-ARFs in rice development.
22443345	The Poaceae family, also known as the grasses, includes agronomically important cereal crops such as rice, maize, sorghum, and wheat. Previous comparative studies have shown that much of the gene content is shared among the grasses; however, functional conservation of orthologous genes has yet to be explored. To gain an understanding of the genome-wide patterns of evolution of gene expression across reproductive tissues, we employed a sequence-based approach to compare analogous transcriptomes in species representing three Poaceae subgroups including the Pooideae (Brachypodium distachyon), the Panicoideae (sorghum), and the Ehrhartoideae (rice). Our transcriptome analyses reveal that only a fraction of orthologous genes exhibit conserved expression patterns. A high proportion of conserved orthologs include genes that are upregulated in physiologically similar tissues such as leaves, anther, pistil, and embryo, while orthologs that are highly expressed in seeds show the most diverged expression patterns. More generally, we show that evolution of gene expression profiles and coding sequences in the grasses may be linked. Genes that are highly and broadly expressed tend to be conserved at the coding sequence level while genes with narrow expression patterns show accelerated rates of sequence evolution. We further show that orthologs in syntenic genomic blocks are more likely to share correlated expression patterns compared with non-syntenic orthologs. These findings are important for agricultural improvement because sequence information is transferred from model species, such as Brachypodium, rice, and sorghum to crop plants without sequenced genomes.
22443363	With the aim of identifying novel regulators of host and nonhost resistance to fungi in rice, we carried out a systematic mutant screen of mutagenized lines. Two mutant wrky22 knockout lines revealed clear-cut enhanced susceptibility to both virulent and avirulent Magnaporthe oryzae strains and altered cellular responses to nonhost Magnaporthe grisea and Blumeria graminis fungi. In addition, the analysis of the pathogen responses of 24 overexpressor OsWRKY22 lines revealed enhanced resistance phenotypes on infection with virulent M. oryzae strain, confirming that OsWRKY22 is involved in rice resistance to blast. Bioinformatic analyses determined that the OsWRKY22 gene belongs to a well-defined cluster of monocot-specific WRKYs. The co-regulatory analysis revealed no significant co-regulation of OsWRKY22 with a representative panel of OsWRKYs, supporting its unique role in a series of transcriptional responses. In contrast, inquiring a subset of biotic stress-related Affymetrix data, a large number of resistance and defence-related genes were found to be putatively co-expressed with OsWRKY22. Taken together, all gathered experimental evidence places the monocot-specific OsWRKY22 gene at the convergence point of signal transduction circuits in response to both host and nonhost fungi encountering rice plants.
22443597	Four male pigs (Duroc × Landrace × Yorkshire; average initial (mean ± SEM) BW = 22.5 ± 1.1 kg), fitted with permanent catheters in the portal vein, ileal vein and carotid artery, were used in a 4 × 4 Latin square experimental design to measure the effect of dietary starch sources on the net portal appearance of glucose and amino acids. Dietary starch sources were resistant starch (RS), maize, sticky rice and brown rice. Diets were provided at 0730, 1530 and 2330 h during a 6-day adjustment period and 1-day collection period. On day 7 of each period, blood samples were collected from the portal vein and carotid artery at 0730 h (prior to feeding) and hourly up to 8 h after meal. Blood samples were used to determine glucose, amino acid, packed cell volume and partial pressure of oxygen (pO2). When calculated per 100 g feed intake, cumulative portal glucose appearance was lower (P < 0.05) for resistant starch than for maize, sticky rice or brown rice up to 8 h after the meal. Cumulative portal glucose appearance was higher (P < 0.05) for sticky rice and brown rice than for other diets until 4 h after the meal, but maize had higher cumulative glucose appearance after 4 h. Net cumulative portal concentrations of most amino acids for resistant starch were also reduced (P < 0.05) than for the other starch sources. Cumulative portal appearance of amino acid represented 48.39%, 63.76%, 61.80% and 59.18% of dietary intake for resistant starch, maize, sticky rice and brown rice, respectively. Collectively, our results indicate that dietary starch sources substantially affect the appearance of amino acids and glucose in the portal circulation.
22444286	The objectives of this study were to determine true phosphorus (P) digestibility, degradability of phytate-P complex and the endogenous P outputs associated with brown rice feeding in weanling pigs by using the simple linear regression analysis technique. Six barrows with an average initial body weight of 12.5 kg were fitted with a T-cannula and fed six diets according to a 6 × 6 Latin-square design. Six maize starch-based diets, containing six levels of P at 0.80, 1.36, 1.93, 2.49, 3.04, and 3.61 g/kg per kg dry-matter (DM) intake (DMI), were formulated with brown rice. Each experimental period lasted 10 days. After a 7-day adaptation, all faecal samples were collected on days 8 and 9. Ileal digesta samples were collected for a total of 24 h on day 10. The apparent ileal and faecal P digestibility values of brown rice were affected (P < 0.01) by the P contents in the assay diets. The apparent ileal and faecal P digestibility values increased from - 48.0 to 36.7% and from - 35.6 to 40.0%, respectively, as P content increased from 0.80 to 3.61 g/kg DMI. Linear relationships (P < 0.05), expressed as g/kg DMI, between the apparent ileal and faecal digestible P and dietary levels of P, suggested that true P digestibility and the endogenous P outputs associated with brown rice feeding could be determined by using the simple regression analysis technique. There were no differences (P>0.05) in true P digestibility values (57.7 ± 5.4 v. 58.2 ± 5.9%), phytate P degradability (76.4 ± 6.7 v. 79.0 ± 4.4%) and the endogenous P outputs (0.812 ± 0..096 v. 0.725 ± 0.083 g/kg DMI) between the ileal and the faecal levels. The endogenous faecal P output represented 14 and 25% of the National Research Council (1998) recommended daily total and available P requirements in the weanling pig, respectively. About 58% of the total P in brown rice could be digested and absorbed by the weanling pig. Our results suggest that the large intestine of the weanling pigs does not play a significant role in the digestion of P in brown rice. Diet formulation on the basis of total or apparent P digestibility with brown rice may lead to P overfeeding and excessive P excretion in pigs.
22444296	The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of fermented oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreats) by-production (FOMP) supplementation on the growth performance, blood parameters, carcass traits and meat quality in finishing Berkshire pigs. FOMP was made by mixing oyster mushroom by-production with rice bran and barley bran and this mixture was fermented for 60 days. The experimental diets were 0, 3, 5 and 7% of FOMP added to C, T1, T2 and T3 in the basis diet for 7 weeks. Average daily gain (kg/day) was higher in C and T1 than in T2 and T3 (P < 0.05). Average daily feed intake (kg/day) and feed conversion increased by the addition of FOMP (P < 0.05). Total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were higher in T3 than other treatments (P < 0.05). Carcass weight (kg) was higher in C and T1 than in T2 and T3 (P < 0.05). Dressing (%) was higher in C than in T3 (P < 0.05). Crude protein was lower in T3 than in other treatments (P < 0.05). Crude fat was higher in T2 and T3 than in C (P < 0.05). pH24 was higher in C than in other treatments (P < 0.05). Cooking loss (%) was higher in T1 than T2 (P < 0.05). Water-holding capacity (%) was higher in C than in T1 (P < 0.05). In meat colour, CIE a* was lower by the addition of FOMP (P < 0.05). CIE b* was higher in C than in other treatments (P < 0.05). In backfat colour, CIE L* was lower in T3 than other treatments (P < 0.05). CIE b* was lower by addition of FOMP (P < 0.05). Palmitoleic and oleic acid were higher in T3 than in other treatments (P < 0.05). Linoleic and arachidonic acids were higher in T2 than in other treatments (P < 0.05). The results indicate that 3% of FOMP affected the growth performance, carcass traits, meat quality and fatty acid in contrast to addition of 5% of FOMP for Berkshire pigs during the finishing period.
22444766	Two metabolism trials (experiments 1 and 2) were conducted to examine the effect of the organic S compound, sodium 3-mercapto-1-propane sulfonic acid (MPS) on feed intake, fiber digestibility, rumen fermentation and abundance of cellulolytic rumen microorganisms in cattle fed low S (<0.11%) roughages. Urea was provided in all treatments to compensate for the N deficiency (<0.6%) in the roughages. In experiment 1, steers (333 ± 9.5 kg liveweight) were fed Angleton grass (Dicanthium aristatum) supplemented with S in equivalent amounts as either MPS (6.0 g/day) or sodium sulfate (9.56 g/day). Supplementation of Angelton grass with either sulfate or MPS resulted in an apparent increase in flow of rumen microbial protein from the rumen. Sulfur supplementation did not significantly change whole tract dry matter digestibility or intake, even though sulfate and MPS supplementation was associated with an increase in the relative abundance of the fibrolytic bacteria Fibrobacter succinogenes and anaerobic rumen fungi. Ruminal sulfide levels were significantly higher in the sulfate treatment, which indicated that the bioavailability of the two S atoms in the MPS molecule may be low in the rumen. Based on this observation, experiment 2 was conducted in which twice the amount of S was provided in the form of MPS (8.0 g/day) compared with sodium sulfate (6.6 g/day) to heifers (275 ± 9 kg liveweight) fed rice straw. Supplementation with MPS compared with sulfate in experiment 2 resulted in an increase in concentration of total volatile fatty acids, and ammonia utilization without a change in feed intake or whole tract fiber digestibility even though S and N were above requirement for growing cattle in both these treatment groups. In conclusion, supplementation of an S deficient low-quality roughage diet with either MPS or sodium sulfate, in conjunction with urea N, improved rumen fermentation, which was reflected in an increase in urinary purine excretion. However, MPS appeared to have a greater effect on stimulating short-chain fatty acid production and ammonia utilization when provided at higher concentrations than sulfate. Thus, the metabolism of MPS in the rumen needs to be investigated further in comparison with inorganic forms of S as it may prove to be more effective in stimulating fermentation of roughage diets.
22445041	In the rumen, plant particles are colonised and degraded by the rumen micro-organisms. Although numerous important findings about fibre-associated bacterial community were obtained using traditional or molecular techniques, little information is available on the dynamics of bacteria associated with feed particles during incubation in the rumen. In the present study, ryegrass leaf, ryegrass stem and rice straw, representing different carbohydrate compositions, were used as substrates and placed in the rumen of goats by using nylon bags, and PCR/DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) with subsequent sequence analysis were used to monitor the dynamics of and identify bacteria associated with the substrates during 24 h of incubation. DGGE results showed that substrate samples collected from 10 min to 6 h had similar DGGE patterns, with up to 24 predominant bands to each sample, including 14 common bands to all samples, suggesting a rapid and stable colonisation by a highly diverse bacterial community. Substrate samples collected at 12 and 24 h showed similar DGGE patterns but had great difference in DGGE patterns from those collected at 10 min to 6 h, suggesting an apparent shift in bacterial community. Sequence analysis indicated that most substrate-associated bacteria were closely related to fibrolytic bacteria. In conclusion, a highly diverse and similar rumen bacterial community could immediately colonise to different substrates and remained stable during the initial 6 h of incubation, but experienced a marked change after 12 h of incubation. Italian ryegrass leaf, Italian ryegrass stem and rice straw were colonised with a similar bacterial community.
22445266	Cadmium is the most common toxic metal threatening safe rice supply. Rice straw has the potential to remove Cd from large-scale effluent contaminated by heavy metals since it exhibited a short biosorption equilibrium time of 5 min, high biosorption capacity (13.9 mg g(-1)) and high removal efficiency at a pH range of 2.0-6.0. The main Cd biosorption mechanism was Cd(2+) ion exchange with K(+), Na(+), Mg(2+) and Ca(2+), together with chelation with functional groups such as C=C, CO, OH and carboxylic acids. When 0.5% (w/v) rice straw was exposed to 50 mg mL(-1) CdSO(4) solution with shaking at 150 r min(-1) for 3h, about 80% of the aquatic Cd was absorbed and the Cd content in rice straw reached 8-10 mg g(-1), suggesting that the metal-enriched rice straw could become high quality bio-ore by virtue of the industrial mining grade of its metal content and easy metal recovery.
22445751	Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the staple foods of the world. Iron (Fe) deficiency is a major abiotic stress factor that contributes world-wide to losses in crop yield and decline in nutritional quality. As cofactor for many enzymes and proteins, iron is an essential element. It plays a pivotal role in chlorophyll (Chl) biosynthesis, and iron deficiency may result in decreased Chl production and, thus, reduced photosynthetic capacity. Photosystem I (PSI) is a prime target of iron deficiency because of its high iron content (12 Fe per PS). To understand the protein level changes in the light-harvesting complex (LHC) of PSI (LHCI) under iron deficiency, rice seedlings were grown in Hoagland's nutrient medium with and without Fe. Chlorophyll content and photosynthetic efficiency decreased under iron deficiency. Protein gel blots probed with antibodies against the PSI core and Lhca 1-4 proteins revealed that the core subunits PsaA and PsaB remained stable under iron deficiency, whereas PsaC and PsaD decreased by about 50%, and PsaE was completely degraded. Among the LHCI subunits, Lhca1 and Lhca2 decreased by 40 and 50%, respectively, whereas Lhca3 and Lhca4 were completely degraded. We propose that the dissociation of LHCI subunits may be due to increased levels of reactive oxygen species, which is suggested by the increased activity of superoxide dismutase.
22445891	The culm length of two semidwarf rice mutants (PKOS1, HyKOS1) obtained from low-energy N-ion beam bombardments of dehusked Thai jasmine rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. KDML 105) seeds showed 25.7% and 21.5% height reductions and one spindly rice mutant (TKOS4) showed 21.4% increase in comparison with that of the KDML 105 control. A cDNA-RAPD analysis identified differential gene expression in internode tissues of the rice mutants. Two genes identified from the cDNA-RAPD were OsSPY and 14-3-3, possibly associated with stem height variations of the semidwarf and spindly mutants, respectively. The OsSPY gene encoded the SPY protein which is considered to be a negative regulator of gibberellin (GA). On the other hand, the 14-3-3 encoded a signaling protein which can bind and prevent the RSG (repression of shoot growth) protein function as a transcriptional repressor of the kaurene oxidase (KO) gene in the GA biosynthetic pathway. Expression analysis of OsSPY, 14-3-3, RSG, KO, and SLR1 was confirmed in rice internode tissues during the reproductive stage of the plants by semi-quantitative RT-PCR technique. The expression analysis showed a clear increase of the levels of OsSPY transcripts in PKOS1 and HyKOS1 tissue samples compared to that of the KDML 105 and TKOS4 samples at the age of 50-60 days which were at the ages of internode elongation. The 14-3-3 expression had the highest increase in the TKOS4 samples compared to those in KDML 105, PKOS1 and HyKOS1 samples. The expression analysis of RSG and KO showed an increase in TKOS4 samples compared to that of the KDML 105 and that of the two semidwarf mutants. These results indicate that changes of OsSPY and 14-3-3 expression could affect internode elongation and cause the phenotypic changes of semidwarf and spindly rice mutants, respectively.
22445918	Understanding the complex biotic and abiotic interactions invoked by the rice root system in oxygen-depleted soil is an important step in screening genotypes for low toxic metal or metalloid accumulation. A hydroponic and a rhizobox experiment have been conducted to explore the effects of varying root oxygen release on chemical changes, As fractionation in rhizosphere soil and Fe plaque formation, As uptake and tolerance by different rice genotypes. The results showed that rice genotypes with higher rates of radial oxygen loss (ROL) and at the bolting stage, tended to have greater effects on rhizosphere Eh, pH, Fe(3+)/Fe(2+) quotients, As fractionation and mobility and also on Fe plaque formation compared to those with lower ROL and at the tillering stage. Genotypes with higher ROL have a strong ability to reduce As accumulation in shoots and increase As tolerance by reducing As mobilization in the rhizosphere and by limiting As translocation.
22446050	As a highly available waste product, rice hulls could be a starting block in replacing liquid fossil fuels. However, their silica covering can make further use difficult. This preliminary study investigates effects of dissolving rice hulls in the ionic liquids 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium acetate (EMIM Ac), 1-hexyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride, (HMIM Cl), and 1-allyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride (AMIM Cl), and what lignocellulosic components can be precipitated from the used ionic liquid with water and ethanol. EMIM Ac dissolution at 110 °C for 8 h was found to completely remove lignin from rice hulls, while ethanol was capable of precipitating lignin out of the used EMIM Ac. With 8h dissolution at 110 °C using HMIM Cl, approximately 20% of the cellulose in the rice hull sample can be precipitated out using water as co-solvent, while more than 60% of the hemicellulose can be precipitated with ethanol.
22446309	The diversity of cultivable methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) in the rice paddy field ecosystem was investigated by combined culture-dependent and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) techniques. Seven microsites of a Japanese rice paddy field were the focus of the study: floodwater, surface soil, bulk soil, rhizosphere soil, root, basal stem of rice plant, and rice stumps of previous harvest. Based on pmoA gene analysis and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), four type I, and nine type II MOB isolates were obtained from the highest dilution series of enrichment cultures. The type I MOB isolates included a novel species in the genus Methylomonas from floodwater and this is the first type I MOB strain isolated from floodwater of a rice paddy field. In the type I MOB, two isolates from stumps were closely related to Methylomonas spp.; one isolate obtained from rhizosphere soil was most related to Methyloccocus-Methylocaldum-Methylogaea clade. Almost all the type II MOB isolates were related to Methylocystis methanotrophs. FISH confirmed the presence of both types I and II MOB in all the microsites and in the related enrichment cultures. The study reported, for the first time, the diversity of cultivable methanotrophs including a novel species of type I MOB in rice paddy field compartments. Refining growth media and culture conditions, in combination with molecular approaches, will allow us to broaden our knowledge on the MOB community in the rice paddy field ecosystem and consequently to implement strategies for mitigating CH₄ emission from this ecosystem.
22446319	The fungus Magnaporthe oryzae is a serious pathogen of rice and other grasses. Telomeric restriction fragments in Magnaporthe isolates that infect perennial ryegrass (prg) are hotspots for genomic rearrangement and undergo frequent, spontaneous alterations during fungal culture. The telomeres of rice-infecting isolates are very stable by comparison. Sequencing of chromosome ends from a number of prg-infecting isolates revealed two related non-LTR retrotransposons (M. oryzae Telomeric Retrotransposons or MoTeRs) inserted in the telomere repeats. This contrasts with rice pathogen telomeres that are uninterrupted by other sequences. Genetic evidence indicates that the MoTeR elements are responsible for the observed instability. MoTeRs represent a new family of telomere-targeted transposons whose members are found exclusively in fungi.
22446601	Adiponectin is a polypeptide specifically secreted from human adipocytes, and its deficiency is closely linked to increased obesity and type II diabetes. There is an urgent demand for large-scale production of human adiponectin for pharmaceutical applications. Here, we report that we have successfully obtained a high-level of expression of modified genes encoding human adiponectin in transgenic rice. The 735 bp cDNA of the native human sequence was adopted to rice codon usage, fused to the translation initiation sequence in the N terminus and to the KDEL signal sequence in the C terminus. An amplification promoting sequence acting as an enhancer of transcription was also introduced to enhance gene expression. The presence of the transgene and mRNA transcripts was confirmed by PCR, Southern blot and RT-PCR. Western blot analysis revealed that a protein of approximately 30 kDa was produced in rice leaves. ELISA analysis was used to determine the amount of recombinant adiponectin in transformants with the modified gene in up to 0.32% of total soluble leaf protein. Our results establish the feasibility of high-level expression of recombinant human adiponectin in transgenic rice.
22446930	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for resistance to rice blast offer a potential source of durable disease resistance in rice. However, few QTLs have been validated in progeny testing, on account of their small phenotypic effects. To understand the genetic basis for QTL-mediated resistance to blast, we dissected a resistance QTL, qBR4-2, using advanced backcross progeny derived from a chromosome segment substitution line in which a 30- to 34-Mb region of chromosome 4 from the resistant cultivar Owarihatamochi was substituted into the genetic background of the highly susceptible Aichiasahi. The analysis resolved qBR4-2 into three loci, designated qBR4-2a, qBR4-2b, and qBR4-2c. The sequences of qBR4-2a and qBR4-2b, which lie 181 kb apart from each other and measure, 113 and 32 kb, respectively, appear to encode proteins with a putative nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). Sequence analysis of the donor allele of qBR4-2a, the region with the largest effect among the three, revealed sequence variations in the NBS-LRR region. The effect of qBR4-2c was smallest among the three, but its combination with the donor alleles of qBR4-2a and qBR4-2b significantly enhanced blast resistance. qBR4-2 comprises three tightly linked QTLs that control blast resistance in a complex manner, and thus gene pyramiding or haplotype selection is the recommended strategy for improving QTL-mediated resistance to blast disease through the use of this chromosomal region.
22447103	Rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV) is the causal agent of rice black-streaked dwarf and maize rough dwarf diseases in China. The only open reading frame encoding the viral outer capsid protein on S10 RNA of 21 RBSDV isolates was sequenced for phylogenetic and recombination analysis. Four natural recombinants were detected, and the recombinant breakpoints were identified. In addition, the distribution of synonymous and non-synonymous nucleotide changes revealed that the virus had been evolving under purifying selection.
22447493	The Asian rice gall midge [Orseolia oryzae (Wood-Mason)] is an important rice pest causing an annual average yield loss of about US $80 million in India. Rice varieties possess several discrete resistance (R) genes conferring resistance against the pest in two distinct ways, i.e., with (HR+ type) or without (HR- type) the expression of hypersensitive reaction (HR). The aim of the present work is to understand the molecular basis of compatible and incompatible (HR- type) rice gall midge interactions between the rice variety Kavya and the two gall midge biotypes: the virulent GMB4M and the avirulent GMB1 using transcriptional microarray gene expression analysis. A large number of differentially expressed genes (602genes in incompatible interaction and 1,330 genes in compatible interaction with at least twofold changes, p value <0.05) was obtained from the microarray analysis that could be grouped into six clusters based on their induction during both or either of the interactions. MapMan software was used for functional characterization of these genes into 13 categories (BINs). Real-time polymerase chain reaction validation of 26 genes selected through the analysis revealed four genes viz. NADPH oxidase, AtrbohF, cinnamoyl-CoA reductase, and von Willebrand factor type A domain containing protein coding genes to be significantly upregulated during the incompatible interaction. But most of the signature genes related to HR+ type resistance like salicylic acid pathway-related genes and disease resistance protein coding genes were downregulated. On the other hand, during the compatible interaction, genes related to primary metabolism and nutrient transport were upregulated and genes for defense and signaling were downregulated. We propose a hypothesis that HR- type of resistance in the rice variety Kavya against gall midge could be due to the constitutive expression of an R gene and a case of extreme resistance which is devoid of cell death. Compatible interaction, however, modulated a large number of differentially expressed transcripts to reprogram cell organization, cell remodeling, and relocation of nutrients through transport to support insect growth.
22448240	The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae elaborates a specialized infection structure called an appressorium to breach the rice leaf surface and gain access to plant tissue. Appressorium development is controlled by cell cycle progression, and a single round of nuclear division occurs prior to appressorium formation. Mitosis is always followed by programmed cell death of the spore from which the appressorium develops. Nuclear degeneration in the spore is known to be essential for plant infection, but the precise mechanism by which it occurs is not known. In yeast, nuclear breakdown requires a specific form of autophagy, known as piecemeal microautophagy of the nucleus (PMN), and we therefore investigated whether this process occurs in the rice blast fungus. Here, we report that M. oryzae possesses two conserved components of a putative PMN pathway, MoVac8 and MoTsc13, but that both are dispensable for nuclear breakdown during plant infection. MoVAC8 encodes a vacuolar membrane protein and MoTSC13 a peri-nuclear and peripheral ER protein. We show that MoVAC8 is necessary for caffeine resistance, but dispensable for pathogenicity of M. oryzae, while MoTSC13 is involved in cell wall stress responses and is an important virulence determinant. By functional analysis of ΔMoatg1 and ΔMoatg4 mutants, we demonstrate that infection-associated nuclear degeneration in M. oryzae instead occurs by non-selective macroautophagy, which is necessary for rice blast disease.
22448275	Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) has been reported to be important in normal plant growth and stress responses. In this study, it was verified that PI3K played a vital role in rice seed germination through regulating NADPH oxidase activity. Suppression of PI3K activity by inhibitors wortmannin or LY294002 could abate the reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, which resulted in disturbance to the seed germination. And then, the signal cascades that PI3K promoted the ROS liberation was also evaluated. Diphenylene iodonium (DPI), an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, suppressed most of ROS generation in rice seed germination, which suggested that NADPH oxidase was the main source of ROS in this process. Pharmacological experiment and RT-PCR demonstrated that PI3K promoted the expression of Os rboh9. Moreover, functional analysis by native PAGE and the measurement of the 2, 3-bis-(2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazo-lium-5- carboxanilide (XTT) formazan concentration both showed that PI3K promoted the activity of NADPH oxidase. Furthermore, the western blot analysis of OsRac-1 demonstrated that the translocation of Rac-1 from cytoplasm to plasma membrane, which was known as a key factor in the assembly of NADPH oxidase, was suppressed by treatment with PI3K inhibitors, resulting in the decreased activity of NADPH oxidase. Taken together, these data favored the novel conclusion that PI3K regulated NADPH oxidase activity through modulating the recruitment of Rac-1 to plasma membrane and accelerated the process of rice seed germination.
22448681	Genes that promote DNA methylation and demethylation in plants have been characterized mainly in Arabidopsis. Arabidopsis DNA demethylation is mediated by bi-functional DNA enzymes with glycosylase activity that removes 5-methylcytosine and lyase activity that nicks double-stranded DNA at an abasic site. Homologous recombination-promoted knock-in targeting of the ROS1a gene, the longest of six putative DNA demethylase genes in the rice genome, by fusing its endogenous promoter to the GUS reporter gene, led to reproducibly disrupted ROS1a in primary (T(0)) transgenic plants in the heterozygous condition. These T(0) plants exhibited no overt morphological phenotypes during the vegetative phase, and GUS staining showed ROS1a expression in pollen, unfertilized ovules and meristematic cells. Interestingly, neither the maternal nor paternal knock-in null allele, ros1a-GUS1, was virtually detected in the progeny; such an intransmittable null mutation is difficult to isolate by conventional mutagenesis techniques that are usually used to identify and isolate mutants in the progeny population. Even in the presence of the wild-type paternal ROS1a allele, the maternal ros1a-GUS1 allele caused failure of early-stage endosperm development, resulting in incomplete embryo development, with embryogenesis producing irregular but viable embryos that failed to complete seed dormancy, implying non-equivalent maternal and paternal contribution of ROS1a in endosperm development. The paternal ros1a-GUS1 allele was not transmitted to progeny, presumably because of a male gametophytic defect(s) prior to fertilization. Thus, ROS1a is indispensable in both male and female gametophytes, and DNA demethylation must plays important roles in both gametophytes.
22449748	Hong Qu glutinous rice wine is one of the most popular traditional rice wines in China. Traditionally, this wine is brewed from glutinous rice with the addition of wine fermentation starters (Hong Qu (also called red yeast rice) and White Qu). The objective of this study was to investigate the variability of filamentous fungi associated with traditional fermentation starters through a traditional culture-dependent method and a molecular identification approach. In this study, forty-three filamentous fungi were separated by traditional culture-dependent means (macro- and microscopic characteristics) from 10 fermentation starters and classified into 16 different species based on morphological examination and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences analysis. It was observed that the genus Aspergillus had the highest number (14 isolates) of isolates followed by Rhizopus (11 isolates), Monascus (5 isolates) and Penicillium (4 isolates). The species R. oryzae, A. niger, A. flavus and M. purpureus were frequently found in wine starter samples, among which R. oryzae was the most frequent species. The enzyme-producing properties (glucoamylase, α-amylase and protease) of all fungal isolates from different starters were also evaluated. A. flavus, R. oryzae and M. purpureus were found to be better glucoamylase producers. A. flavus, R. oryzae and A.oryzae exhibited higher activity of α-amylase. A. flavus and A. oryzae had higher protease activity. However, some fungal isolates of the same species exhibited a significant variability in the production levels for all determined enzyme activity. This study is the first to identify filamentous fungi associated with the starter of Hong Qu glutinous rice wine using both traditional and molecular methods. The results enrich our knowledge of liquor-related micro-organisms, and can be used to promote the development of the traditional fermentation technology.
22450789	This study describes the characterization of a new angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptide from a Korean traditional rice wine. After purification of the ACE inhibitor peptides with ultrafiltration, Sephadex G-25 column chromatography, and successively C₁₈ and SCX solid-phase extraction, reverse-phase HPLC, and size exculsion chromatography, two types of the purified ACE inhibitors with IC₅₀ values of 0.34 mg/ml and 1.23 mg/ml were finally obtained. The two purified ACE inhibitors (F-1 and F-2) were found to have two kinds of novel oligopeptides, showing very little similarity to other ACE inhibitory peptide sequences. The amino acid sequences of the two purified oligopeptides were found to be Gln- Phe-Tyr-Ala-Val (F-1) and Ala-Gly-Pro-Val-Leu-Leu (F-2), and their molecular masses were estimated to be 468.7 Da (F-1) and 357.7 Da (F-2), respectively. They all showed a clear antihypertensive effect on spontaneously hypertensive rats at a dosage of 500 mg/kg.
22451352	The XA21 protein has broad spectrum resistance against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Although Xa21-mediated immunity is well characterized, little is known about the origin and evolutionary history of this gene in grasses. Therefore, we analyzed all Xa21 gene homologs in eight whole-genome sequenced rice lines, as well as in four gramineous genomes, rice, Brachypodium, sorghum and maize; using Arabidopsis Xa21 homologs as outgroups, 17, 7, 7 and 3 Xa21 homologs were detected in these four grasses, respectively. Synteny and phylogenetic analysis showed that frequent gene translocation, duplication and/or loss, have occurred at Xa21 homologous loci, suggesting that they have undergone or are undergoing rapid generation of copy number variations. Within the rice species, the high level of nucleotide diversity between Xa21-like orthologs showed a strong association with the presence/absence haplotypes, suggesting that the genetic structure of rice lines plays an important role in the variations between these Xa21-like orthologs. Strongly positive selection was detected in the core region of the leucine-rich repeat domains of the Xa21 subclade among the rice lines, indicating that the rapid gene diversification of Xa21 homologs may be a strategy for a given species to adapt to the changing spectrum of species-specific pathogens.
22451407	There are difficulties in detecting and separating rice prolamin polypeptides by 2D-PAGE analysis because prolamin polypeptides are insoluble, and the amino acid sequences show high homology among them. In this study, we improved the prolamin extraction method and the 2D-PAGE procedure, and succeeded in separating prolamin polypeptide species by 2D-PAGE and in identifying major prolamin polypeptide sequences.
22451723	Overexpression of Arabidopsis Reversion-To-ethylene Sensitivity1 (RTE1) results in whole-plant ethylene insensitivity dependent on the ethylene receptor gene Ethylene Response1 (ETR1). However, overexpression of the tomato RTE1 homologue Green Ripe (GR) delays fruit ripening but does not confer whole-plant ethylene insensitivity. It was decided to investigate whether aspects of ethylene-induced growth and development of the monocotyledonous model plant rice could be modulated by rice RTE1 homologues (OsRTH genes). Results from a cross-species complementation test in Arabidopsis showed that OsRTH1 overexpression complemented the rte1-2 loss-of-function mutation and conferred whole-plant ethylene insensitivity in an ETR1-dependent manner. In contrast, OsRTH2 and OsRTH3 overexpression did not complement rte1-2 or confer ethylene insensitivity. In rice, OsRTH1 overexpression substantially prevented ethylene-induced alterations in growth and development, including leaf senescence, seedling leaf elongation and development, coleoptile elongation or curvature, and adventitious root development. Results of subcellular localizations of OsRTHs, each fused with the green fluorescent protein, in onion epidermal cells suggested that the three OsRTHs were predominantly localized to the Golgi. OsRTH1 may be an RTE1 orthologue of rice and modulate rice ethylene responses. The possible roles of auxins and gibberellins in the ethylene-induced alterations in growth were evaluated and the biological significance of ethylene in the early stage of rice seedling growth is discussed.
22451856	To test the efficacy of a proprietary nutraceutical combination in reducing insulin resistance associated with the metabolic syndrome (MetS). Sixty-four patients with MetS followed at a tertiary outpatient clinic were randomly assigned to receive either placebo or a proprietary nutraceutical combination (AP) consisting of berberine, policosanol and red yeast rice, in a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Evaluations were performed at baseline and after 18 wk of treatment. The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index was the primary outcome measure. Secondary endpoints included lipid panel, blood glucose and insulin fasting, after a standard mixed meal and after an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), flow-mediated dilation (FMD), and waist circumference. Fifty nine patients completed the study, 2 withdrew because of adverse effects. After 18 wk there was a significant reduction in the HOMA-IR index in the AP group compared with placebo (ΔHOMA respectively -0.6 ± 1.2 vs 0.4 ± 1.9; P < 0.05). Total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol also significantly decreased in the treatment arm compared with placebo (Δlow density lipoprotein cholesterol -0.82 ± 0.68 vs -0.13 ± 0.55 mmol/L; P < 0.001), while triglycerides, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and the OGTT were not affected. In addition, there were significant reductions in blood glucose and insulin after the standard mixed meal, as well as an increase in FMD (ΔFMD 1.9 ± 4.2 vs 0 ± 1.9 %; P < 0.05) and a significant reduction in arterial systolic blood pressure in the AP arm. This short-term study shows that AP has relevant beneficial effects on insulin resistance and many other components of MetS.
22451926	Histone lysine methylation is an important component of the epigenetic system demarcating transcriptionally active and inactive chromatin domains. It is of primary importance in understanding how different histone lysine methylation marks and a specific combination of them are read and interpreted by chromatin proteins to regulate gene expression. In this paper, we report that the rice CHD3 protein CHR729 that was required for many aspects of plant development can interact with dimethylated histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me2, a mark associated with moderately expressed or repressed genes) and with trimethylated histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3, a mark associated with repressed genes), respectively, through the chromodomains and the plant homeodomain (PHD) finger of the protein. A mutation or down-regulation of the gene provoked a decrease of H3K27me3 and H3K4me3 (a mark associated with active genes). Genome-wide analysis revealed that H3K27me3 and H3K4me3, respectively, were lost from about 56 and 23% of marked loci, which correspond mostly to under-expressed or repressed genes. In the mutant, a higher-than-expected proportion of down-regulated genes lost H3K4me3, among which many encode DNA-binding transcription factors. These results suggest that the rice CHD3 protein is a bifunctional chromatin regulator able to recognize and modulate H3K4 and H3K27 methylation over repressed or tissue-specific genes, which may be associated with regulation of a gene transcription program of plant development.
22452202	Biochars were prepared from straws of rice, peanut and soybean and rice hull using a low temperature pyrolysis method and adsorption of methylene blue by these biochars were investigated with batch and leaching experiments. Results indicated that biochars have high adsorption capacity for methylene blue and followed the order: rice straw char > soybean straw char > peanut straw char > rice hull char. This order is generally consistent with the amount of negative charge and specific surface area of these biochars. While methylene blue was mainly adsorbed specifically by the biochars, because the adsorption of methylene blue increased with the increase of ionic strength and the adsorption led to the shift of zeta potential of biochar particles to positive value direction. Langmuir equation fitted the adsorption isotherms well and can be used to describe the adsorption behaviors of methylene blue by the biochars. The maximum adsorption capacity of methylene blue predicted by langmuir equation was 196.1, 169.5, 129.9 and 89.3 mmol x kg(-1) for rice straw char, soybean straw char, peanut straw char and rice hull char, respectively. Leaching experiments show that rice hull char of 156 g can remove methylene blue from 30 L water containing 0.3 mmol x L(-1) of methylene blue completely and the cumulative amount of methylene blue absorbed by the biochar reaches 57.7 mmol x kg(-1). The biochars can be used as efficient adsorbents to remove methylene blue from waste water of dye.
22452575	The presence of aluminum (Al) in acidic soils is a major abiotic stress limiting the production of cultivated plants. Cell membranes are the main targets of environmental stresses and there is growing evidence for the involvement of membrane lipids in plant adaptation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the mid-long effects of Al on membrane lipid content and composition in the roots and shoots of rice plants grown under hydroponic conditions. Four rice cultivars were compared: two acknowledged as Al-resistant (Koshihikari) and Al-sensitive (Kasalath), respectively, and two Vietnamese cultivars, OM6073 and OM1490. Al treatment inhibited root and shoot growth in the sensitive cultivars and the observed changes in root and shoot lipid and fatty acid composition revealed patterns associated with Al sensitivity: larger decreases in lipid content and decreases in fatty acid unsaturation. In the roots, phospholipids, and particularly phosphatidylcholine (PC), decreased dramatically in the susceptible cultivars whereas the amount of lipid classes remained unchanged in the tolerant ones. In the shoots, the glycolipids monogalactosyldiacylglycerol and digalactosyldiacylglycerol as well as PC were mostly affected by Al treatment in the susceptible varieties. mRNA accumulation corresponding to genes coding for galactolipid synthases, enzymes of the PC and phosphatidylethanolamine biosynthetic pathways and fatty acid desaturases correlated well with changes in lipid contents in roots and partly explained lipid changes in leaves. The results suggested that the capacity to maintain the proper functioning of some lipid biosynthetic activities and hence the stability of lipid composition may help the rice plant to withstand Al stress.
22453778	Carbohydrates, mainly sucrose, that are synthesized in source organs are transported to sink organs to support growth and development. Phloem loading of sucrose is a crucial step that drives long-distance transport by elevating hydrostatic pressure in the phloem. Three phloem loading strategies have been identified, two active mechanisms, apoplastic loading via sucrose transporters and symplastic polymer trapping, and one passive mechanism. The first two active loading mechanisms require metabolic energy, carbohydrate is loaded into the phloem against a concentration gradient. The passive process, diffusion, involves equilibration of sucrose and other metabolites between cells through plasmodesmata. Many higher plant species including Arabidopsis utilize the active loading mechanisms to increase carbohydrate in the phloem to higher concentrations than that in mesophyll cells. In contrast, recent data revealed that a large number of plants, especially woody species, load sucrose passively by maintaining a high concentration in mesophyll cells. However, it still remains to be determined how the worldwide important cereal crop, rice, loads sucrose into the phloem in source organs. Based on the literature and our results, we propose a potential strategy of phloem loading in rice. Elucidation of the phloem loading mechanism should improve our understanding of rice development and facilitate its manipulation towards the increase of crop productivity.
22454611	Poor seed germination and early seedling growth associated with urea-induced soil ammonia volatilization are major constraints in the adoption of dry direct-seeded rice. To directly examine soil ammonia volatilization and its damage to seed germination and early seedling growth of dry direct-seeded rice when urea is applied at seeding, two Petri-dish incubation experiments and a field experiment were conducted. Ammonia volatilization due to urea application significantly reduced seed germination and early seedling growth of dry direct-seedling rice. NBPT significantly reduced ammonia volatilization following urea application. The application of ammonium sulfate, instead of urea at seeding, may mitigate poor crop establishment of dry direct-seeded rice. Root growth of dry direct-seeded rice was more seriously inhibited by soil ammonia volatilization than that of shoot. Results suggest that roots are more sensitive to soil ammonia toxicity than shoots in dry direct-seeded rice system when N is applied as urea at seeding.
22455904	NAC (NAM/ATAF/CUC) plant transcription factors regulate essential processes in development, stress responses and nutrient distribution in important crop and model plants (rice, Populus, Arabidopsis), which makes them highly relevant in the context of crop optimization and bioenergy production. The structure of the DNA-binding NAC domain of ANAC019 has previously been determined by X-ray crystallography, revealing a dimeric and predominantly β-fold structure, but the mode of binding to cognate DNA has remained elusive. In the present study, information from low resolution X-ray structures and small angle X-ray scattering on complexes with oligonucleotides, mutagenesis and (DNase I and uranyl photo-) footprinting, is combined to form a structural view of DNA-binding, and for the first time provide experimental evidence for the speculated relationship between plant-specific NAC proteins, WRKY transcription factors and the mammalian GCM (Glial cell missing) transcription factors, which all use a β-strand motif for DNA-binding. The structure shows that the NAC domain inserts the edge of its core β-sheet into the major groove, while leaving the DNA largely undistorted. The structure of the NAC-DNA complex and a new crystal form of the unbound NAC also indicate limited flexibility of the NAC dimer arrangement, which could be important in recognizing suboptimal binding sites.
22456068	To investigate the clinical features, mutation of the GNAS1 and pathogenesis of progressive osseous heteroplasia (POH). The typical clinical, pathological and radiographic features of a boy with POH were collected and summarized following family survey. The GNAS1 gene sequence of all family members were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the products were sequenced directly to identify the mutations. A literature review and long-term follow up were also conducted. The patient was an 11-year-old boy who had the onset in infancy, which indicates a chronic progressive cause of disease. The clinical features include the unsmooth local skin of the right shank where spread many rigid rice-like or irregular slabby uplifts, slabby bone-like sclerosis on the left lower mandible, left masticatory muscles, in lateral subcutaneous site of left hip joint and deep tissue, accompanied by gradually progressive difficulty in opening mouth. Histopathology showed that there were loosened hyperplasia of fibroblast and interstitial edema with punctiformed ossification. Radiographs showed flocculence hyperdense image in the subcutaneous tissues and muscles around left lower mandible, and the left masticatory muscles were obviously involved. The 3-dimensional computed tomography showed dislocations of the left temporomandibular joint. Sheeted hyperdense image with inequable density could be noted in lateral muscles of the left hip. And lamellar hyperdense image parallel to the long axis of the bone could be seen in the subcutaneous dorsum of the left foot and achilles tendon. Macro-thumb and of brachydactylia of the hands and feet were not present. The level of calcium, phosphorus and alkaline phosphatase in the blood were normal. Brother of same father but different mothers was free of the disease and no patient of the same disease was found in maternal line and paternal lines. A mutated allele in exon 7 and a polymorphism in exon 5 were found in GNAS1 gene in both of the patient and his father. There is possibility/likelihood/probability that Chinese children could develop POH. Translocated dermal ossification began in infancy and shows a progressive cause in childhood. The disease is characterized by the heterotopic ossification of the skin, deep tissue, muscles and facial surface tissues. The location of the mutation in this study was different from that reported in abroad studies although exist in the same exons.
22457556	Tridax procumbens L. (Compositae) is a common weed that grows in the rice fields of India. Traditionally the juice from leaves of Tridax procumbens has been used for healing dermal wound. However, in experimental studies, equivocal pro and anti-healing action of T. procumbens has been demonstrated. The present study evaluates the effect of topical ointment formulation of the leaf juice of T. procumbens using excision wound model in mice. Excision wounds (4 mm, i.d.) were inflicted on depilated back of mice. Ointment formulation of TP (50 mg of either 1 or 4 mg/g) was applied twice daily for 4 days on the dermal wound. Similarly, control group was treated with VEGF ointment (50 mg of 1 μg/g). The parameters observed were re-epithelization, vascularity, fibroblast number, collagen content. The healing exerted by TP (1 mg/g) was comparable to VEGF (1 μg/g). On the other hand, TP (4 mg/g) induced inflammation, edematous tissue and decreased vascularity. Taken together, the results imply that TP possesses dose dependent pro-healing potential, and its high dose exerts inflammatory reaction.
22457828	Heading date and grain weight are two determining agronomic traits of crop yield. To date, molecular factors controlling both heading date and grain weight have not been identified. Here we report the isolation of a hemizygous mutation, heading and grain weight (hgw), which delays heading and reduces grain weight in rice. Analysis of hgw mutant phenotypes indicate that the hemizygous hgw mutation decreases latitudinal cell number in the lemma and palea, both composing the spikelet hull that is known to determine the size and shape of brown grain. Molecular cloning and characterization of the HGW gene showed that it encodes a novel plant-specific ubiquitin-associated (UBA) domain protein localized in the cytoplasm and nucleus, and functions as a key upstream regulator to promote expressions of heading date- and grain weight-related genes. Moreover, co-expression analysis in rice and Arabidopsis indicated that HGW and its Arabidopsis homolog are co-expressed with genes encoding various components of ubiquitination machinery, implying a fundamental role for the ubiquitination pathway in heading date and grain weight control.
22458015	A study was undertaken to evaluate the human energy consumption of various field operations involved in lowland rice cultivation in Malaysia. Based on recorded average heart rates, fertilizing was found to be the most strenuous operation, with an average heart rate of 138 beats min(-1). There were no significant differences in the average heart rates of the subjects among the individual tasks within the first plowing, second plowing, and harvesting operations, with the average heart rates for these three tasks being 116, 106, and 106 beats min(-1), respectively. The corresponding energy expenditures were 3.90, 3.43, and 3.35 kcal min(-1). Loading the seed into the blower tank and broadcasting the seed were the most critical tasks for the seed broadcasting operation, with average heart rates of 124 and 136 beats min(-1), respectively. The highest energy expenditure of 418.38 kcal ha(-1) was observed for seed broadcasting, and the lowest energy expenditure of 127.96 kcal ha(-1) was for second plowing. The total seasonal human energy expenditure for rice cultivation was estimated to be 5810.71 kcal ha(-1), 55.7% of which was spent on pesticide spraying. Although the sample size in this study was relatively small, the results indicated that human energy expenditure per unit area (kcal ha(-1)) was positively linked to the average heart rate of the subjects and negatively linked to the field capacity. Thus, mechanization of certain tasks could decrease worker physical effort and fatigue and increase production.
22458212	Tagosodes orizicolus is one of the main plagues of rice in tropical America causing two types of damages, the direct one, feeding and oviposition effect, and an indirect one, by the transmission of the "Rice hoja blanca virus". During 2006-2007 we carried out research under greenhouse conditions at Fundaci6n Danac, Venezuela, in order to determine the mechanisms of antixenosis, antibiosis and tolerance to T. orizicolus, which could be acting in commercial varieties and advanced lines of the rice genetic breeding programs of INIA and Fundaci6n Danac. The method of free feeding was used for the antixenosis evaluation, whereas the method of forced feeding was used for antibiosis evaluation (effect on survival and oviposition). Additionally, we used the indirect method based on biomass depression to estimate the tolerance. Some of the evaluated traits included: grade of damage, number of insects settling on rice plants, percentage of sogata mortality at the mature state, number of eggs in the leaf midrib and an index of tolerance. The results showed that rice genotypes possess different combinations of resistance mechanisms, as well as different grades of reactions. The susceptible control 'Bluebonnet 50' was consistently susceptible across experiments and the resistant control 'Makalioka' had high antixenosis and high antibiosis based on survival and oviposition. The rest of the genotypes presented lower or higher degrees of antixenosis and antibiosis for survival and oviposition. The genotype 'FD0241-M-17-6-1-1-1-1' was identified with possible tolerance to the direct damage of sogata.
22458437	F(2) and BC(1) populations derived from the cross between 02428 / Rathu Heenati were used to investigate small brown planthopper (SBPH) resistance. Using the F(2) population, three QTLs for antixenosis against SBPH were located on chromosomes 2, 5 and 6, and accounted for 30.75% of the phenotypic variance; three QTLs for antibiosis against SBPH were detected on chromosomes 8, 9 and 12. qSBPH5-c explaining 7.21% of phenotypic variance for antibiosis was identified on chromosome 5 using the BC(1) population. A major QTL, qSBPH12-a1, explained about 40% of the phenotypic variance, and a minor QTL, qSBPH4-a, was detected by the SSST method in both the F(2) and BC(1) populations. The QTLs indentified in the present study will be useful for marker assisted selection of SBPH resistance in rice.
22458550	Two major risk factors for the onset of fatty liver disease are excessive alcohol intake and obesity, the latter being associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The aim of this study was to examine the effects of black rice extract (BRE) on hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance in high-fat diet-fed mice, providing a model of NAFLD. Twenty-four mice were randomly divided into three groups (n = 8 in each group): normal fat diet (ND), high fat diet (HF), and high fat diet supplemented with 1% (w/w) BRE (HF +1% BRE). The experimental diets were fed for seven weeks. A HF induced hepatic steatosis with significant increases in the serum levels of free fatty acids (FFAs), triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and insulin. By contrast, supplementary BRE (10 g/kg of diet) included in the HF alleviated hepatic steatosis and significantly decreased serum TG and TC levels (p < 0.01 for both). Dietary BRE also increased expression of fatty acid metabolism-related genes, including carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT1A), acyl-CoA oxidase (ACO), cytochrome P450 (CYP4A10), and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR)-α (p < 0.05 for all). Dietary BRE supplementation improved serum lipid profiles and significantly enhanced mRNA expression levels of fatty acid metabolism-related genes, primarily via β-oxidation and ω-oxidation in the liver. Taken together, these findings suggest that a BRE-supplemented diet could be useful in reducing the risks of hepatic steatosis and related disorders, including hyperlipidemia and hyperglycemia.
22458778	Sexual reproduction is common in eukaryotic microorganisms, with few species reproducing exclusively asexually. However, in some organisms, such as fungi, asexual reproduction alternates with episodic sexual reproduction events. Fungi are thus appropriate organisms for studies of the reasons for the selection of sexuality or clonality and of the mechanisms underlying this selection. Magnaporthe oryzae, an Ascomycete causing blast disease on rice, reproduces mostly asexually in natura. Sexual reproduction is possible in vitro and requires (i) two strains of opposite mating types including (ii) at least one female-fertile strain (i.e. a strain able to produce perithecia, the female organs in which meiosis occurs). Female-fertile strains are found only in limited areas of Asia, in which evidence for contemporary recombination has recently been obtained. We induced the forced evolution of four Chinese female-fertile strains in vitro by the weekly transfer of asexual spores (conidia) between Petri dishes. We aimed to determine whether female fertility was rapidly lost in the absence of sexual reproduction and whether this loss was controlled genetically or epigenetically. All the strains became female-sterile after 10 to 19 rounds of selection under asexual conditions. As no single-spore isolation was carried out, the observed decrease in the production of perithecia reflected the emergence and the invasion of female-sterile mutants. The female-sterile phenotype segregated in the offspring of crosses between female-sterile evolved strains and female-fertile wild-type strains. This segregation was maintained in the second generation in backcrosses. Female-sterile evolved strains were subjected to several stresses, but none induced the restoration of female fertility. This loss of fertility was therefore probably due to genetic rather than epigenetic mechanisms. In competition experiments, female-sterile mutants produced similar numbers of viable conidia to wild-type strains, but released them more efficiently. This advantage may account for the invasion of our populations by female-sterile mutants. We show for the first time that, in the absence of sexual reproduction, female-sterile mutants of M. oryzae rice strains can arise and increase in abundance in asexual generations. This change in phenotype was frequent and probably caused by mutation. These results suggest that female fertility may have been lost rapidly during the dispersion of the fungus from Asia to the rest of the world.
22458969	Six conserved, charged amino acids within membrane spans in rice sucrose transporter OsSUT1 were identified using a three-dimensional structural model based on the crystal structures of three major facilitator superfamily (MFS) proteins: LacY, GlpT, and EmrD. These positions in OsSUT1 were selected for mutagenesis and biochemical assays. Among the six mutants, D177N completely lost transport function, D331N retained only a small fraction of sucrose uptake activity (2.3% of that of the wild type), and R335H and E336Q also displayed a substantial decrease in transport activity. D329N functioned as well as wild-type OsSUT1. R188K did not transport sucrose but showed a H(+) leak that was inhibited by sucrose, indicating that R188K had uncoupled sucrose and H(+) translocation. This demonstrates that charged amino acids within membrane spans are important for the transport mechanism of OsSUT1 as they are in lactose permease.
22459757	Trivalent aluminium (Al(3+)) is the major toxin encountered by plants on acid soils. These cations inhibit root growth by damaging cells at the root apex. The physiology and genetics of Al(3+) tolerance mechanisms involving organic anion efflux from roots have now been investigated in a range of species. Over the past decade, genes encoding these and other newly discovered mechanisms of tolerance have been cloned. In this review, we describe the genes controlling the genotypic variation in Al(3+) tolerance for several important crop species. We focus on recent insights into the transcriptional regulation of these and other genes involved in Al(3+) tolerance and discuss the pathways coordinating their expression in Arabidopsis and rice.
22459980	Multiple biomarker systems have been frequently used to measure the genotoxic effects of environmental pollutants (including heavy metals) on living organisms. In this study, we used leaves of hydroponically grown 14 days old seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa) varieties (PB1 and IR64) treated with 50, 150 and 300 μM arsenite (As(III)) for 24 and 96 h duration. Reduction in seed germination, root-shoot length, chlorophyll and protein were observed with increasing As(III) concentration and duration in both varieties, being more in IR64. Increase/decrease of antioxidant enzymes and stress related parameters showed much changes at higher concentration for 24 and 96 h duration in both varieties. Eleven primers were found in RAPD analysis to produce polymorphic band pattern and produced a total of 51 (control), 79 (treated) and 42 (control) and 29 (treated) bands in PB1 and IR64 varieties, respectively. These results indicated that genomic template stability (GTS, changes in RAPD profile) was significantly affected at all tested As(III) concentration, when compared with other parameters. Differential response was observed in both varieties with PB1 being more tolerant. We concluded that DNA polymorphism detected by RAPD analysis in conjunction with other biochemical parameters could be a powerful eco-toxicological tool in bio-monitoring arsenic pollution.
22461377	Clomazone is a popular herbicide used on California rice fields and exhibits rapid anaerobic microbial degradation (t(1/2) = 7.9 days). To test the potential of direct and indirect photolytic degradation as a cofactor in the overall degradation rate, sacrificial time-series microcosms were amended with water, non-sterilized soil + water and sterilized soil + water. Clomazone was added to each microcosm, which was then exposed to natural and artificial sunlight over 35 days. Water and acetonitrile extracts were analyzed for clomazone and metabolites via LC/MS/MS. The calculated pseudo-first-order degradation rate constants (k) were k(water) = 0-0.005 ± 0.003 day(-1) , k(sterile) = 0-0.005 ± 0.003 day(-1) and k(non-sterile) = 0.010 ± 0.002-0.044 ± 0.007 day(-1) , depending on light type. The formation of ring-open clomazone, a microbial metabolite, correlated with clomazone degradation. Trace amounts of 5-hydroxyclomazone (m/z = 256 → 125), aromatic hydroxyclomazone (m/z = 256 → 141) and an unknown product (m/z = 268 → 125) were observed. The photolytic degradation rate depends on both light type and the quality of the chromophores that induce indirect photolysis. Microbial degradation was found to be sensitive to temperature fluctuations. Overall, microbes are shown to be more detrimental to the environmental fate of clomazone than photolysis.
22461671	We report a case of an agricultural worker presenting with corneal infiltrate following ocular injury with a rice husk. On examination, a superficial corneal foreign body was removed and sent for culture, which grew Pantoea ananatis. This is, to our knowledge, the first clinical case report of Pantoea ananatis causing corneal infiltrate.
22462395	The rice roots are highly salt-sensitive organ and primary root growth is rapidly suppressed by salt stress. Sucrose nonfermenting 1-related protein kinase2 (SnRK2) family is one of the key regulator of hyper-osmotic stress signalling in various plant cells. To understand early salt response of rice roots and identify SnRK2 signaling components, proteome changes of transgenic rice roots over-expressing OSRK1, a rice SnRK2 kinase were investigated. Proteomes were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis and protein spots were identified by LC-MS/MS from wild type and OSRK1 transgenic rice roots exposed to 150 mM NaCl for either 3 h or 7 h. Fifty two early salt -responsive protein spots were identified from wild type rice roots. The major up-regulated proteins were enzymes related to energy regulation, amino acid metabolism, methylglyoxal detoxification, redox regulation and protein turnover. It is noted that enzymes known to be involved in GA-induced root growth such as fructose bisphosphate aldolase and methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase were clearly down-regulated. In contrast to wild type rice roots, only a few proteins were changed by salt stress in OSRK1 transgenic rice roots. A comparative quantitative analysis of the proteome level indicated that forty three early salt-responsive proteins were magnified in transgenic rice roots at unstressed condition. These proteins contain single or multiple potential SnRK2 recognition motives. In vitro kinase assay revealed that one of the identified proteome, calreticulin is a good substrate of OSRK1. Our present data implicate that rice roots rapidly changed broad spectrum of energy metabolism upon challenging salt stress, and suppression of GA signaling by salt stress may be responsible for the rapid arrest of root growth and development. The broad spectrum of functional categories of proteins affected by over-expression of OSRK1 indicates that OSRK1 is an upstream regulator of stress signaling in rice roots. Enzymes involved in glycolysis, branched amino acid catabolism, dnaK-type molecular chaperone, calcium binding protein, Sal T and glyoxalase are potential targets of OSRK1 in rice roots under salt stress that need to be further investigated.
22462517	Dietary habits established in early childhood contribute to lifelong dietary pattern and the development of early risk factors for disease in adulthood. Although a large body of epidemiologic data from Western countries show that the dietary pattern of children is influenced by maternal socio-economic and lifestyle characteristics, information on this topic in non-Western countries is absolutely lacking. The present study identified dietary patterns among infants aged 16-24 months, and then examined the influence of maternal socio-economic and lifestyle characteristics on identified dietary patterns. Subjects were 758 Japanese mother-child pairs. Dietary data of infants were collected from the mothers using a questionnaire. Dietary patterns were extracted from the consumption of 15 foods (times week(-1)) by cluster analysis. The following two dietary patterns were identified: 'fruits, vegetables and high-protein foods' (n = 483) and 'confectionaries and sweetened beverages' (n = 275) patterns. After adjustment for all other predictors, maternal educational level, number of infants' siblings and maternal dietary patterns were independently associated with dietary patterns of infants. Infants whose mothers had a higher educational level and the 'rice, fish and vegetables' dietary pattern were less likely to belong to the 'confectionaries and sweetened beverages' pattern, whereas infants whose mothers had a higher number of children and the 'wheat product' dietary pattern were more likely to belong to the 'confectionaries and sweetened beverages' than the 'fruits, vegetables and high-protein foods' pattern. In conclusion, the mother's socio-economic position and dietary patterns were associated with the dietary patterns of infants in the Japanese pairs as observed in the Western populations.
22462633	Although the functional roles of glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins (GRPs) during stress adaptation have been extensively evaluated in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa), the stress-responsive roles of a majority of GRPs have not been characterized in other plant species including rapeseed (Brassica napus). Here, the characteristic features and stress-responsive expression patterns of GRPs in B. napus (BnGRPs) were investigated. The genome of B. napus contains seven closely related BnGRPs, where the amino acid sequences of a well-conserved RNA-recognition motif at the N-terminal region are highly similar to each other but the sequences of the C-terminal glycine-rich region vary greatly among different BnGRPs. The transcript levels of all BnGRPs were markedly upregulated by cold stress, while their expression was significantly downregulated by dehydration or high salinity stress. Among the seven BnGRPs evaluated, BnGRP1 was characterized in more detail for its cellular localization and functional role as an RNA chaperone under cold stress. Cold-induced BnGRP1 successfully complemented the cold-sensitive phenotype of Escherichia coli mutant BX04 cells under cold stress, and harbored DNA- and RNA-melting abilities. Ectopic expression of BnGRP1 in Arabidopsis resulted in accelerated seed germination and enhanced freezing tolerance of the plant under cold or freezing stress. Collectively, the results of this study support the emerging idea that GRPs are functionally conserved RNA chaperones during the cold adaptation process in diverse plant species.
22463712	Grain yield is one of the most important indexes in rice breeding, which is governed by quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Different mapping populations have been used to explore the QTLs controlling yield related traits. Primary populations such as F(2) and recombinant inbred line populations have been widely used to discover QTLs in rice genome-wide, with hundreds of yield-related QTLs detected. Advanced populations such as near isogenic lines (NILs) are efficient to further fine-map and clone target QTLs. NILs for primarily identified QTLs have been proposed and confirmed to be the ideal population for map-based cloning. To date, 20 QTLs directly affecting rice grain yield and its components have been cloned with NIL-F(2) populations, and 14 new grain yield QTLs have been validated in the NILs. The molecular mechanisms of a continuously increasing number of genes are being unveiled, which aids in the understanding of the formation of grain yield. Favorable alleles for rice breeding have been 'mined' from natural cultivars and wild rice by association analysis of known functional genes with target trait performance. Reasonable combination of favorable alleles has the potential to increase grain yield via use of functional marker assisted selection.
22465006	Proteins containing hemopexin fold domain are suggested to have diverse functions in various living organisms. In order to investigate the structure and function of this type of protein in rice plant (Oryza sativa), the gene encoding a hemopexin fold protein (OsHFP) was cloned, analyzed in silico and characterized. Molecular modeling revealed that the OsHFP is closely related to other hemopexin fold proteins, but is unique with a cylindrical central tunnel as well as extended N- and C-terminal domains. The recombinant OsHFP was found to bind hemin, the oxidized form of heme in vitro. The expression of the single copy OsHFP gene was detected in rice flower buds. Heterologous expression of OsHFP in green leaf tissues resulted in chlorophyll degradation; however, stable expression of OsHFP was observed in transgenic hairy roots, a non-green tissue. The possible role of OsHFP in regulating programmed cell death in anther green tissues of rice is proposed.
22465901	Wellmune WGP is a food supplement containing a refined 1,3/1,6 glucopolysaccharide that improves the antimicrobial activity of the innate immune cells by the priming of lectin sites. This study aimed to investigate whether Wellmune decreases the frequency and severity of upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) symptoms over 90 d during the peak URTI season in healthy university students. The secondary aims included an assessment of plasma cytokine and chemokine levels. This was a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial lasting 90 d. One hundred healthy individuals (18-65 y old, mean age ~21 y) were randomized to 250 mg of Wellmune once daily or to an identical rice flour-based placebo. Health was recorded daily and two or more reported URTI symptoms for 2 consecutive days triggered a medical assessment and blood collection within 24 h. The URTI symptom severity was monitored. Plasma cytokines and chemokines were measured at day 0, day 90, and during the confirmed URTI. Ninety-seven participants completed the trial (Wellmune, n = 48; placebo, n = 49). The Wellmune tended to decrease the total number of days with URTI symptoms (198 d, 4.6%, versus 241 d, 5.5% in the control group, P = 0.06). The ability to "breathe easily" was significantly improved in the Wellmune group; the other severity scores showed no significant difference. Cytokines and chemokines were not different between the groups at study entry or day 90, but monocyte chemotactic protein-1 was lower in the Wellmune group during the URTI. Wellmune may decrease the duration and severity of URTI. Larger studies are needed to demonstrate this.
22466020	Carefully analyzed expression profiles can serve as a valuable reference for deciphering gene functions. We exploited the potential of whole genome microarrays to measure the spatial and temporal expression profiles of rice genes in 19 stages of vegetative and reproductive development. We could verify expression of 22,980 genes in at least one of the tissues. Differential expression analysis with respect to five vegetative tissues and preceding stages of development revealed reproductive stage-preferential/-specific genes. By using subtractive logic, we identified 354 and 456 genes expressing specifically during panicle and seed development, respectively. The metabolic/hormonal pathways and transcription factor families playing key role in reproductive development were elucidated after overlaying the expression data on the public databases and manually curated list of transcription factors, respectively. During floral meristem differentiation (P1) and male meiosis (P3), the genes involved in jasmonic acid and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis were significantly upregulated. P6 stage of panicle, containing mature gametophytes, exhibited enrichment of transcripts involved in homogalacturonon degradation. Genes regulating auxin biosynthesis were induced during early seed development. We validated the stage-specificity of regulatory regions of three panicle-specific genes, OsAGO3, OsSub42, and RTS, and an early seed-specific gene, XYH, in transgenic rice. The data generated here provides a snapshot of the underlying complexity of the gene networks regulating rice reproductive development.
2246708
22467369	Field experiments provide an opportunity to study the effects of fertilization on soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration. We sampled soils from a long-term (25 years) paddy experiment in subtropical China. The experiment included eight treatments: (1) check, (2) PK, (3) NP, (4) NK, (5) NPK, (6) 7F:3M (N, P, K inorganic fertilizers+30% organic N), (7) 5F:5M (N, P, K inorganic fertilizers+50% organic N), (8) 3F:7M (N, P, K inorganic fertilizers+70% organic N). Fertilization increased SOC content in the plow layers compared to the non-fertilized check treatment. The SOC density in the top 100 cm of soil ranged from 73.12 to 91.36 Mg/ha. The SOC densities of all fertilizer treatments were greater than that of the check. Those treatments that combined inorganic fertilizers and organic amendments had greater SOC densities than those receiving only inorganic fertilizers. The SOC density was closely correlated to the sum of the soil carbon converted from organic amendments and rice residues. Carbon sequestration in paddy soils could be achieved by balanced and combined fertilization. Fertilization combining both inorganic fertilizers and organic amendments is an effective sustainable practice to sequestrate SOC.
22467408	To meet the demands of a larger and more affluent global population, wheat yields must increase faster this century than last, with less irrigation, fertilizer, and land. Modelling and experiments consistently demonstrate a large potential for increasing wheat productivity by improving root systems; however, application of research to new varieties is slow because of the inherent difficulties associated with working underground. This review makes the case for the use of the model grass Brachypodium distachyon to simplify root research and accelerate the identification of genes underlying wheat root improvement. Brachypodium is a small temperate grass with many genomic, genetic, and experimental resources that make it a tractable model plant. Brachypodium and wheat have very similar root anatomies which are distinct from rice root anatomy that is specialized to help it overcome anaerobic conditions associated with submerged roots. As a dicotyledonous plant, Arabidopsis has an even more divergent root system that features a tap root system and cambia with secondary growth, both of which are lacking in the grasses. The major advantage of Brachypodium is its small stature that allows the adult grass root system to be readily phenotyped, unlike rice and maize. This will facilitate the identification of genes in adult roots that greatly influence yield by modulating water uptake during flowering and grain development. A summary of the advantages of Brachypodium for root studies is presented, including the adult root system architecture and root growth during grain development. Routes to translate discoveries from Brachypodium to wheat are also discussed.
22468354	Choline is a water-soluble nutrient important for infants' brain and neural development. In infant formulas, choline is one of the important fortified nutrients. A single-laboratory validation study conducted an LC-electrospray ionization-MS/MS to determine total choline in infant formulas. Sample preparation was adopted from AOAC Official Method 999.14, and instrumental running conditions were optimized. The LOQ was 0.2 microg/100 g, which is significant for measuring total choline in infant formulas. Average recoveries for milk-, rice-, soybean-, and hydrolyzed protein-based samples ranged from 86.45 +/- 6.04% to 108.98 +/- 3.68%, with RSD less than 7%. The repeatability RSD (RSD(r)) range was 0.24-3.59% in within-day evaluation and 1.16-3.24% in day-to-day evaluation. Matrix effect was also investigated, and can be effectively eliminated by using an internal standard. Therefore, this method has high credibility, and could be used as a routine method of quality control, or for clinical studies and other research areas.
22468358	Qualitative and quantitative analytical methods based on PCR for Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) rice hybrid, namely, MRP 5401 Bt expressing a modified version of the Bt cry1Ac gene, are reported here. Multiplex PCR assays were developed to target the cry1Ac transgene, Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, Agrobacterium tumefaciens nopaline synthase (nos) terminator, the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptLL) marker gene, and an endogenous a-tubulin (TubA) gene in Bt rice. The 3.178 kb region of inserted gene construct comprising the region of the CaMV 35S promoter and cry1Ac gene was amplified, and the construct integrity was confirmed by the nested PCR. The LOD for cry1Ac gene-specific simplex PCR was 0.01%, as established using Bt rice DNA dilutions with 100, 10, 1.0, 0.1, 0.05, 0.01, and 0.001% genetically modified trait. A real-time PCR assay was also developed to quantify the cry1Ac gene. The method performance of the reported real-time PCR assay was in line with the acceptance criteria of Codex Alimentarius Commission ALINORM 10/33/23, with LOD and LOQ values of 0.05%. The reliable PCR assays prior to commercial release of Bt rice would facilitate efficient regulatory compliance for identification of genetic trait, labeling requirements, and effective risk assessment and management. They could also address consumers' concerns and legal disputes that may arise.
22468361	The performance of Gluten-Tec (EuroProxima, Arnhem, The Netherlands) was tested through an interlaboratory study in accordance with AOAC guidelines. Gluten-Tec is a competitive ELISA that detects an immunostimulatory epitope of a-gliadin in dietary food for celiacs. Fifteen laboratories, representing 14 different countries, announced their interest in taking part in this study. Of the 12 laboratories that sent the results within the established timeframe, two submitted inappropriate standard curves and were excluded from the statistical analysis. Four different food matrixes (rice-based baby food, maize bread, chocolate cake mix, and beer) were selected for preparing the test samples. Two gliadin extraction procedures were used: the conventional 60% ethanol, and a new method based on the reducing reagent dithiothreitol. The 38 samples (19 blind duplicates) tested in this study were prepared by diluting the different extracts in order to cover a wide range of gliadin levels. Both sample extraction and dilution were performed by EuroProxima; the present interlaboratory study was focused only on testing the ELISA part of the Gluten-Tec kit protocol. Repeatability values (within-laboratory variance), expressed as RSD(r) ranged from 6.2 to 25.7%, while reproducibility values (interlaboratory variance), expressed as RSD(R), ranged from 10.6 to 45.9%. Both statistical parameters were in the acceptable range of ELISAs under these conditions, and the method will be presented to the Codex Alimentarius as a preferred method for gluten analysis.
22469001	Mitochondrial genomes of spermatophytes are the largest of all organellar genomes. Their large size has been attributed to various factors; however, the relative contribution of these factors to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) expansion remains undetermined. We estimated their relative contribution in Malus domestica (apple). The mitochondrial genome of apple has a size of 396 947 bp and a one to nine ratio of coding to non-coding DNA, close to the corresponding average values for angiosperms. We determined that 71.5% of the apple mtDNA sequence was highly similar to sequences of its nuclear DNA. Using nuclear gene exons, nuclear transposable elements and chloroplast DNA as markers of promiscuous DNA content in mtDNA, we estimated that approximately 20% of the apple mtDNA consisted of DNA sequences imported from other cell compartments, mostly from the nucleus. Similar marker-based estimates of promiscuous DNA content in the mitochondrial genomes of other species ranged between 21.2 and 25.3% of the total mtDNA length for grape, between 23.1 and 38.6% for rice, and between 47.1 and 78.4% for maize. All these estimates are conservative, because they underestimate the import of non-functional DNA. We propose that the import of promiscuous DNA is a core mechanism for mtDNA size expansion in seed plants. In apple, maize and grape this mechanism contributed far more to genome expansion than did homologous recombination. In rice the estimated contribution of both mechanisms was found to be similar.
22470056	Lutein is the most abundant plant carotenoid and plays essential roles in photosystem assembly and stabilization, as well as protection against photostress. To date, only a few lutein biosynthesis genes have been identified in crop plants. In this study, the rice Cyt P450 gene CYP97A4 encoding a carotenoid β-ring hydroxylase was shown to be involved in lutein biosynthesis. The results revealed that CYP97A4 was preferentially expressed in leaf compared with spikelet, sheath, stalk and root, and encoded a protein localized at the subcellular level to the chloroplasts. Compared with the wild type, the three allelic mutants of CYP97A4 displayed lutein reductions of 12-24% with substantially increased α-carotene, while Chl a/b levels were unaltered. The increased α-carotene in the mutants led to greater sensitivity under high light stress. Similarly, reactive oxygen species (ROS) imaging of leaves treated with intense light showed that the mutants generally accumulated greater levels of ROS compared with wild-type plants, which probably caused detrimental effects to the plant photosystem. In conclusion, this study demonstrated the important role of CYP97A4 in α-carotene hydroxylation in rice, and knock-out of the gene reduced lutein and increased α-carotene, contributing to sensitivity to intense light.
22470057	The effects of overexpression of Rubisco activase on photosynthesis were studied in transgenic rice expressing barley or maize Rubisco activase. Immunoblot and SDS-PAGE analyses showed that transgenic lines from both gene constructs expressed the foreign Rubisco activase at high levels. The activation state of Rubisco in transgenic lines was slightly higher than that in non-transgenic plants (NT). In addition, light activation of Rubisco was significantly more rapid in transgenic lines compared with NT. These findings indicate that the overexpression of Rubisco activase can enhance Rubisco activation. However, despite enhanced activation of Rubisco in these transgenic plants, the CO(2) assimilation rate at ambient CO(2) conditions was decreased. This decrease in CO(2) assimilation rate was observed in both young developing and mature leaves independent of nitrogen nutrition. The contents of nitrogen and Chl did not differ significantly between transformants and NT; however, Rubisco content was substantially decreased in transgenic lines. There was no evidence for reduced transcription of RbcS or RbcL in these transgenic lines; in fact, transcript levels were marginally increased compared with NT. These results indicate that the overexpression of Rubisco activase leads to a decrease in Rubisco content, possibly due to post-transcriptional mechanisms.
22470496	The agro-ecology and poultry husbandry of the south Asian and south-east Asian countries share common features, however, with noticeable differences. Hence, the ecological determinants associated with risk of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI-H5N1) outbreaks are expected to differ between Bangladesh and e.g., Thailand and Vietnam. The primary aim of the current study was to establish ecological determinants associated with the risk of HPAI-H5N1 outbreaks at subdistrict level in Bangladesh. The secondary aim was to explore the performance of two different statistical modeling approaches for unmeasured spatially correlated variation. An ecological study at subdistrict level in Bangladesh was performed with 138 subdistricts with HPAI-H5N1 outbreaks during 2007-2008, and 326 subdistricts with no outbreaks. The association between ecological determinants and HPAI-H5N1 outbreaks was examined using a generalized linear mixed model. Spatial clustering of the ecological data was modeled using 1) an intrinsic conditional autoregressive (ICAR) model at subdistrict level considering their first order neighbors, and 2) a multilevel (ML) model with subdistricts nested within districts. Ecological determinants significantly associated with risk of HPAI-H5N1 outbreaks at subdistrict level were migratory birds' staging areas, river network, household density, literacy rate, poultry density, live bird markets, and highway network. Predictive risk maps were derived based on the resulting models. The resulting models indicate that the ML model absorbed some of the covariate effect of the ICAR model because of the neighbor structure implied in the two different models. The study identified a new set of ecological determinants related to river networks, migratory birds' staging areas and literacy rate in addition to already known risk factors, and clarified that the generalized concept of free grazing duck and duck-rice cultivation interacted ecology are not significant determinants for Bangladesh. These findings will refine current understanding of the HPAI-H5N1 epidemiology in Bangladesh.
22471214	The sella-rice mill effluent is a major environmental pollutant requiring proper treatment before disposal. The present study has been conducted to isolate and characterize micro-organisms capable of growing on sella-rice effluent and to optimize conditions for its rapid bioremediation. Using three different types of media (LB, YEPDA and PDA), a total of 139 isolates were isolated from effluent samples collected from three different locations. Out of these, 45 isolates were found to utilize starch on starch medium, eight isolates showing high efficiency. For the optimization of conditions for maximum utilization of starch by selected isolates, parameters such as effect of addition of carbon and nitrogen sources, effect of growth factors, temperature and pH were studied. Maximum growth (absorbance of 2.10) and starch-utilization (varying in the range of 2.33 to 3.62) was observed on starch medium supplemented with peptone and yeast extract at 30 degrees C with a pH of 6.0. These bacterial isolates also reduced the amount of starch (80.10%), BOD (64.24%) and COD (75.0%) of sella-rice mill effluent after 15 days of incubation. On the basis of morphological and biochemical characteristics, the selected isolates were found to belong to the genera Lactobacillus and Micrococcus.
22471222	Plant stature of a rice crop is an important selection criterion. As plant height is a quantitative trait it is influenced by environmental conditions. A field experiment was conducted with 40 rice genotypes to assess the fluctuation and stability of plant height in a series of 16 environmental situations. The effects of genotype (G), environment (E) and all the components of GxE interaction were highly significant. Among the genotypes, Jamai sohagi was extremely sensitive (bi = 1.37) to environmental changes, and indicating lowest adaptability over the environments. Plant height of seven genotypes viz. Basmati PNR346, Benaful, BRRIdhan28, BRRIdhan38, BRRIdhan39, Gandho kasturi and Neimat, having the bi values between 0.59 and 0.72, showed high stability against environmental changes. The otherseven genotypes viz. Badshabhog, Basmati Tapl-90, Kamini soru, Khazar, Laljira, Sarwati and Ukni madhu expressed only nonlinear sensitivity (S2di = 90-181)) and thus unpredictable fluctuation. Twenty one genotypes indicated their average stability (bi = 0.91-1.15) over the environments.
22472101	Primitive e-waste dismantling activities have been of increasing concern due to serious environmental and human health problems, and therefore authorities in China have strengthened the regulations on illegal e-waste recycling activities. In this work, we used rice hull as a passive sampler and investigated temporal trends of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in areas near e-waste recycling sites after the stricter regulations. Furthermore, the distribution patterns and composition profiles of these contaminants were also discussed. The average concentrations of the three groups of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in rice hulls have markedly decreased during the period of 2005-2009. Specifically, from 12.9 (average value in 2005) to 0.37 pg WHO-TEQ/g (dry weight, dw) (in 2009) for PCDD/Fs, 47.6 (2005) to 7.10 ng g(-1)dw (2009) for PCBs, and 2.51 (2005) to 0.89 ng g(-1), dw (2009) for PBDEs. The significant decrease of combustion markers 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, 1,2,3,6,7,8HxCDF and PCB126, and the PCDD/PCDF ratio from 1:9 (2005) to 7:3 (2009) is likely a result of stricter regulations on open combustion activities. This study suggests that stricter control measures, strengthened laws and regulations and more environmental friendly techniques could be effective measures in reducing the release and formation of related POPs in typical e-waste dismantling sites, and these measures could further improve the quality of the environment and health of the local inhabitants.
22474413	Mutator-like transposable elements (MULEs) are widespread in plants and the majority have long terminal inverted repeats (TIRs), which distinguish them from other DNA transposons. It is known that the long TIRs of Mutator elements harbor transposase binding sites and promoters for transcription, indicating that the TIR sequence is critical for transposition and for expression of sequences between the TIRs. Here, we report the presence of MULEs with multiple TIRs mostly located in tandem. These elements are detected in the genomes of maize, tomato, rice, and Arabidopsis. Some of these elements are present in multiple copies, suggesting their mobility. For those elements that have amplified, sequence conservation was observed for both of the tandem TIRs. For one MULE family carrying a gene fragment, the elements with tandem TIRs are more prevalent than their counterparts with a single TIR. The successful amplification of this particular MULE demonstrates that MULEs with tandem TIRs are functional in both transposition and duplication of gene sequences.
22474784
22475854	We have developed a novel assay based on the ability of type I sucrose uptake transporters (SUTs) to transport the fluorescent coumarin β-glucoside, esculin. Budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) is routinely used for the heterologous expression of SUTs and does not take up esculin. When type I sucrose transporters StSUT1 from potato or AtSUC2 from Arabidopsis were expressed in yeast, the cells were able to take up esculin and became brightly fluorescent. We tested a variety of incubation times, esculin concentrations, and buffer pH values and found that for these transporters, a 1 hr incubation at 0.1 to 1 mM esculin at pH 4.0 produced fluorescent cells that were easily distinguished from vector controls. Esculin uptake was assayed by several methods including fluorescence microscopy, spectrofluorometry and fluorescence-activiated cell sorting (FACS). Expression of the type II sucrose transporter OsSUT1 from rice did not result in increased esculin uptake under any conditions tested. Results were reproduced successfully in two distinct yeast strains, SEY6210 (an invertase mutant) and BY4742. The esculin uptake assay is rapid and sensitive and should be generally useful for preliminary tests of sucrose transporter function by heterologous expression in yeast. This assay is also suitable for selection of yeast showing esculin uptake activity using FACS.
22476066	Agricultural crop databases maintained in gene banks of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) are valuable sources of information for breeders. These databases provide comparative phenotypic and genotypic information that can help elucidate functional aspects of plant and agricultural biology. To facilitate data sharing within and between these databases and the retrieval of information, the crop ontology (CO) database was designed to provide controlled vocabulary sets for several economically important plant species. Existing public ontologies and equivalent catalogues of concepts covering the range of crop science information and descriptors for crops and crop-related traits were collected from breeders, physiologists, agronomists, and researchers in the CGIAR consortium. For each crop, relationships between terms were identified and crop-specific trait ontologies were constructed following the Open Biomedical Ontologies (OBO) format standard using the OBO-Edit tool. All terms within an ontology were assigned a globally unique CO term identifier. The CO currently comprises crop-specific traits for chickpea (Cicer arietinum), maize (Zea mays), potato (Solanum tuberosum), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum spp.) and wheat (Triticum spp.). Several plant-structure and anatomy-related terms for banana (Musa spp.), wheat and maize are also included. In addition, multi-crop passport terms are included as controlled vocabularies for sharing information on germplasm. Two web-based online resources were built to make these COs available to the scientific community: the 'CO Lookup Service' for browsing the CO; and the 'Crops Terminizer', an ontology text mark-up tool. The controlled vocabularies of the CO are being used to curate several CGIAR centres' agronomic databases. The use of ontology terms to describe agronomic phenotypes and the accurate mapping of these descriptions into databases will be important steps in comparative phenotypic and genotypic studies across species and gene-discovery experiments.
22476068	Purple nutsedge (Cyperus rotundus L.) is a major weed of upland crops and vegetables. Recently, a flood-tolerant ecotype evolved as a serious weed in lowland rice. This study attempted to establish the putative growth and physiological features that led to this shift in adaptation. Tubers of upland C. rotundus (ULCR) and lowland C. rotundus (LLCR) ecotypes were collected from their native habitats and maintained under the respective growth conditions in a greenhouse. Five experiments were conducted to assess the variation between the two ecotypes in germination, growth and tuber morphology when grown in their native or 'switched' conditions. Carbohydrate storage and mobilization, and variation in anaerobic respiration under hypoxia were compared. Tubers of LLCR were larger than those of ULCR, with higher carbohydrate content, and larger tubers developed with increasing floodwater depth. Stems of LLCR had larger diameter and proportionally larger air spaces than those of ULCR: a method of aerating submerged plant parts. The LLCR ecotype can also mobilize and use carbohydrate reserves under hypoxia, and it maintained relatively lower and steadier activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) as a measure of sustained anaerobic respiration. In contrast, ADH activity in ULCR increased faster upon a shift to hypoxia and then sharply decreased, suggesting depletion of available soluble sugar substrates. The LLCR ecotype also maintained lower lactate dehydrogenase activity under flooded conditions, which could reduce chances of cellular acidosis. These adaptive traits in the LLCR ecotype were expressed constitutively, but some of them, such as tuber growth and aerenchyma development, are enhanced with stress severity. The LLCR ecotype attained numerous adaptive traits that could have evolved as a consequence of natural evolution or repeated management practices, and alternative strategies are necessary because flooding is no longer a feasible management option.
22476072	Nitrification is an important process in soil--plant systems for providing plant-available nitrate (NO(3) (-)). However, NO(3) (-) is less stable in soils compared with ammonium (NH(4) (+)) and is more easily lost through leaching, runoff or denitrification. This study tested whether biological nitrification inhibition (BNI) activity is present in the root exudates of rice (Oryza sativa) and also the extent of variation between different genotypes. The BNI activity of root exudates was estimated by a bioluminescence assay using a recombinant Nitrosomonas europaea strain. Afterwards, the effect of a single application of concentrated root exudates and that of exudates deposited in the rhizosphere soil was tested on BNI using soil incubation. Soil was added with (NH(4))(2)SO(4) and water to reach 60 % of the water-holding capacity and incubated at 30 °C for different periods. Amounts of NH(4) (+) and NO(3) (-) were determined using a continuous-flow auto-analyser. In an initial screening experiment, BNI activity in the exudates of 36 different rice genotypes was evaluated using a bioassay based on a recombinant Nitrosomonas strain. Significant genotypic variation was detected with the upland cultivar IAC25 demonstrating consistently high BNI activity, while modern lowland varieties like Nipponbare or IR64 exhibited lower activity. Subsequent experiments ruled out the possibility that BNI activity is simply due to non-specific (solute) leakage from roots. Soil incubation studies with concentrated root exudates of IAC25 showed significant reductions in NO(3) (-) formation. This effect was confirmed by detecting lower NO(3) (-) levels in incubation experiments using rhizosphere soil obtained from IAC25. Our results provide first evidence that root exudates of rice can reduce nitrification rates in soil. Having shown this for a model crop, rice, offers possibilities for further exploitation of this phenomenon through molecular and genetic tools.
22476080	Plants can withstand many abiotic stresses. Stress adaptation through retention of imprints of previous stress exposure has also been described in plants. We have characterized the imprint or memory of adaptive stress responses of rice seedlings to arsenic (As) and heat stress. Two-week-old rice seedlings (both with and without As) were given a 45 °C heat shock for 3 h. While under heat shock, the leafy portion of the seedlings was harvested at regular intervals. Subsequently, the seedlings were kept at room temperature for recovery and sampling continued over 3 h. Total RNA and protein were extracted from the leafy portion of the seedlings and complementary DNA (cDNA) was prepared from total RNA. The cDNA was used as a template for the polymerase chain reaction to identify the transcription level of HSP70. Protein extracted from the seedlings was western-blotted. HSP70 and actin (loading control) antibodies were used to recognize the proteins on the same blot. Our studies reveal that HSP70, a cellular chaperone gene, is over-expressed at the mRNA and protein levels when rice seedlings are exposed to As and heat. The effect is cumulative and increases with the duration of stress for 3 h. During 3 h recovery from heat stress at ambient temperatures for 3 h, the chaperone remains expressed at higher levels in plants pre-exposed to As. Our findings demonstrate a retention of the imprint of previous stress exposure, perhaps through sustained activation of the signalling pathways upstream of over-expression of HSP70. Furthermore, stress-induced HSP70 expression was additive/cumulative for continued exposure to similar or different kinds of stress, indicating that a commonality of signal transduction networks is adopted when plants experience more than one stress.
22476350	Variations in concentrations of herbicide bromobutide (RS)-2-bromo-N-(α,α-dimethylbenzyl)-3,3-dimethylbutyramide, and its metabolite bromobutide-debromo, N-(α,α-dimethylbenzyl)-3,3-dimethylbutyramide were investigated in soils from three paddy fields used for rice farming at 24 weeks after application. The bromobutide concentration was maximum within 24 h after application. That of bromobutide-debromo was maximum within 5-7 days of application. Each gradually decreased to below detection limits at 12-22 weeks after application. Bromobutide was detected up to 76-104 days after application in the paddy soils, whereas bromobutide-debromo was detected up to 125 days after application. The bromobutide composition was higher than 90 % within 6 days of application, decreasing to less than 5 % by 125 days of application. The decrease of bromobutide amount in the soil was inferred as the first-order reaction. The bromobutide half-life was calculated as 12-21 days (16 days mean) during 18-104 days following application.
22476478	Early flooding helps control weeds but reduces seedling establishment in direct-seeded rice (Oryza sativa). When combined with appropriate management practices, the use of genotypes that better tolerate flooding during emergence can enhance crop establishment in flood-prone areas. Management options include seed pre-treatment and we tested the influence of pre-soaking for 24 h prior to sowing or of priming (soaking for 24 or 48 h followed by drying). The effects on seedling establishment after 21-day flooding of pre-soaking seeds for 24 h before sowing and/or of priming seeds were examined together with physiological responses connected with reactive oxygen scavenging. Seeds of four lines with contrasting abilities to tolerate flooding at the germination stage were compared. Seeds were primed using KCl solutions (48 h) or water (24 h) and pre-soaked using water. Lipid peroxidation and activities of reactive oxygen-scavenging enzymes were measured in seeds before sowing. Carbohydrate mobilization in germinating seeds and seedling growth were also monitored at intervals. Seed pre-treatment by pre-soaking or by priming increased survival of flooding and accelerated and improved seedling establishment, especially in tolerant genotypes. Primed seeds had less lipid peroxidation and higher superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities than non-primed seeds. Amylase activities and starch breakdown were also hastened in primed seeds. Survival after flooding was positively correlated with amylase activity but negatively correlated with the extent of lipid peroxidation. Pre-soaking and priming improved seedling establishment in flooded soil, enhanced the capacity to scavenge reactive oxygen species in seeds by increasing SOD and CAT activities, and hastened carbohydrate mobilization. Tolerant genotypes responded better to these treatments, emphasizing the effectiveness of combining genetic tolerance with appropriate seed pre-treatment to improve seedling establishment of rice sown in flooded soils.
22476619	Drought is a major constraint to maintaining yield stability of wheat in rain fed and limited irrigation agro-ecosystems. Genetic improvement for drought tolerance in wheat has been difficult due to quantitative nature of the trait involving multiple genes with variable effects and lack of effective selection strategies employing molecular markers. Here, a framework molecular linkage map was constructed using 173 DNA markers randomly distributed over the 21 wheat chromosomes. Grain yield and other drought-responsive shoot and root traits were phenotyped for 2 years under drought stress and well-watered conditions on a mapping population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between drought-sensitive semidwarf variety "WL711" and drought-tolerant traditional variety "C306". Thirty-seven genomics region were identified for 10 drought-related traits at 18 different chromosomal locations but most of these showed small inconsistent effects. A consistent genomic region associated with drought susceptibility index (qDSI.4B.1) was mapped on the short arm of chromosome 4B, which also controlled grain yield per plant, harvest index, and root biomass under drought. Transcriptome profiling of the parents and two RIL bulks with extreme phenotypes revealed five genes underlying this genomic region that were differentially expressed between the parents as well as the two RIL bulks, suggesting that they are likely candidates for drought tolerance. Syntenic genomic regions of barley, rice, sorghum, and maize genomes were identified that also harbor genes for drought tolerance. Markers tightly linked to this genomic region in combination with other important regions on group 7 chromosomes may be used in marker-assisted breeding for drought tolerance in wheat.
22479570	Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a C4 perennial grass and widely popular as an important bioenergy crop. To accelerate the pace of developing high yielding switchgrass cultivars adapted to diverse environmental niches, the generation of genomic resources for this plant is necessary. The large genome size and polyploid nature of switchgrass makes whole genome sequencing a daunting task even with current technologies. Exploring the transcriptional landscape using next generation sequencing technologies provides a viable alternative to whole genome sequencing in switchgrass. Switchgrass cDNA libraries from germinating seedlings, emerging tillers, flowers, and dormant seeds were sequenced using Roche 454 GS-FLX Titanium technology, generating 980,000 reads with an average read length of 367 bp. De novo assembly generated 243,600 contigs with an average length of 535 bp. Using the foxtail millet genome as a reference greatly improved the assembly and annotation of switchgrass ESTs. Comparative analysis of the 454-derived switchgrass EST reads with other sequenced monocots including Brachypodium, sorghum, rice and maize indicated a 70-80% overlap. RPKM analysis demonstrated unique transcriptional signatures of the four tissues analyzed in this study. More than 24,000 ESTs were identified in the dormant seed library. In silico analysis indicated that there are more than 2000 EST-SSRs in this collection. Expression of several orphan ESTs was confirmed by RT-PCR. We estimate that about 90% of the switchgrass gene space has been covered in this analysis. This study nearly doubles the amount of EST information for switchgrass currently in the public domain. The celerity and economical nature of second-generation sequencing technologies provide an in-depth view of the gene space of complex genomes like switchgrass. Sequence analysis of closely related members of the NAD(+)-malic enzyme type C4 grasses such as the model system Setaria viridis can serve as a viable proxy for the switchgrass genome.
22480283	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play key roles in diverse developmental processes, nutrient homeostasis and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. The biogenesis and regulatory functions of miRNAs have been intensively studied in model angiosperms, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa and Populus trichocarpa. However, global identification of Pinus densata miRNAs has not been reported in previous research. Here, we report the identification of 34 conserved miRNAs belonging to 25 miRNA families from a P. densata mRNA transcriptome database using local BLAST and MIREAP programs. The primary and/or precursor sequences of 29 miRNAs were further confirmed by RT-PCR amplification and subsequent sequencing. The average value of the minimal folding free energy indexes of the 34 miRNA precursors was 0.92. Nineteen (58%) mature miRNAs began with a 5' terminal uridine residue. Analysis of miRNA precursors showed that 19 mature miRNAs were novel members of 14 conserved miRNA families, of which 17 miRNAs were further validated by subcloning and sequencing. Using real-time quantitative RT-PCR, we found that the expression levels of 7 miRNAs were more than 2-fold higher in needles than in stems. In addition, 72 P. densata mRNAs were predicted to be targets of 25 miRNA families. Four target genes, including a nodal modulator 1-like protein gene, two GRAS family transcription factor protein genes and one histone deacetylase gene, were experimentally verified to be the targets of 3 P. densata miRNAs, pde-miR162a, pde-miR171a and pde-miR482a, respectively. This study led to the discovery of 34 conserved miRNAs comprising 25 miRNA families from Pinus densata. These results lay a solid foundation for further studying the regulative roles of miRNAs in the development, growth and responses to environmental stresses in P. densata.
22480534	In order to enhance food production, India has adopted modern agriculture practices and achieved noteworthy success. This achievement was essentially the result of a paradigm shift in agriculture that included high inputs of agrochemicals, water, and widespread practice of monoculture, as well as bureaucratic changes that promoted these changes. There are very few comprehensive analyses of potential adverse health outcomes that may be related to these changes. The objective of this study is to identify health risks associated with modern agricultural practices in the southern Indian state of Karnataka. This study aims to compare high-input and low-input agricultural practices and the consequences for health of people in these communities. The fieldwork was conducted from May to August, 2009 and included a survey carried out in six villages. Data were collected by in-depth personal interviews among 240 households and key informants, field observations, laboratory analyses, and data from secondary sources. The study identified four major visible impacts: occupational hazards, vector borne diseases, changing nutritional status, and inequity in development. In the high-input area, mechanization has resulted in more occurrences of serious accidents and injuries. Ecological changes due to rice cultivation in this area have further augmented mosquito breeding, and there has been a surge in the incidence of Japanese encephalitis and malaria. The traditional coarse cereals (complex carbohydrates, high protein) have been replaced by mill-polished rice (simple carbohydrate, low protein). The prevalence of overweight (BMI>25) has emerged as a new public health challenge, and this is most evident in large-landholding households, especially in the high-input agriculture areas. In all agro-ecological areas, it was observed that women faced a greater risk of both extremes of under-nutrition and being overweight. Output-driven and market-oriented modern agricultural practices have changed the ecology and disease pattern in this area in India, and our survey indicated significant health effects associated with these changes. There is a need for more extensive epidemiological studies in order to know the full impact on diseases and to understand the complex causal relationships.
22480797	Severe acute malnutrition (SAM) arises as a consequence of a sudden period of food shortage and is associated with loss of a person's body fat and wasting of their skeletal muscle. Many of those affected are already undernourished and are often susceptible to disease. Infants and young children are the most vulnerable as they require extra nutrition for growth and development, have comparatively limited energy reserves and depend on others. Undernutrition can have drastic and wide-ranging consequences for the child's development and survival in the short and long term. Despite efforts made to treat SAM through different interventions and programmes, it continues to cause unacceptably high levels of mortality and morbidity. Uncertainty remains as to the most effective methods to treat severe acute malnutrition in young children. To evaluate the effectiveness of interventions to treat infants and children aged < 5 years who have SAM. Eight databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, CAB Abstracts Ovid, Bioline, Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, EconLit EBSCO and The Cochrane Library) were searched to 2010. Bibliographies of included articles and grey literature sources were also searched. The project expert advisory group was asked to identify additional published and unpublished references. Prior to the systematic review, a Delphi process involving international experts prioritised the research questions. Searches were conducted and two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts for eligibility. Inclusion criteria were applied to the full texts of retrieved papers by one reviewer and checked independently by a second. Included studies were mapped to the research questions. Data extraction and quality assessment were undertaken by one reviewer and checked by a second reviewer. Differences in opinion were resolved through discussion at each stage. Studies were synthesised through a narrative review with tabulation of the results. A total of 8954 records were screened, 224 full-text articles were retrieved, and 74 articles (describing 68 studies) met the inclusion criteria and were mapped. No evidence focused on treatment of children with SAM who were human immunodeficiency virus sero-positive, and no good-quality or adequately reported studies assessed treatments for SAM among infants < 6 months old. One randomised controlled trial investigated fluid resuscitation solutions for shock, with none adequately treating shock. Children with acute diarrhoea benefited from the use of hypo-osmolar oral rehydration solution (H-ORS) compared with the standard World Health Organization-oral rehydration solution (WHO-ORS). WHO-ORS was not significantly different from rehydration solution for malnutrition (ReSoMal), but the safety of ReSoMal was uncertain. A rice-based ORS was more beneficial than glucose-based ORSs, and provision of zinc plus a WHO-ORS had a favourable impact on diarrhoea and need for ORS. Comparisons of different diets in children with persistent diarrhoea produced conflicting findings. For treating infection, comparison of amoxicillin with ceftriaxone during inpatient therapy, and routine provision of antibiotics for 7 days versus no antibiotics during outpatient therapy of uncomplicated SAM, found that neither had a significant effect on recovery at the end of follow-up. No evidence mapped to the next three questions on factors that affect sustainability of programmes, long-term survival and readmission rates, the clinical effectiveness of management strategies for treating children with comorbidities such as tuberculosis and Helicobacter pylori infection and the factors that limit the full implementation of treatment programmes. Comparison of treatment for SAM in different settings showed that children receiving inpatient care appear to do as well as those in ambulatory or home settings on anthropometric measures and response time to treatment. Longer-term follow-up showed limited differences between the different settings. The majority of evidence on methods for correcting micronutrient deficiencies considered zinc supplements; however, trials were heterogeneous and a firm conclusion about zinc was not reached. There was limited evidence on either supplementary potassium or nicotinic acid (each produced some benefits), and nucleotides (not associated with benefits). Evidence was identified for four of the five remaining questions, but not assessed because of resource limitation. The systematic review focused on key questions prioritised through a Delphi study and, as a consequence, did not encompass all elements in the management of SAM. In focusing on evidence from controlled studies with the most rigorous designs that were published in the English language, the systematic review may have excluded other forms of evidence. The systematic review identified several limitations in the evidence base for assessing the effectiveness of interventions for treating young children with severe acute malnutrition, including a lack of studies assessing the different interventions; limited details of study methods used; short follow-up post intervention or discharge; and heterogeneity in participants, interventions, settings, and outcome measures affecting generalisability. For many of the most highly ranked questions evidence was lacking or inconclusive. More research is needed on a range of topic areas concerning the treatment of infants and children with SAM. Further research is required on most aspects of the management of SAM in children < 5 years, including intravenous resuscitation regimens for shock, management of subgroups (e.g. infants < 6 months old, infants and children with SAM who are human immunodeficiency virus sero-positive) and on the use of antibiotics.
22480883	The formulations of acaripathogenic fungi to control ticks have been widely studied. The present study evaluated the efficacy of oil-based formulations of Metarhizium anisopliae sensu lato (s.l.), isolate Ma 959, and Beauveria bassiana, isolate Bb 986, on different Rhipicephalus microplus stages, comparing the efficacy between aqueous suspensions and 10, 15 and 20% mineral oil formulations. Twelve groups were formed: one aqueous control group; three mineral oil control groups, at 10, 15 or 20%; two aqueous fungal suspensions of M. anisopliae s.l. or B. bassiana; and three formulations of M. anisopliae (s.l.) or B. bassiana containing 10, 15, and 20% mineral oil. To prepare aqueous suspensions and oily formulations, fungal isolates were cultivated on rice grains in polypropylene bags. The conidial suspensions and formulations had a concentration of 10(8)conidia/mL. Bioassays were repeated twice. After treatment, the following biological parameters of engorged females were evaluated: hatching percentage, egg production index, nutritional index, and percentage of tick control. The following parameters were evaluated in the bioassays with eggs: period of incubation, period of hatch, and hatching percentage. Mortality was evaluated in bioassays with larvae. M. anisopliae s.l. and B. bassiana oil-based formulations were more effective than aqueous suspensions against R. microplus eggs, larvae and engorged females, however, there was no significant difference between the three oil concentrations used. M. anisopliae s.l. and B. bassiana formulated in mineral oil reached 93.69% and 21.67% efficacy, respectively, while M. anisopliae s.l. and B. bassiana aqueous suspensions attained 18.70% and 1.72% efficacy, respectively. M. anisopliae s.l. oil-based formulations caused significant effects in all biological parameters of engorged females while B. bassiana oil-based formulations modified significantly the nutritional index only. Eggs treated with M. anisopliae s.l. and B. bassiana oil-based formulations showed hatching rates that decreased 102.5 and 3.65 times, respectively. In the bioassay with larvae, M. anisopliae s.l. oil-based formulations caused nearly 100% mortality five days after treatment, while larva treated with B. bassiana oil-based formulations reached 100% mortality at day 20 after treatment. Larva from oil-based control groups showed mortality at day 15 after treatment, which indicated a possible toxic effect of the oil for this R. microplus stage. The results showed that the fungal mineral oil formulations tested were more effective than the aqueous suspension. Oil-based formulations at 10, 15 and 20% enhanced the activity of M. anisopliae s.l. Ma 959, and B. bassiana Bb 986, isolates against R. microplus eggs, larvae, and engorged females tick. Mineral oil was effective as an adjuvant in formulations of M. anisopliae s.l., Ma 959, and B. bassiana, Bb 986, for the control of R. microplus under laboratory conditions.
22480941	To investigate the feasibility of using black carbon (BC) in the control of hydrophobic organic contaminants (HOCs) in sediment, we added BCs from various sources (rice straw charcoal (RC), fly ash (FC) and soot (SC)) to sediment to create different BC-inclusive sediments and studied the release of pentachlorophenol (PCP) in the sediments under different condition. Different pH values had no obvious effect on the release of PCP in BC-inclusive sediment, but solid/liquid ratio, temperature, salinity and dissolved organic matter (DOM) content had significant influences on the release of PCP in all sediments except the RC-inclusive sediment. Adding 2% RC to sediment resulted in a 90% decrease in PCP release, which was a greater decrease than observed with FC- and SC-inclusive sediments. Therefore, from the standpoint of HOC release, the application of RC is feasible for organic pollution control in the water environment.
22481119	Seedling vigor is among the major determinants of stable stand establishment in direct-seeded rice (Oryza sativa L.) in temperate regions. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) for seedling vigor were identified using 250 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between two japonica rice cultivars Kakehashi and Dunghan Shali. Seedling heights measured at 14 days after sowing were 20.3 and 29.4 cm for Kakehashi and Dunghan Shali, respectively. For the RILs, the height ranged from 14.1 to 31.7 cm. Four putative QTLs associated with seedling height were detected. qPHS3-2, the major QTL that was located on the long arm of chromosome 3, accounted for 26.2 % of the phenotypic variance. Using progeny of the near isogenic lines (NILs) produced by the backcross introduction of a chromosome segment carrying this major QTL into an elite cultivar Iwatekko, we fine-mapped qPHS3-2 to a 81-kb interval between two markers, ID_CAPS_01 and RM16227. Within this mapped region, we identified the gene OsGA20ox1, which is related to gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis. The relative expression levels of GA20ox1 in seedlings of Dunghan Shali and NILs were higher than that of Iwatekko. Concomitantly, the amount of endogenous active GA was higher in Dunghan Shali and the NILs compared to the level detected in Iwatekko. These results indicate that OsGA20ox1 is a strong candidate gene for major QTL controlling seedling vigor in rice.
22481309	The plant growth-promoting proteobacterium Azospirillum brasilense enhances growth of many economically important crops, such as wheat, maize, and rice. The sequencing and annotation of the 1.59-Mbp replicon of A. brasilense CBG497, a strain isolated from a maize rhizosphere grown on an alkaline soil in the northeast of Mexico, revealed a GC content of 68.7 % and the presence of 1,430 potential protein-encoding genes, 1,147 of them classified into clusters of orthologous groups categories, and 16 tRNA genes representing 11 tRNA species. The presence of sixty-two genes representatives of the minimal gene set and chromid core genes suggests its importance in bacterial survival. The phaAB → G operon, reported as involved in the bacterial adaptation to alkaline pH in the presence of K(+), was also found on this replicon and detected in several Azospirillum strains. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that it was laterally acquired. We were not able to show its inference on the adaptation to basic pH, giving a hint about the presence of an alternative system for adaptation to alkaline pH.
22482475	Etoposide (epipodophyllotoxin) is a chemical commonly used as an anti-cancer drug which inhibits DNA synthesis by blocking topoisomerase II activity. Previous studies in animal cells have demonstrated that etoposide constitutes a genotoxic stress which may induce genomic instability including mobilization of normally quiescent transposable elements (TEs). However, it remained unknown whether similar genetically mutagenic effects could be imposed by etoposide in plant cells. Also, no information is available with regard to whether the drug may cause a perturbation of epigenetic stability in any organism. To investigate whether etoposide could generate genetic and/or epigenetic instability in plant cells, we applied etoposide to germinating seeds of six cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes including both subspecies, japonica and indica. Based on the methylation-sensitive gel-blotting results, epigenetic changes in DNA methylation of three TEs (Tos17, Osr23 and Osr36) and two protein-encoding genes (Homeobox and CDPK-related genes) were detected in the etoposide-treated plants (S0 generation) in four of the six studied japonica cultivars, Nipponbare, RZ1, RZ2, and RZ35, but not in the rest japonica cultivar (Matsumae) and the indica cultivar (93-11). DNA methylation changes in the etoposide-treated S0 rice plants were validated by bisulfite sequencing at both of two analyzed loci (Tos17 and Osr36). Transpositional activity was tested for eight TEs endogenous to the rice genome in both the S0 plants and their selfed progenies (S1 and S2) of one of the cultivars, RZ1, which manifested heritable phenotypic variations. Results indicated that no transposition occurred in the etoposide-treated S0 plants for any of the TEs. Nonetheless, a MITE transposon, mPing, showed rampant mobilization in the S1 and S2 progenies descended from the drug-treated S0 plants. Our results demonstrate that etoposide imposes a similar genotoxic stress on plant cells as it does on animal and human cells, which may induce transgenerational genomic instability by instigating transpositional activation of otherwise dormant TEs. In addition, we show for the first time that etoposide may induce epigenetic instability in the form of altered DNA methylation patterns in eukaryotes. However, penetrance of the genotoxic effects of etoposide on plant cells, as being reflected as genetic and epigenetic instability, appears to be in a strictly genotype- and/or generation-dependent manner.
22483442	Rac-metolachlor, a widely used chloracetanilide herbicide, is now being replaced by S-metolachlor in many countries. The enantioselective effects of rac- and S-metolachlor on root growth of maize and rice was studied in hydroponics. Visible morphological changes in root growth were observed after treatment with rac- or S-metolachlor. The main root and lateral roots were shorter in length, and the number of lateral roots was reduced. The half inhibition (IC(50,5d)) values for root length of rac- and S-metolachlor were 18.86 and 10.61 μM, respectively, for maize, and 7.33 and 5.35 μM, respectively, for rice. The root system activity after treatment with rac- or S-metolachlor was lower than that of the control, while the root membrane permeability was higher. The activities of superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase in the roots were lower after rac- or S-metolachlor treatment compared to those of the control, while the malondialdehyde content was higher. After rice was treated with 3.1 μM rac- or S-metolachlor, the cell wall separated from the cell membrane, and some destruction of nuclei and organelles was observed. The entire cell was destroyed after treatment with 12.4 μM rac- or S-metolachlor. The results showed that S-metolachlor has stronger effects than rac-metolachlor on crop roots.
22483849	Understanding the Fe deficiency response in plants is necessary for improving both plant health and the human diet, which relies on Fe from plant sources. In this review we focus on the regulation of the two major strategies for iron acquisition in plants, exemplified by the model plants Arabidopsis and rice. Critical to our knowledge of Fe homeostasis in plants is determining how Fe is sensed and how this signal is transmitted and integrated into a response. We will explore the evidence for an Fe sensor in plants and summarize the recent findings on hormones and signaling molecules which contribute to the Fe deficiency response. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Cell Biology of Metals.
22484957	The processing suitability as a material for rice crackers was characterized in the present study, based on physicochemical measurements and sensory testing of high-quality premium rice, low-amylose rice, Japonica-Indica hybrid rice, and red rice as the rice cultivar samples. Puffed rice crackers were prepared and the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the rice grains and the quality of the resulting products was investigated. It was possible to estimate the physical properties of a rice cracker by using multiple-regression analysis based on the chemical components, pasting properties and physical properties of the constituent rice. A formula for estimating the amylose content of the constituent rice was developed from the results of physicochemical measurements of the rice crackers. We assayed the quality of commercial rice crackers and examined the deterioration during the storage by measuring the physicochemical properties. The hardness and fat acidity of crackers increased markedly during storage for 20 d at 35 °C. The novel method of a one-bite test with a Tensipresser was useful to assay the quality of a rice cracker and made it possible to evaluate the quality deterioration of the rice cracker during storage.
22486829	In plant cells, how integral plasma membrane (PM) proteins are degraded in a cargo ubiquitination-independent manner remains elusive. Here, we studied the degradative pathway of two plant PM proteins: AtLRR84A, a type I integral membrane protein belonging to the leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase protein family, and OsSCAMP1 (rice secretory carrier membrane protein 1), a tetraspan transmembrane protein located on the PM and trans-Golgi network (TGN) or early endosome (EE). Using wortmannin and ARA7(Q69L) mutant that could enlarge the multivesicular body (MVB) or prevacuolar compartment (PVC) as tools, we demonstrated that, when expressed as green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions in tobacco BY-2 or Arabidopsis protoplasts, both AtLRR84A and OsSCAMP1 were degraded in the lytic vacuole via the internal vesicles of MVB/PVC in a cargo ubiquitination-independent manner. Such MVB/PVC-mediated vacuolar degradation of PM proteins was further supported by immunocytochemical electron microscopy (immunoEM) study showing the labeling of the fusions on the internal vesicles of the PVC/MVB. Thus, cargo ubiquitination-independent and PVC-mediated degradation of PM proteins in the vacuole is functionally operated in plant cells.
22487175	The plant growth retardant uniconazole (UNI), which has been used as an effective inhibitor of ent-kaurene oxidase (CYP701A) involved in gibberellin biosynthesis, also strongly inhibits ABA 8'-hydroxylase (CYP707A), a key enzyme in abscisic acid catabolism. Azole P450 inhibitors bind to the P450 active site by both coordinating to the heme-iron atom via an sp(2) nitrogen and interacting with surrounding protein residues through a lipophilic region. We hypothesized that poor selectivity of UNI may result from its small molecular size and flexible conformation that allows it to fit into active sites differing in size and shape. To find a selective inhibitor of CYP701A based on this hypothesis, we examined inhibitory activities of three types of UNI analogues, which were conformationally constrained, enlarged in width, and enlarged in length, against recombinant rice CYP701A6 and Arabidopsis CYP707A3. Conformationally restricted analogues, UFAP2 and UFAP2N, inhibited CYP701A6 as strongly as UNI, whereas it inhibited CYP707A3 less than UNI.
22488070	Concentrations of total and inorganic arsenic were determined in 180 samples of polished and brown rice of three rice types, namely white, jasmine, and sticky, and 44 samples of rice bran from these three rice types purchased in Thailand. Concentrations (expressed in nanograms per gram) of inorganic arsenic in polished white, jasmine, and sticky rice were 68.3 ± 17.6 (with a range of 45.0 to 106), 68.4 ± 15.6 (41.7 to 101), and 75.9 ± 24.8 (43.5 to 156), respectively, while those in the three brown rice samples were 124 ± 34.4 (74.5 to 193), 120 ± 31.6 (73.1 to 174), and 131 ± 35.6 (78.0 to 188), respectively. Inorganic arsenic concentrations (expressed in nanograms per gram) in rice bran produced from the three rice types were 633 ± 182 (375 to 919), 599 ± 112 (447 to 824), and 673 ± 195 (436 to 1,071), respectively. Rice bran contained concentrations of total and inorganic arsenic approximately seven and nine times higher, respectively, than those found in the corresponding polished rice. The levels of inorganic arsenic in the three rice types of both polished and brown rice were within the only published regulatory limit of 200 ng/g.
22488926	Massive rodent population outbreaks occurred in the Ayeyarwady Delta, Myanmar, in July 2009, 15 months after cyclone Nargis. Satellite imagery with high temporal frequency was used to identify the area and planting time of rice at a landscape scale of > 80 000 ha, and household surveys of farmers were conducted to validate the mapping and to quantify losses. Farmers did not have problems with rodents in 2007-2008; rodents were the principal problem in the 2009 summer and monsoon rice crops. The landscape scale modeling indicated that high rodent densities in 2009 were associated with extended or delayed cropping and harvesting time because of asynchronous planting, and with an increase in the amount of abandoned agricultural land after cyclone Nargis. Asynchronous planting following cyclone Nargis provided abundant high-quality food for an extended period, which in turn led to a lengthened breeding season of rodents. The outbreak of populations 15 months after cyclone Nargis is consistent with the time it would take rodent populations to build from a low base after a major flooding event. To prevent rodent outbreaks effectively, synchronous planting, use of rice varieties with a similar maturation date and good field sanitation are important actions for subsequent rice crops after a major weather event.
22489119	Interest in edible beans as nutraceuticals is increasing. In the present study, the individual phenolic acids, the total phenolic content (TPC), the total flavonoid content (TFC), and the antioxidant and antidiabetic potential of 13 varieties of rice beans from China were investigated. Eight phenolic compounds (catechin, epicatechin, p-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, vitexin, isovitexin, sinapic acid, quercetin) were analyzed on an ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) mass spectrometry (MS) system. The rice bean varieties had significant differences in total phenolic compounds (ranging from 123.09 ± 10.35 to 843.75 ± 30.15 μg/g), in TPC (ranging from 3.27 ± 0.04 to 6.43 ± 0.25 mg gallic acid equivalents (GAE)/g), in TFC (ranging from 55.95 ± 11.16 to 320.39 ± 31.77 mg catechin (CE)/g), in antioxidant activity (ranging from 39.87 ± 1.37 to 46.40 ± 2.18 μM·TE/g), in α-glucosidase inhibition activity (ranging from 44.32 ± 2.12 to 68.71 ± 2.19) and in advanced glycation end products formation inhibition activity (ranging from 34.11 ± 0.59 to 75.75 ± 0.33). This study is the first report on phytochemistry and biological activities in rice beans.
22489483	A pot experiment was conducted to study the effects of combined application of organic and inorganic fertilizers on the nitrogen uptake by rice and the nitrogen supply by soil in a wheat-rice rotation system, and approach the mechanisms for the increased fertilizer nitrogen use efficiency of rice under the combined fertilization from the viewpoint of microbiology. Comparing with applying inorganic fertilizers, combined application of organic and inorganic fertilizers decreased the soil microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen and soil mineral nitrogen contents before tillering stage, but increased them significantly from heading to filling stage. Under the combined fertilization, the dynamics of soil nitrogen supply matched best the dynamics of rice nitrogen uptake and utilization, which promoted the nitrogen accumulation in rice plant and the increase of rice yield and biomass, and increased the fertilizer nitrogen use efficiency of rice significantly. Combined application of inorganic and organic fertilizers also promoted the propagation of soil microbes, and consequently, more mineral nitrogen in soil was immobilized by the microbes at rice early growth stage, and the immobilized nitrogen was gradually released at the mid and late growth stages of rice, being able to better satisfy the nitrogen demand of rice in its various growth and development stages.
22489485	A two-year field experiment (2009 and 2010) was conducted to evaluate the effects of three transgenic Bt rice lines (KMD, HH1, and BtSY63) and their non-Bt lines (XSD, MH63, and SY63) on soil dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and nitrogen (DON) and microbiological properties. All the measured indices changed significantly with sampling time. Comparing with their corresponding non-Bt lines, the test transgenic Bt lines had little effects on the soil DOC, DON, and microbial biomass nitrogen (MBN). The transgenic Bt lines had significant effects on the soil microbial biomass carbon (MBC), basal respiration (BR), and microbial metabolic quotient (qCO2) in certain periods of time in the first year, but no effects in the second year. Among the soils planted with the three non-Bt rice lines, no difference was observed in the DOC, DON, and microbiological properties, whereas in the soil planted with BtSY63, the MBC and BR were significantly higher, but the qCO2 was significantly lower, as compared with those in the soils planted with KMD and HH1. In sum, two years' planting transgenic Bt rice had little effects on the soil DOC, DON, and microbiological properties, but the differences of soil microbiological properties induced by the planting of different transgenic Bt rice lines were larger than those induced by the planting of different non-Bt lines, implying that long term monitoring would help to reveal the effects of transgenic Bt rice on the structure and function of soil ecosystem.
22489497	Raising duck in paddy rice field is an evolution of Chinese traditional agriculture. In May-October 2010, a field experiment was conducted in a double cropping rice region of Hunan Province, South-central China to study the nitrogen (N) cycling in rice-duck mutual ecosystem during early rice and late rice growth periods, taking a conventional paddy rice field as the control. Input-output analysis method was adopted. The N output in the early rice-duck mutual ecosystem was 239.5 kg x hm(-2), in which, 12.77 kg x hm(-2) were from ducks, and the N output in the late rice-duck mutual ecosystem was 338.7 kg x hm(-2), in which, 23.35 kg x hm(-2) were from ducks. At the present N input level, there existed soil N deficit during the growth seasons of both early rice and late rice. The N input from duck sub-system was mainly from the feed N, and the cycling rate of the duck feces N recycled within the system was 2.5% during early rice growth season and 3.5% during late rice growth season. After late rice harvested, the soil N sequestration was 178.6 kg x hm(-2).
22489549	An ultrasensitive method based on Surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) has been developed to determine content of a pesticide which is tricyclazole in paddy rice using sliver colloid as a substrate and pyridine as an internal standard. The peaks at 424 and 1035 cm(-1) in a SERS spectrum were selected as analytic and internal peaks, respectively, and their intensity ratio I(t)/I(p) was used to calculate the regression concentration of tricyclazole. The correlation between I(t)/I(p) and concentration showed significant linear relationship with a correlation coefficient of R(2)= 0.995 in a concentration range of 0.05 to 0.70 mg/L and the tricyclazole solution can be detected to be low as 0.002 mg/L by SERS. The method was applied to determine tricyclazole contents of 3 real rice samples with a standard addition method in order to eliminate interference of matrix. The errors of SERS measurements for the 3 samples were 0.0008 to 0.0246, 0.0013 to 0.0028, and 0.0129 to 0.0304 mg/kg, respectively, compared with the results obtained by high performance liquid chromatography method. This also showed a good reproducibility with low values of relative standard deviation (n= 3) for the 3 samples ranged from 3.63% to 4.64%.
22489666	Chloroplast protrusions (CPs) are often observed under environmental stresses, but their role has not been elucidated. The formation of CPs was observed in the leaf of rice plants treated with 75 mm NaCl for 14 d. Some CPs were almost separated from the main chloroplast body. In some CPs, inner membrane structures and crystalline inclusions were included. Similar structures surrounded by double membranes were observed in the cytoplasm and vacuole. Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) was detected in CPs and the similar structures in the cytoplasm and vacuole. These results suggest that CP is one of the pathways of Rubisco exclusion from chloroplasts into the cytoplasm under salinity, and the exclusions could be transported to vacuole for their degradation.
22489805	Polypill has been a hot issue since it was first advanced in 2003. This new concept immediately spurred a worldwide discussion. Xuezhikang is a partially purified extract of fermented red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus). It is composed of 13 kinds of natural statins, unsaturated fatty acids, ergosterol, amino acids, flavonoids, alkaloid, trace element, and other substances, and thus could be regarded as a natural lipid-lowering polypill. Interestingly, Xuezhikang in the China Coronary Secondary Prevention Study trial lowered lipid levels less as compared with provastatin in the Cholesterol and Recurrent Events trial, but seemed to gain more benefit in reducing the cardiovascular events and the risk of death from cancer. In recent years, Xuezhikang has been further demonstrated to have additional health benefits and thus raised great interest. This article reviews the clinical benefits of Xuezhikang and the potential multicomponent synergetic mechanism. The authors hold that polypill is anticipated to be a more effective and feasible way to treat complicated diseases.
22490981	The 20mM cationic niosomes composed of Tween61/cholesterol/CTAB at 1:1:0.5M ratio which gave the best physical appearance, particle size, zeta potential and in vitro cytotoxicity were selected from six cationic niosomes prepared from various cationic lipids. The selected cationic niosomes were loaded with the semi-purified fraction 3 of Oryza sativa (OSF3) which gave the highest in vitro 5α-reductase inhibition activity. The physicochemical characteristics as well as transfollicular penetration through porcine skin by Franz diffusion cells of gel OSF3 niosomes, OSF3 niosomes, gel OSF3 and OSF3 solution were investigated. Gel containing niosomes loaded with OSF3 exhibited physical stability with 77.68% of gamma-linolenic acid, 85.34% of linoleic acid and 89.47% of oleic acid remaining for 3 months at 25 °C. In the skin, the OSF3 niosomes (120.27 ng/cm(2)) and gel OSF3 niosomes (118.17 ng/cm(2)) showed the highest cumulative amounts of the total unsaturated fatty acids (gamma-linolenic acid, linoleic acid and oleic acid) in comparing to those from the gel OSF3 (15.34 ng/cm(2)) and OSF3 solution (20.31 ng/cm(2)) of about 8 and 6 times, respectively. In the receiver compartment, the gel OSF3 niosomes (6.27 ng/cm(2)) exhibited lower cumulative amount of the total unsaturated fatty acids than that of the OSF3 niosomes (11.20 ng/cm(2)) of about 2 times. This study has suggested that gel containing OSF3 loaded in niosomes appeared to be the suitable system for topical anti-androgenic alopecia application because of the convenient use and high transfollicular penetration in the skin, but not in the receiving compartment with the advantage of low systemic effect.
22492001	Rice stripe virus (RSV) infects rice and is transmitted in a propagative manner by the small brown planthopper. How RSV enters an insect cell to initiate the infection cycle is poorly understood. Sequence analysis revealed that the RSV NSvc2 protein was similar to the membrane glycoproteins of several members in the family Bunyaviridae and might induce cell membrane fusion. To conveniently study the membrane fusion activity of NSvc2, we constructed cell surface display vectors for expressing Nsvc2 on the insect cell surface as the membrane glycoproteins of the enveloped viruses. Our results showed that NSvc2 was successfully expressed and displayed on the surface of insect Sf9 cells. When induced by low pH, the membrane fusion was not observed in the cells that expressed NSvc2. Additionally, the membrane fusion was also not detected when co-expressing Nsvc2 and the viral capsid protein on insect cell surface. Thus, RSV NSvc2 is probably different from the phlebovirus counterparts, which could suggest different functions. RSV might enter insect cells other than by fusion with plasma or endosome membrane.
22492232	Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic phenomenon found in mammals and flowering plants that leads to differential allelic gene expression depending on their parent of origin. In plants, genomic imprinting primarily occurs in the endosperm, and it is associated with seed development. The imprinted expression is driven by the epigenetic memory programmed in each lineage of female and male germlines. Several imprinted genes have been identified based on genetic studies in maize and Arabidopsis. Recent advances in genome-wide analyses made it possible to identify multiple imprinted genes including many nuclear proteins, such as transcription factors and chromatin-related proteins in different plant species. Some of these genes are conserved in Arabidopsis, rice and maize, but many are species specific. Genome-wide analyses also clarified the regulation mechanism of imprinted genes orchestrated by DNA methylation and histone methylation marks. Additionally, genetic analyses using Arabidopsis revealed new regulatory factors of DNA demethylation and imprinting and shed light on the more precise mechanisms.
22492233	Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn causes sheath blight disease in rice, and genetic resistance against it is the most desirable characteristic. Current improvement efforts are based on analysis of polygenic quantitative trait loci (QTLs), but interpretation is limited by the lack of information on the changes in metabolic pathways. Our previous studies linked activation of the glycolytic pathway to enhanced generation of lignin in the phenylpropanoid pathway. The current studies investigated the regulation of glycolysis by examining the time course of changes in enzymatic activities and metabolite contents. The results showed that the activities of all glycolytic enzymes as well as fructose-6-phosphate (F-6-P), fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (F-1,6-P(2)), dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (GAP), 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PG), phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) and pyruvate contents increased. These results combined with our previous findings that the expression of phosphoglucomutase (PGM), triosephosphate isomerase (TPI), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), enolase and pyruvate kinase (PK) increased after infection suggested that the additional establishment of glycolysis in the cytosol compartment occurred after infection. Further evidence for this was our recent findings that the increase in expression of the 6-phosphofructokinase (PFK) plastid isozyme Os06g05860 was accompanied by an increase in expression of three cytosolic PFK isozymes, i.e. Os01g09570, Os01g53680 and Os04g39420, as well as pyrophosphate-dependent phosphofrucokinase (PFP) isozymes Os08g25720 (α-subunit) and Os06g13810 (β-subunit) in infected rice plants of the resistant line. The results also showed that the reactions catalysed by PFK/PFP, aldolase, GAPDH + phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) and PK in leaf sheaths of R. solani-infected rice plants were non-equilibrium reactions in vivo. This study showed that PGM, phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI), TPI and phosphoglycerate mutase (PGmu) + enolase could be regulated through coarse control whereas, PFK/PFP, aldolase, GAPDH + PGK and PK could be regulated through coarse and fine controls simultaneously.
2249254	The junctions JSA and JSB between the two inverted repeat regions IRA and IRB and the small single copy region of the maize chloroplast DNA have been identified by DNA sequencing. The JSA junction coincides with the initiation codon of the ndhH gene which is encoded by the adjacent region of the small single copy region. A comparison with the plastomes of rice, rye, tobacco and liverwort shows that linkage of this junction with the ndhH gene is specific for gramminean species. The amino acid sequences deduced from the ndhH genes show conserved histidine and cysteine residues which are likely to form a metal-binding domain.
22492812	Nucleotide landscapes, which are the way base composition is distributed along a genome, strongly vary among species. The underlying causes of these variations have been much debated. Though mutational bias and selection were initially invoked, GC-biased gene conversion (gBGC), a recombination-associated process favoring the G and C over A and T bases, is increasingly recognized as a major factor. As opposed to vertebrates, evolution of GC content is less well known in plants. Most studies have focused on the GC-poor and homogeneous Arabidopsis thaliana genome and the much more GC-rich and heterogeneous rice (Oryza sativa) genome and have often been generalized as a dicot/monocot dichotomy. This vision is clearly phylogenetically biased and does not allow understanding the mechanisms involved in GC content evolution in plants. To tackle these issues, we used EST data from more than 200 species and provided the most comprehensive description of gene GC content across the seed plant phylogeny so far available. As opposed to the classically assumed dicot/monocot dichotomy, we found continuous variations in GC content from the probably ancestral GC-poor and homogeneous genomes to the more derived GC-rich and highly heterogeneous ones, with several independent enrichment episodes. Our results suggest that gBGC could play a significant role in the evolution of GC content in plant genomes.
22493204	Members of the order Methanocellales play a key role in methane emissions in paddy fields. Because of their slow growth and fastidious culture conditions, pure cultures are difficult to isolate and have been unavailable until recently. Here we report the complete genome sequence of a novel isolate in this group, Methanocella conradii strain HZ254.
22493492	Sakuranetin, the major flavonoid phytoalexin in rice, is induced by ultraviolet (UV) irradiation, CuCl(2) treatment, jasmonic acid treatment, and infection by phytopathogens. It was recently demonstrated that sakuranetin has anti-inflammatory activity, anti-mutagenic activity, anti-pathogenic activities against Helicobacter pylori, Leishmania, and Trypanosoma and contributes to the maintenance of glucose homeostasis in animals. Thus, sakuranetin is a useful compound as a plant antibiotic and a potential pharmaceutical agent. Sakuranetin is biosynthesized from naringenin by naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase (NOMT). In previous research, rice NOMT (OsNOMT) was purified to apparent homogeneity from UV-treated wild-type rice leaves, but the purified protein, named OsCOMT1, exhibited caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity and not NOMT activity. In this study, we found that OsCOMT1 does not contribute to sakuranetin production in rice in vivo, and we purified OsNOMT using the oscomt1 mutant. A crude protein preparation from UV-treated oscomt1 leaves was subjected to three sequential purification steps, resulting in a 400-fold purification from the crude enzyme preparation. Using SDS-PAGE, the purest enzyme preparation showed a minor band at an apparent molecular mass of 40 kDa. Two O-methyltransferase-like proteins, encoded by Os04g0175900 and Os12g0240900, were identified from the 40-kDa band by MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis. Recombinant Os12g0240900 protein showed NOMT activity, but the recombinant Os04g0175900 protein did not. Os12g0240900 expression was induced by jasmonic acid treatment in rice leaves prior to sakuranetin accumulation, and the Os12g0240900 protein showed reasonable kinetic properties to OsNOMT. On the basis of these results, we conclude that Os12g0240900 encodes an OsNOMT.
22494411	To understand the impact of water stress on the greening process, water stress was applied to 6-day-old etiolated seedlings of a drought-sensitive cultivar of rice (Oryza sativa), Pusa Basmati-1 by immersing their roots in 40 mm polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000 (-0.69 MPa) or 50 mm PEG 6000 (-1.03 MPa) dissolved in half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS)-nutrient-solution, 16 h prior to transfer to cool-white-fluorescent + incandescent light. Chlorophyll (Chl) accumulation substantially declined in developing water-stressed seedlings. Reduced Chl synthesis was due to decreased accumulation of chlorophyll biosynthetic intermediates, that is, glutamate-1-semialdehyde (GSA), 5-aminolevulinic acid, Mg-protoporphyrin IX monomethylester and protochlorophyllide. Although 5-aminolevulinic acid synthesis decreased, the gene expression and protein abundance of the enzyme responsible for its synthesis, GSA aminotransferase, increased, suggesting its crucial role in the greening process in stressful environment. The biochemical activities of Chl biosynthetic enzymes, that is, 5-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase, porphobilinogen deaminase, coproporphyrinogen III oxidase, porphyrinogen IX oxidase, Mg-chelatase and protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase, were down-regulated due to their reduced protein abundance/gene expression in water-stressed seedlings. Down-regulation of protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase resulted in impaired Shibata shift. Our results demonstrate that reduced synthesis of early intermediates, that is, GSA and 5-aminolevulinic acid, could modulate the gene expression of later enzymes of Chl biosynthesis pathway.
22494443	This study identifies a new fungal strain, Lentinus sp., that can produce extracellular forms of laccases with an activity of approximately 58 300 U/L. A purified laccase (designated lcc3) was identified by LC-ESI MS/MS as an N-linkage glycosylated protein. The isolated lcc3 cDNA is composed of 1563 bp encoding for a polypeptide of 521 amino acid residues with 4 putative Cu binding regions. Kinetic analyses revealed that the specific activity, k(cat), K(m), and k(cat)/K(m) of lcc3 at pH 2.5 and 70 °C with 2,2'-azino-bis-(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) used as a substrate was 2047 U mg(-1), 2017 s(-1), 8.4 μM, and 240 s(-1) μM(-1), respectively. Lcc3 is stable at pH 6.0-10.0 and has a midpoint temperature (T(m)) of 77.1 °C. We observed 97% decolorization efficiency on Acid Blue 80, 88% on RBBR, and 61% on Acid Red 37 by lcc3. Structural modeling analysis showed that five, four, and three hydrogen bonds can be formed between Acid Blue 80 and Arg(178), Arg(182), or Asn(358); between RBBR and His(132), Ser(134), or Asp(482); and between Acid Red 37 and Arg(178), respectively. Notably, Lentinus lcc3 efficiently reversed the toxicity of anthraquinone and azo dyes on rice seed germination and decolorized industrial textile effluent, suggesting the enzyme may be valuable for bioremediation.
22494488	Around the world, beans and rice are commonly consumed together as a meal. With type 2 diabetes increasing, the effect of this traditional diet pattern on glycemic response has not been studied fully. We evaluated the glycemic response of bean and rice traditional meals compared to rice alone in adults with type 2 diabetes. Seventeen men and women with type 2 diabetes controlled by metformin (n = 14) or diet/exercise (n = 3) aged 35-70 years participated in the randomized 4 × 4 crossover trial. The white long grain rice control, pinto beans/rice, black beans/rice, red kidney beans/rice test meals, matched for 50 grams of available carbohydrate, were consumed at breakfast after a 12 hour fast. Capillary blood glucose concentrations at baseline and at 30 minute intervals up to 180 minutes postprandial were collected. MANOVA for repeated measures established glucose differences between treatments. Paired t tests identified differences between bean types and the rice control following a significant MANOVA. Postprandial net glucose values were significantly lower for the three bean/rice treatments in contrast to the rice control at 90, 120 and 150 minutes. Incremental area under the curve values were significantly lower for the pinto and black bean/rice meals compared to rice alone, but not for kidney beans. Pinto, dark red kidney and black beans with rice attenuate the glycemic response compared to rice alone. Promotion of traditional foods may provide non-pharmaceutical management of type 2 diabetes and improve dietary adherence with cultural groups.
22494575	The main objective of this work was to remove inhibitors and concentrate sugars in hydrolysates obtained from dilute acid-treated rice straw. The Donnan steric pore flow model (DSPM) was applied for membrane characterization and it captured the membrane transport adequately. The polyamide and polyethylene sulfate nanofiltration membranes of 150 Da molecular weight cut-off showed a separation factor of 3 for acetic acid over glucose and xylose and 7 over cellobiose for a simulated mixture at the optimum pH of 3. A separation factor of 3 was also found for the inhibitors hydroxymethyl furfural, ferulic and vanilic acids over sugars. The concentration of rice straw acid hydrolysate by a volume concentration ratio of 4 increased the concentrations of xylose, glucose, arabinose, cellobiose and inhibitor by 100%, 104%, 93%, 151% and 3%, respectively which indicates the membrane can be used for separating the inhibitors from acid-pretreated rice straw hydrolysate while simultaneously concentrating sugars.
22496455
22496604	The purpose of this study was to produce microbial oil from Yarrowia lipolytica Po1g grown in defatted rice bran hydrolysate. After removing oil from rice bran by Soxhlet extraction, the bran is subjected to acid hydrolysis with various sulfuric acid concentrations (1-4% v/v), reaction times (1-8 h), and reaction temperatures (60-120°C). The optimal conditions for maximum total sugar production from the hydrolysate were found to be 3% sulfuric acid at 90°C for 6 h. Glucose was the predominant sugar (43.20 ± 0.28 g/L) followed by xylose (4.93 ± 0.03 g/L) and arabinose (2.09 ± 0.01 g/L). The hydrolysate was subsequently detoxified by neutralization to reduce the amount of inhibitors such as 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and furfural to increase its potential as a medium for culturing Y. lipolytica Po1g. Dry cell mass and lipid content of Y. lipolytica Po1g grown in detoxified defatted rice bran hydrolysate (DRBH) under optimum conditions were 10.75 g/L and 48.02%, respectively.
22497619	The results of an experiment to study the occurrence and distribution of pesticide residues during rice cropping and processing are reported. Four herbicides, nine fungicides, and two insecticides (azoxystrobin, byspiribac-sodium, carbendazim, clomazone, difenoconazole, epoxiconazole, isoprothiolane, kresoxim-methyl, propanil, quinclorac, tebuconazole, thiamethoxam, tricyclazole, trifloxystrobin, λ-cyhalotrin) were applied to an isolated rice-crop plot under controlled conditions, during the 2009-2010 cropping season in Uruguay. Paddy rice was harvested and industrially processed to brown rice, white rice, and rice bran, which were analyzed for pesticide residues using the original QuEChERS methodology and its citrate variation by LC-MS/MS and GC-MS. The distribution of pesticide residues was uneven among the different matrices. Ten different pesticide residues were found in paddy rice, seven in brown rice, and eight in rice bran. The highest concentrations were detected in paddy rice. These results provide information regarding the fate of pesticides in the rice food chain and its safety for consumers.
22499172	In animals, major classes of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) possess a Dbl (diffuse B-cell lymphoma)- homology (DH) domain that functions as a GEF-catalytic domain. However, no GEFs with the DH domain had been identified in plants. Recently, we found that the rice homolog of human SWAP70, Oryza sative (Os) SWAP70, containing the DH domain, exhibited GEF activity toward the rice Rho GTPase OsRac1, and regulates chitin-induced production of reactive oxygen species and defense gene expression in rice. (1) Arabidopsis contains a single SWAP70 gene. A T-DNA insertion mutant of Arabidopsis SWAP70 was morphologically wild type. Measurement of in planta growth of Pseudomonas syringae DC3000 hrcC, a mutant incapable of type III effector delivery, revealed enhanced growth of the pathogen in the atswap70 mutant, indicating that AtSWAP70 is required for PAMP-triggered immunity. In addition, the atswap70 mutation reduced the RPM1-mediated hypersensitive response. These results suggested that AtSWAP70 plays a role in both PAMP- and effector-triggered immunity in Arabidopsis.
22499179	The deficient mutant for the rice heterotrimeric G protein α subunit gene (RGA1), d1, showed dwarfism and set small seed due to a reduced cell number. Mutants for the rice heterotrimeric G protein β subunit gene (RGB1) have not been isolated. To determine the functions of RGB1, transgenic rice plants with suppressed expression of RGB1 were studied using the RNAi method. RGB1 knock-down lines showed browning of the lamina joint regions and nodes and reduced fertility, but these abnormality were not observed in d1. Transgenic plants in which the G protein β subunit was greatly decreased were not obtained, suggesting that the complete suppression of RGB1 mRNA may be lethal. In contrast, the d1 mutants, with complete loss of the G protein α subunit, were fertile and half the size of the WT. These studies suggest that RGB1 has different functions than RGA1.
22499205	MKRN gene family encodes zinc ring finger proteins characterized by a unique array of motifs (C3H, RING and a characteristic cys-his motif) in eukaryotes. To elucidate the function of the MKRN gene and to draw an analogy between plant root apical meristem and animal brain, we compared the gene expression pattern of MKRN in plant seeds with that of mouse embryo. The spatio-temporal expression of MKRN in seeds of pea and rice was performed using non radioactive mRNA in situ hybridization (NRISH) with DIG and BIOTIN labeled probes for pea and rice embryos respectively. Images of MKRN1 expression in e10.5 whole mount mouse embryo, hybridized with DIG labeled probes, were obtained from the Mouse Genome Database (MGD). MKRN transcripts were expressed in the vascular bundle, root apical meristem (RAM) and shoot apical meristem (SAM) in pea and rice embryos. The spatial annotation of the MKRN1 NRISH of whole mount mouse embryo shows prominent localization of MKRN1 in the brain, and its possible expression in spinal cord and the genital ridge. Localization of MKRN in the anterior and posterior ends of pea and rice embryo suggests to the probable role it may have in sculpting the pea and rice plants. The expression of MKRN in RAM may give a molecular insight into the hypothesis that plants have their brains seated in the root. The expression of MKRN is similar in functionally and anatomically analogous regions of plant and animal embryos, including the vascular bundle (spinal cord), the RAM (brain), and SAM (genital ridge) thus paving way for further inter-kingdom comparison studies.
22499210	The plant cell apoplast is the compartment beyond the cell plasmalemma, including the cell wall and intercellular space. Many environmental elements can trigger reactive oxygen species (ROS) burst at the plasma membrane which then alters the redox state of the apoplast. Recently, h-type thioredoxin (Trx), OsTRXh1, was identified to be involved in apoplastic redox state regulation in rice. OsTRXh1 is conserved redox-active Trx and can be secreted into the extracellular regions. Through transgenic rice plant, we found that OsTRXh1 regulated ROS accumulation in apoplast and influenced plant development and stress responses. This provides new insights into apoplastic redox state regulation pathway and expands our understanding of h-type Trxs function.
22499856	The effect of environmental factors on the regulation of aerenchyma formation in rice roots has been discussed for a long time, because aerenchyma is constitutively formed under aerated conditions. To elucidate this problem, a unique method has been developed that enables sensitive detection of differences in the development of aerenchyma under two different environmental conditions. The method is tested to determine whether aerenchyma development in rice roots is affected by osmotic stress. To examine aerenchyma formation both with and without mannitol treatment in the same root, germinating rice (Oryza sativa) caryopses were sandwiched between two agar slabs, one of which contained 270 mm of mannitol. The roots were grown touching both slabs and were thereby exposed unilaterally to osmotic stress. As a non-invasive approach, refraction contrast X-ray computed tomography (CT) using a third-generation synchrotron facility, SPring-8 (Super photon ring 8 GeV, Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute), was used to visualize the three-dimensional (3-D) intact structure of aerenchyma and its formation in situ in rice roots. The effects of unilateral mannitol treatment on the development of aerenchyma were quantitatively examined using conventional light microscopy. Structural continuity of aerenchyma was clearly visualized in 3-D in the primary root of rice and in situ using X-ray CT. Light microscopy and X-ray CT showed that the development of aerenchyma was promoted on the mannitol-treated side of the root. Detailed light microscopic analysis of cross-sections cut along the root axis from the tip to the basal region demonstrated that aerenchyma developed significantly closer to the root tip on the mannitol-treated side of the root. Continuity of the aerenchyma along the rice root axis was morphologically demonstrated using X-ray CT. By using this 'sandwich' method it was shown that mannitol promoted aerenchyma formation in the primary roots of rice.
22500165	MANY POSTZYGOTIC REPRODUCTIVE BARRIER FORMS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PLANTS: hybrid weakness, hybrid necrosis, and hybrid chlorosis. In this study, linkage analysis of the genes causing hybrid chlorosis in F(2) generation in rice, HCA1 and HCA2, was performed. HCA1 and HCA2 are located respectively on the distal regions of the short arms of chromosomes 12 and 11. These regions are known to be highly conserved as a duplicated chromosomal segment. The molecular mechanism causing F(2) chlorosis deduced from the location of the two genes was discussed. The possibility of the introgression of the chromosomal segments encompassing HCA1 and/or HCA2 was also discussed from the viewpoint of Indica-Japonica differentiation.
22500896	To enhance the production of hCTLA4Ig in transgenic rice suspension cell cultures, anoxic conditions were applied during the production phase. Under the anoxic conditions in sugar-depleted media, cell viability was reduced rapidly and protease activity increased compared to aerobic conditions. However, the maximum production level of hCTLA4Ig with sugar-depleted anoxic conditions was the same as that in aerobic conditions. In addition, the production of hCTLA4Ig under anoxic conditions reached a peak 2 days earlier than that in aerobic conditions. Addition of 30 mM glucose at the production phase under anoxic conditions markedly improved cell viability. A viability level over 65% could be maintained for more than 30 days. Repression of the RAmy3D promoter by residual sugar in the production of hCTLA4Ig was not observed under anoxic conditions with 30 mM glucose. In addition, the production periods of hCTLA4Ig was extended up to 30 days and the maximum production level of hCTLA4Ig under anoxic conditions was 2.1-fold higher. Therefore, anoxic conditions could be used for the enhanced production of hCTLA4Ig in transgenic rice cell cultures.
22500940	Miniature inverted repeat transposable element (MITE) is one type of transposable element (TE), which is largely found in eukaryotic genomes and involved in a wide variety of biological events. However, only few MITEs were proved to be currently active and their physiological function remains largely unknown. We found that the amplicon discrepancy of a gene locus LOC_Os01g0420 in different rice cultivar genomes was resulted from the existence of a member of Gaijin-like MITEs (mGing). This result indicated that mGing transposition was occurred at this gene locus. By using a modified transposon display (TD) analysis, the active transpositions of mGing were detected in rice Jiahua No. 1 genome under three conditions: in seedlings germinated from the seeds received a high dose γ-ray irradiation, in plantlets regenerated from anther-derived calli and from scutellum-derived calli, and were confirmed by PCR validation and sequencing. Sequence analysis revealed that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or short additional DNA sequences at transposition sites post mGing transposition. It suggested that sequence modification was possibly taken place during mGing transposition. Furthermore, cell re-differentiation experiment showed that active transpositions of both mGing and mPing (another well studied MITE) were identified only in regenerated plantlets. It is for the first time that mGing active transposition was demonstrated under γ-ray irradiation or in cell re-differentiation process in rice. This newly identified active MITE will provide a foundation for further analysis of the roles of MITEs in biological process.
22502742	Efficient Se biofortification programs require a thorough understanding of the accumulation and distribution of Se species within the rice grain. Therefore, the translocation of Se species to the filling grain and their spatial unloading were investigated. Se species were supplied via cut flag leaves of intact plants and excised panicle stems subjected to a ± stem-girdling treatment during grain fill. Total Se concentrations in the flag leaves and grain were quantified by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Spatial accumulation was investigated using synchrotron X-ray fluorescence microtomography. Selenomethionine (SeMet) and selenomethylcysteine (SeMeSeCys) were transported to the grain more efficiently than selenite and selenate. SeMet and SeMeSeCys were translocated exclusively via the phloem, while inorganic Se was transported via both the phloem and xylem. For SeMet- and SeMeSeCys-fed grain, Se dispersed throughout the external grain layers and into the endosperm and, for SeMeSeCys, into the embryo. Selenite was retained at the point of grain entry. These results demonstrate that the organic Se species SeMet and SeMeSeCys are rapidly loaded into the phloem and transported to the grain far more efficiently than inorganic species. Organic Se species are distributed more readily, and extensively, throughout the grain than selenite.
22503142	The residue of atrazine (a herbicide) has become hazards in environments due to its intensive use. However, its molecular toxicity to on plants and human beings is not fully understood. In this study, we performed high-throughput sequencing of atrazine-exposed rice (Oryza sativa) to analyze global expression and complexity of genes in the crop. Four libraries were constructed from shoots and roots with or without atrazine exposure. We sequenced 5,751,861, 5,790,013, 5,375,999 and 6,039,618 clean tags that corresponded to 220,806, 111,301, 248,802 and 114,338 distinct tags for Root-Atr (root control, atrazine-free), Shoot-Atr (shoot control, atrazine-free), Root+Atr (root treated with atrazine) and Shoot+Atr (shoot treated with atrazine) libraries, respectively. Mapping the clean tags to gene databases generated 18,833-21,007 annotated genes for each library. Most of annotated genes were differentially expressed among the libraries. The most 40 differentially expressed genes were associated with resistance to environmental stress, degradation of xenobiotics and molecular metabolism. Validation of gene expression by quantitative RT-PCR confirmed the deep-sequencing results. The transcriptome sequences were further subjected to Gene Orthology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis and showed modified biological functions and metabolic pathways. Our results not only highlight the transcriptional complexity in rice with atrazine but also represent a major improvement for analyzing transcriptional changes on a large scale in xenobiotics-responsive toxicology.
22503148	Various agricultural and kitchen waste residues were assessed for their ability to support the production of a complete cellulase system by Aspergillus niger NS-2 in solid state fermentation. Untreated as well as acid and base-pretreated substrates including corn cobs, carrot peelings, composite, grass, leaves, orange peelings, pineapple peelings, potato peelings, rice husk, sugarcane bagasse, saw dust, wheat bran, wheat straw, simply moistened with water, were found to be well suited for the organism's growth, producing good amounts of cellulases after 96 h without the supplementation of additional nutritional sources. Yields of cellulases were higher in alkali treated substrates as compared to acid treated and untreated substrates except in wheat bran. Of all the substrates tested, wheat bran appeared to be the best suited substrate producing appreciable yields of CMCase, FPase and β-glucosidase at the levels of 310, 17 and 33 U/g dry substrate respectively. An evaluation of various environmental parameters demonstrated that appreciable levels of cellulases could be produced over a wide range of temperatures (20-50 °C) and pH levels (3.0-8.0) with a 1:1.5 to 1:1.75 substrate to moisture ratio.
22503430	One time application of fly ash was done at the rate of 200 t/hectare in the crop lands in Odisha, India. The increase in yield of maize grains was 28% and 34% over the control values whereas the increase in yield of rice grains was 40% and 13% at Malud and Dhenkanal, respectively. The results indicated that fly ash is an amendment for soil which can improve the physical and chemical properties of deficient soil and improves the soil fertility and crop yield.
22503483	Textural, rheological and microstructural properties of frankfurters made with 20% pork backfat, 20% canola or 20% canola-olive (3:1) oils, including rice bran (RB) and walnut extract (WE) as macronutrients (2.5%) were investigated. Textural parameters, including hardness, gumminess and rupture-force, were highly (P<0.05) influenced by the fat-oil composition. Addition of RB or WE in vegetable oil emulsions improved textural consistency (P<0.05). However, RB addition reduced gelling capacity, suggesting antagonistic interactions between fiber and oil droplets. Vegetable oil addition favored gel network formation, and, when combined with WE, showed the highest improvement of gel elasticity. These textural and gelling properties were corroborated by frankfurter micrographs, which revealed interactions between vegetable oils, RB, or WE with protein matrix and fat globules affecting these parameters. The results suggest that functional plant-derived ingredients can be valuable to the modification of frankfurter formulations for improved nutrition and as well as textural quality.
22503558
22504668	With the development of genetically modified crops, there has been a growing interest in available approaches to assess the potential allergenicity of novel gene products. We were not sure whether Cry1C could induce allergy. We examined the protein with three other proteins to determine the potential allergenicity of Cry1C protein from genetically modified rice. Female Brown Norway (BN) rats received 0.1 mg peanut agglutinin (PNA), 1mg potato acid phosphatase (PAP), 1mg ovalbumin (OVA) or 5 mg purified Cry1C protein dissolved in 1 mL water by daily gavage for 42 days to test potential allergenicity. Ten days after the last gavage, rats were orally challenged with antigens, and physiologic and immunologic responses were studied. In contrast to sensitization with PNA, PAP and OVA Cry1C protein did not induce antigen-specific IgG2a in BN rats. Cytokine expression, serum IgE and histamine levels and the number of eosinophils and mast cells in the blood of Cry1C group rats were comparable to the control group rats, which were treated with water alone. As Cry1C did not show any allergenicity, we make the following conclusion that the protein could be safety used in rice or other plants.
22505428	The AREB/ABF family of bZIP transcription factors play a key role in drought stress response and tolerance during the vegetative stage in plants. To reveal the DNA-recognition mechanism of the AREB/ABF family of proteins, the bZIP domain of OsAREB8, an AREB/ABF-family protein from Oryza sativa, was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and crystallized with its cognate DNA. Crystals of the OsAREB8-DNA complex were obtained by the sitting-drop vapour-diffusion method at 277 K with a reservoir solution consisting of 50 mM MES pH 6.4, 29% MPD, 2 mM spermidine, 20 mM magnesium acetate and 100 mM sodium chloride. A crystal diffracted X-rays to 3.65 Å resolution and belonged to space group C222, with unit-cell parameters a = 155.1, b = 206.7, c = 38.5 Å. The crystal contained one OsAREB8-DNA complex in the asymmetric unit.
22505773	Simplified cultivation technologies for rice have become increasingly attractive in recent years in China because of their social, economical and environmental benefits. To date, several simplified cultivation technologies, such as conventional tillage and seedling throwing (CTST), conventional tillage and direct seeding (CTDS), no-tillage and seedling throwing (NTST), no-tillage and direct seeding (NTDS) and no-tillage and transplanting (NTTP), have been developed in China. Most studies have shown that rice grown under each of these simplified cultivation technologies can produce a grain yield equal to or higher than traditional cultivation (conventional tillage and transplanting). Studies that have described the influences of agronomic practices on yield formation of rice under simplified cultivation have demonstrated that optimizing agronomy practices would increase the efficiencies of simplified cultivation systems. Further research is needed to optimize the management strategies for CTST, CTDS and NTST rice which have developed quickly in recent years, to strengthen basic research for those simplified cultivation technologies that are rarely used at present (such as NTTP and NTDS), to select and breed cultivars suitable for simplified cultivation and to compare the practicability and effectiveness of different simplified cultivation technologies in different rice production regions.
22505775	An inventory of topsoil soil organic carbon (SOC) content in household farms was performed in a village from a red earth region in Jiangxi Province, China in 2003. In this region, the farmland managed by each household is fragmented, consisting of several plots of land that are not necessarily adjacent to each other. A statistical analysis of SOC variation with land use and household management type, and with crop management practices was conducted. Plot size ranged from 0·007 to 0·630 ha with a mean of 0·1 ha, and SOC content ranged from 1·72 to 25·2 g/kg, varying widely with a variety of land management and agricultural practices, arising from individual household behaviours. The mean SOC content in plot size <0·1 ha was 20% lower than in plot size ⩾0·1 ha. SOC of dry crop plots was 70% lower than that in rice paddies, and SOC of plots contracted from the village was almost double that of plots leased from other householders. Moreover, a 30% increase in SOC was observed with green manure cultivation, and a 55% increase under triple cropping. The difference in SOC levels between the least and most favourable cases of household land management and agricultural practice was up to 150%. The results suggest that policies targeted at crop management alone may not deliver the expected SOC benefits if household land management is also not improved.
22506564
2250657	Blasticidin S (BS), a fungicide of microbial origin, is used for the practical control of rice blast disease. It has broad antimicrobial activity but occasionally exhibits adverse phytotoxic effects on some dicot plants. An inactivating enzyme, BS deaminase, was discovered in the BS resistant strain, Bacillus cereus K55-S1, and the structural gene, bsr, for the enzyme has been cloned. We introduced the bsr gene into tobacco plants using the Ti plasmid vector system and demonstrated that the bsr gene conferred a BS resistant phenotype to the plants. Thus the bsr gene could be useful as a selective marker for plant transformation and provides an example for a new approach to the solution of phytotoxicity problems associated with the use of some types of fungicide.
22506799	Ferrous iron toxicity is a mineral disorder frequently occurring under waterlogged soils where rice is cultivated. To decipher the main metabolic pathways involved in rice response to iron excess, seedlings have been exposed to 125 mg L(-1) FeSO(4) for 3 weeks. A combined transcriptomic, biochemical and physiological study has been performed after short-term (3 d) or long-term (3 weeks) exposure to iron in order to elucidate the strategy of stress adaptation with time. Our results showed that short- and long-term exposure involved a very different response in gene expression regarding both the number and function. A larger number of genes were up- or down-regulated after 3 d than after 3 weeks of iron treatment; these changes also occurred in shoot even though no significant difference in iron concentration was recorded. Those modifications in gene expression after 3 d affected not only genes involved in hormonal signalling but also genes involved in C-compound and carbohydrate metabolism, oxygen and electron transfer, oxidative stress, and iron homeostasis and transport. Modification in some gene expression can be followed by modification in corresponding metabolic products and physiological properties, or differed in time for some others, underlying the importance of an integrated study.
22507309	COM1/SAE2 is a highly conserved gene from yeast to higher eukaryotes. Its orthologs, known to cooperate with the MRX complex (Mre11/Rad50/Xrs2), are required for meiotic DNA double-strand break (DSB) ends resection and specific mitotic DSB repair events. Here, the rice (Oryza sativa, 2n = 2x = 24) COM1/SAE2 homolog was identified through positional cloning, termed OsCOM1. Four independent mutants of OsCOM1 were isolated and characterized. In Oscom1 mutants, synaptonemal complex (SC) formation, homologous pairing and recombination were severely inhibited, whereas aberrant non-homologous chromosome entanglements occurred constantly. Several key meiotic proteins, including ZEP1 and OsMER3, were not loaded normally onto chromosomes in Oscom1 mutants, whereas the localization of OsREC8, PAIR2 and PAIR3 seemed to be normal. Moreover, OsCOM1 was loaded normally onto meiotic chromosomes in Osrec8, zep1 and Osmer3 mutants, but could not be properly loaded in Osam1, pair2 and OsSPO11-1(RNAi) plants. These results provide direct evidence for the functions of OsCOM1 in promoting homologous synapsis and recombination in rice meiosis.
22507619	Dietary pattern and genetic predisposition of each population have different impacts on lifestyle-related chronic diseases. This study was conducted to evaluate the association and interaction between dietary patterns and VEGFR2 or KDR gene polymorphisms on physical and biochemical risk factors of cardiovascular disease in two Asian populations (179 Chinese Malaysian and 136 Japanese adults). Dietary patterns were constructed from food frequency questionnaire using factor analysis. Genotyping of rs1870377 and rs2071559 was performed by real-time PCR using TaqMan probes. Physical measurements: body mass index, systolic and diastolic blood pressures and biochemical parameters: glycated hemoglobin A1c and blood lipids (total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and total cholesterol/HDL-C ratio) were measured. Two dietary patterns were extracted for: Japanese ('Japanese diet' and 'Western diet') and Chinese Malaysians ('Balanced diet'; and 'Meat, rice and noodles diet'). In Japanese, 'Western Diet' and rs2071559 were associated with LDL-C and HDL-C, respectively. In Chinese Malaysians, 'Meat, rice and noodles diet' was asso-ciated with triglycerides, HDL-C and total cholesterol/HDL ratio while rs1870377 and rs2071559 were associated with total cholesterol and/or LDL-C. The interaction between 'Western Diet' and rs2071559 in Japanese and 'Meat, rice and noodles diet' and rs1870377 in Malaysians had significant effects on blood lipids after adjusting for confounders. The association and interaction of dietary patterns and VEGFR2 gene polymorphisms on blood lipids differ between Chinese Malaysian and Japanese subjects by either decreasing or increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease.
22508318	Experiments were conducted to determine the effects that different methods for the preparation of modern plant samples have on the resulting phytoliths using rice husks (Oryza sp.). The methods that are commonly used in phytolith extraction include (1) dry ashing, (2) acid extraction (3) a combination of both techniques. The results showed that processing methods have an impact on the morphology of two subspecies of rice phytoliths, dry ashing producing more conjoined cell phytoliths or multicells phytoliths than acid extraction. Using a combination of both methods resulted in the presence of fewer conjoined cells than dry ashing alone, but more conjoined cells than acid extraction. Alternative explanations are proposed to explain the formation of conjoined phytolith cells.
22509574	The in situ 120 days experiment was conducted to investigate effects of rainfall on nitrogen and phosphorus loss from courtyard composting with four kinds of coverage, involving no coverage, rice straw, thin film and soil, and their risks of nonpoint source pollution were discussed. The results showed that, with decomposing of the manure and increasing of runoff, the concentration of total nitrogen (TN), ammoniac nitrogen (NH4(+)-N), nitrate nitrogen (NO3(-)-N), total phosphorus (TP) and dissolved phosphorus (DP) from courtyard composting decreased. Especially, the concentration variation of TN, NH4(+)-N, NO3(-)-N with time fit for I kinetic equation, while TP and DP fit for linear equation. The concentration order of nitrogen and phosphorus in runoff observed as follows: no coverage > coverage by rice straw > coverage by soil > coverage by thin film. As a result, the coverage by thin film could be used as a recommended mode to decrease the loss of nitrogen and phosphorus in runoff resulting from its low risks for nonpoint source pollution.
22509807	The potential of unintended effects caused by transgenic events is a key issue in the commercialization of genetically modified (GM) crops. To investigate whether transgenic events cause unintended effects, we used comparative proteomics approaches to evaluate proteome differences in seeds from 2 sets of GM indica rice, herbicide-resistant Bar68-1 carrying bar and insect-resistant 2036-1a carrying cry1Ac/sck, and their respective controls D68 and MH86, as well as indica variety MH63, a parental line for breeding MH86, and japonica variety ZH10. This experimental design allowed for comparing proteome difference caused by transgenes, conventional genetic breeding, and natural genetic variation. Proteomics analysis revealed the maximum numbers of differentially expressed proteins between indica and japonica cultivars, second among indica varieties with relative small difference between MH86 and MH63, and the minimum between GM rice and respective control, thus indicating GM events do not substantially alter proteome profiles as compared with conventional genetic breeding and natural genetic variation. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed 234 proteins differentially expressed in the 6 materials, and these proteins were involved in different cellular and metabolic processes with a prominent skew toward metabolism (31.2%), protein synthesis and destination (25.2%), and defense response (22.4%). In these seed proteomes, proteins implicated in the 3 prominent biological processes showed significantly different composite expression patterns and were major factors differentiating japonica and indica cultivars, as well as indica varieties. Thus, metabolism, protein synthesis and destination, and defense response in seeds are important in differentiating rice cultivars and varieties.
22510083	The effect of parboiled rice (PR) and white rice (WR) diets on oxidative stress (OS) parameters was investigated in the kidneys of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes (40 mg kg(-1), iv). The experimental groups (n=8) were control fed with PR (CPR), control fed with WR, diabetic fed with PR, and diabetic fed with WR. After 30 days of treatment, all animals were anesthetized and exsanguinated before removal of kidneys, which were used to determine thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), lipid hydroperoxides, carbonyl protein, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase, glutathione-S-transferase activities, and levels of glutathione (GSH). Total phenolic compounds were determined in WR and PR grains. Our data indicated that diabetes induced increase in TBARS and lipid hydroperoxides levels. Although PR has not prevented the rise in the levels of these measurements, its consumption by our animals resulted in higher GPx activity and GSH content than that of the CPR. Moreover, PR also presented concentration of total phenolic compounds 127% higher than WR grains. Thus, its consumption in this diabetic condition is suggested because this seems to confer greater protection against OS in the renal tissue of diabetic animals.
22510491	Lysine-rich rice (LR) is a transgenic rice produced by fusion protein expressed genes into the germline of rice seeds. Compositional analysis of LR showed that the absolute concentration of lysine was significantly higher as compared to a near-isogenic non-transgenic rice. Lysine is believed to be the first limiting essential amino acid in rice, it is important to improve lysine content on rice nutritional quality. Here we report the results of a three generation study comparing the outcome in rats fed the transgenic rice to those fed conventional, near-isogenic rice or a control diet. In the study, both clinical performance variables and pathological responses such as body weight, food consumption, reproductive data, hematological parameters, serum chemistry and relative organ weights were examined respectively. It was evident that there were no adverse effects observed in rats that were fed transgenic rice compared with non-transgenic rice. There were significant differences in some hematology, serum chemistry parameters and relative organ weights in rats consuming the transgenic rice diet or non-transgenic rice diet compared with the control diet, but no macroscopic or histological adverse effects were observed. So the results from this study demonstrate that LR rice is as safe as near-isogenic non-transgenic rice.
22511253	Cholinium amino acids ionic liquids ([Ch][AA] ILs), a novel type of bio-ILs that can easily be prepared from renewable biomaterials, were investigated for pretreatment of rice straw by selective extraction of lignin from this abundant lignocellulosic biomass material. Of the eight ILs examined, most were demonstrated to be excellent pretreatment solvents. Upon pretreatment using these ILs, the initial saccharification rates of rice straw residues were substantially improved as well as the extent to which polysaccharides could be digested (>90% for cellulose and >60% for xylan). Enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated rice straw by Trichoderma reesei cellulase/xylanase furnished glucose and xylose with the yields in excess of 80% and 30%, respectively. Detailed spectroscopic characterization showed that the enhancement of polysaccharides degestibility derived mainly from delignification rather than changes in cellulose crystallinity. The yields of fermentable reducing sugars were significantly improved after individual optimization of pretreatment temperature and duration. With [Ch][Lys] as the solvent, the sugar yields of 84.0% for glucose and 42.1% for xylose were achieved after pretreatment at 90°C for 5 h. The IL [Ch][Lys] showed excellent reusability across five successive batches in pretreatment of rice straw. These bio-ILs performed as well as or better than previously investigated non-renewable ILs, and thus present a new and environmentally friendly way to pretreat lignocellulose for production of fermentable sugars and total utilization of the biomass.
2251127
22511929	The perennial grass, switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.), is a promising bioenergy crop and the target of whole genome sequencing. We constructed two bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries from the AP13 clone of switchgrass to gain insight into the genome structure and organization, initiate functional and comparative genomic studies, and assist with genome assembly. Together representing 16 haploid genome equivalents of switchgrass, each library comprises 101,376 clones with average insert sizes of 144 (HindIII-generated) and 110 kb (BstYI-generated). A total of 330,297 high quality BAC-end sequences (BES) were generated, accounting for 263.2 Mbp (16.4%) of the switchgrass genome. Analysis of the BES identified 279,099 known repetitive elements, >50,000 SSRs, and 2,528 novel repeat elements, named switchgrass repetitive elements (SREs). Comparative mapping of 47 full-length BAC sequences and 330K BES revealed high levels of synteny with the grass genomes sorghum, rice, maize, and Brachypodium. Our data indicate that the sorghum genome has retained larger microsyntenous regions with switchgrass besides high gene order conservation with rice. The resources generated in this effort will be useful for a broad range of applications.
22511982	The commercial release of rice genetically engineered to express a Cry1Ab protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) for control of Lepidoptera in China is a subject of debate. One major point of the debate has focused on the ecological safety of Bt rice on nontarget organisms, especially predators and parasitoids that help control populations of insect pests. A tritrophic bioassay was conducted to evaluate the potential impact of Cry1Ab-expressing rice on fitness parameters of a predaceous ground spider (Pardosa pseudoannulata (Bösenberg et Strand)) that had fed on Bt rice-fed brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens (Stål)) nymphs. Survival, development time and fecundity of this spider were not different when they were fed with Bt rice-fed or non-Bt rice-fed prey. Furthermore, ELISA and PCR gut assays, as well as a functional response trial, indicated that predation by P. pseudoannulata was not significantly different in Bt rice or non-Bt rice fields. The transgenic Cry1Ab rice lines tested in this study had no adverse effects on the survival, developmental time and fecundity of P. pseudoannulata in the laboratory or on predation under field conditions. This suggests that this important predator would not be harmed if transgenic Cry1Ab rice were commercialized.
22512170	Visible/near-infrared (Vis/NIR) spectroscopy was investigated for the fast discrimination of rice leaves with different genes and the determination of chlorophyll content. Least squares-support vector machines (LS-SVM) was employed to discriminate transgenic rice leaves from non-transgenic ones. The classification accuracy of calibration samples reached to 100%. Successive projections algorithm (SPA) was proposed to select effective wavelengths. SPA-LS-SVM discrimination model was performed, and the result indicated that an 87.27% recognition ratio was achieved using only 0.3% of total variables. The optimal performance of each quantification model was achieved after orthogonal signal correction (OSA). Performances treated by SPA were better than that of full-spectrum PLS, which indicated that SPA is a powerful way for effective wavelength selection. The best performance of quantification was obtained by SPA-LS-SVM model; with correlation coefficient (R) and root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) being 0.902 2 and 1.312 1, respectively. Excellent classification and prediction precision were achieved. The overall results indicated that the new proposed SPA-LS-SVM is a powerful method for varieties recognition and SPAD prediction. This study supplied a new and alternative approach to the further application of Vis/NIR spectroscopy in on-field classification and monitoring.
22512207	A novel method was developed for the determination of trace lead and cadmium in transgenic brown rice based on separation and preconcentration with a micro column packed with crosslinked carboxymethyl konjac glucomannan (CCMKGM) prior to its determination by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry. Variables affecting the separation and preconcentration of lead and cadmium, such as the acidity of the aqueous solution, sample flow rate and volume, and eluent concentration and volume, were optimized. Under optimized condition, detection limits of the method for the determination of trace lead and cadmium in transgenic brown rice were 0.11 and 0.002 microg x L(-1), respectively. The obtained results of lead and cadmium in the certified reference material (GBW10010, GBS1-1) were in good agreement with the certified values. The recoveries were in the range of 90%-103% and 93%-105% for detection of Pb and Cd in transgenic brown rice and the wild-type brown rice samples respectively. This study could provide technical support for determination of trace Pb and Cd in transgenic rice.
22513251	The structural evolution of rice husk char particles during steam gasification was studied by ultimate analysis, inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy, scanning electronic microscope, N(2) physisorption method and X-ray diffraction. Drastic changes in char structure occurred even when the char conversion was minimal. The C, H and O content decreased by more than 85%, 67% and 91%, respectively. The H/C atomic ratio always increased, while the O/C exhibited a "∼" shape. The maximum porosity appeared at char conversion of 48.6%. D(s) and d(ave) showed a good linear relationship. Aliphatic structures and smaller aromatic rings tended to be preferentially consumed to left the char more ordered and enriched with larger aromatic ring systems. The presence of steam favored the volatilization of Na. K, Mg and Ca showed a similar behavior and their concentrations reached maxima at 60.3%. Great loss of O-containing structures caused significant volatilization of K, Mg and Ca.
22513403	Accumulation of total Hg (THg) and methylmercury (MeHg) was investigated among 50 indica rice varieties cultivated in 3 sites in Guizhou, China, classified as highly-contaminated, moderately-contaminated, and background sites. Concentrations of soil and pore water (depth: 0-2 cm) THg and MeHg were poor predictors of THg and MeHg concentrations in polished white rice and bran, with significantly higher accumulation in the moderately-contaminated site compared to the other 2 sites (ANOVA, p<0.0001). Results indicated other environmental factors played a critical role in the translocation of Hg species from paddy soil to rice grain. We hypothesized alkaline conditions at the highly-contaminated site (surface water pH 11, other 2 sites pH 7.6-8.0), mitigated the uptake of Hg species by decreasing the solubility of micronutrients needed for plant growth, or by reducing the bioavailability of Hg species. White rice MeHg concentrations were associated with genotype but not inorganic Hg(II) concentrations (IHg=THG-MeHg) (MeHg: p<0.001, IHG: p=0.44), while bran MeHg and IHg concentrations were not significantly associated with genotype (p>0.05 for both analyses), indicating there may be genetic markers for the translocation of MeHg from the caryopsis to the endosperm, i.e., from the maternal to the filial tissue. Lastly, calculation of daily MeHg ingestion rates confirmed international guidelines for MeHg exposure were exceeded at the moderately-contaminated site (background: 0.013±0.0052 μg kg(-1) d(-1), n=46; highly-contaminated: 0.066±0.034 μg kg(-1) d(-1), n=49; moderately-contaminated: 0.42±0.13 μg kg(-1) d(-1), n=49). However, MeHg exposure at this site may be decreased up to 69% by cultivating low Hg-accumulating rice varieties.
22514089	A large part of the rice genome is composed of transposons. Since active excision/reintegration of these mobile elements may result in harmful genetic changes, many transposons are maintained in a genetically or epigenetically inactivated state. However, some non-autonomous DNA transposons of the nDart1-3 subgroup, including nDart1-0, actively transpose in specific rice lines, such as pyl-v which carries an active autonomous element, aDart1-27, on chromosome 6. Although nDart1-3 subgroup elements show considerable sequence identity, they display different excision frequencies. The most active element, nDart1-0, had a low cytosine methylation status. The aDart1-27 sequence showed conservation between pyl-stb (pyl-v derivative line) and Nipponbare, which both lack autonomous activity for transposition of nDart1-3 subgroup elements. In pyl-v plants, the promoter region of the aDart1-27 transposase gene was more hypomethylated than in other rice lines. Treatment with the methylation inhibitor 5-azacytidine (5-azaC) induced transposition of nDart1-3 subgroup elements in both pyl-stb and Nipponbare plants; the new insertion sites were frequently located in genic regions. 5-AzaC treatment principally induced expression of Dart1-34 transposase rather than the other 38 aDart1-related elements in both pyl-stb and Nipponbare treatment groups. Our observations show that transposition of nDart1-3 subgroup elements in the nDart1/aDart1 tagging system is correlated with the level of DNA methylation. Our system does not cause somaclonal variation due to an absence of transformed plants, offers the possibility of large-scale screening in the field and can identify dominant mutants. We therefore propose that this tagging system provides a valuable addition to the tools available for rice functional genomics.
22514699	Protein phosphatases, together with protein kinases, regulate protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation, and play critical roles in plant growth and biotic stress responses. However, little is known about the biological functions of plant protein tyrosine dual-specificity phosphatase (PFA-DSP) in biotic stresses. Here, we found that OsPFA-DSP2 was mainly expressed in calli, seedlings, roots, and young panicles, and localized in cytoplasm and nucleus. Ectopic overexpression of OsPFA-DSP2 in rice increased sensitivity to Magnaporthe grisea (M. grisea Z1 strain), inhibited the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and suppressed the expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes after fungal infection. Interestingly, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtPFA-DSP4, which is homologous to OsPFA-DSP2, also exhibited sensitivity to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pst DC3000), reduced accumulation of H(2)O(2) and decreased photosynthesic capacity after infection compared with Col-0. These results indicate that OsPFA-DSP2 and AtPFA-DSP4 act as negative regulators of the pathogen response in transgenic plants.
22515251	Kochujang is a traditional Korean fermented food that is made with red pepper, glutinous rice, salt, and soybean. Kochujang is fermented by naturally occurring microorganisms through which it obtains various health-promoting properties. In this study, the bacterial diversities of 9 local and 2 commercial brands of kochujang were analyzed with a barcoded pyrosequencing technique targeting the hyper-variable regions V1/V2 of the 16S rRNA gene. Through the analysis of 13524 bacterial pyrosequences, 223 bacterial species were identified, most of which converged on the phylum Firmicutes (average 93.1%). All of the kochujang samples were largely populated (>90.9% of abundance) by 12 bacterial families, and Bacillaceae showed the highest abundance in all but one sample. Bacillus subtilis and B. licheniformis were the most dominant bacterial species and were broadly distributed among the kochujang samples. Each sample contained a high abundance of region-specific bacterial species, such as B. sonorensis, B. pumilus, Weissella salipiscis, and diverse unidentified Bacillus species. Phylotype- and phylogeny-based community comparison analysis showed that the microbial communities of the two commercial brands were different from those of the local brands. Moreover, each local brand kochujang sample had region-specific microbial community reflecting the manufacturing environment.
22516812	The antagonism between abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellin (GA) plays a key role in controlling seed germination, but the mechanism of antagonism during this process is not known. In the associated study, we investigated the relationship among ABA, reactive oxygen species (ROS), ascorbic acid (ASC) and GA during rice seed germination. ROS production is reduced by ABA, which hence results in decreasing ASC accumulation during imbibition. GA accumulation was also suppressed by a reduced ROS and ASC level, whereas application of exogenous ASC can partially rescue seed germination from ABA treatment. Further results show that production of ASC, which acts as a substrate in GA biosynthesis, was significantly inhibited by lycorine which thus suppressed the accumulation of GA. Consequently, expression of GA biosynthesis genes was suppressed by the low levels of ROS and ASC in ABA-treated seeds. These studies reveal a new role for ASC in mediating the antagonism between ABA and GA during seed germination in rice.
22516826	The present review encompasses the physiological and yield constraints of herbicide applications with special reference to wheat productivity. Post-independence lagging of Indian agriculture to feed its population led to haphazard use of chemical pesticides and weedicides which deteriorated the productivity pay-off particularly of wheat and rice. Past some decades witnessed the potential use of certain phytohormones in augmenting abiotic stress to get rid of yield gap and productivity constraints. We summed up with reviewing the potential role of these natural regulators in overcoming above mentioned drawbacks to substitute or to integrate these chemicals with the use of plant hormones.
22517118	We investigated the rate constants and reaction mechanism of the gas phase reaction between the ethynyl radical and nitrous oxide (C(2)H + N(2)O) using both experimental methods and electronic structure calculations. A pulsed-laser photolysis/chemiluminescence technique was used to determine the absolute rate coefficient over the temperature range 570 K to 836 K. In this experimental temperature range, the measured temperature dependence of the overall rate constants can be expressed as: k(T) (C(2)H + N(2)O) = 2.93 × 10(-11) exp((-4000 ± 1100) K/T) cm(3) s(-1) (95% statistical confidence). Portions of the C(2)H + N(2)O potential energy surface (PES), containing low-energy pathways, were constructed using the composite G3B3 method. A multi-step reaction route leading to the products HCCO + N(2) is clearly preferred. The high selectivity between product channels favouring N(2) formation occurs very early. The pathway corresponds to the addition of the terminal C atom of C(2)H to the terminal N atom of N(2)O. Refined calculations using the coupled-cluster theory whose electronic energies were extrapolated to the complete basis set limit CCSD(T)/CBS led to an energy barrier of 6.0 kcal mol(-1) for the entrance channel. The overall rate constant was also determined by application of transition-state theory and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) statistical analyses to the PES. The computed rate constants have similar temperature dependence to the experimental values, though were somewhat lower.
22517316	Understanding tissue-related gene expression patterns can provide important insights into gene, tissue, and organ function. Transcriptome analyses often have focused on housekeeping or tissue-specific genes or on gene coexpression. However, by analyzing thousands of single-gene expression distributions in multiple tissues of Arabidopsis thaliana, rice (Oryza sativa), human (Homo sapiens), and mouse (Mus musculus), we found that these organisms primarily operate by gene sharing, a phenomenon where, in each organism, most genes exhibit a high expression level in a few key tissues. We designed an analytical pipeline to characterize this phenomenon and then derived Arabidopsis and human gene-sharing networks, in which tissues are connected solely based on the extent of shared preferentially expressed genes. The results show that tissues or cell types from the same organ system tend to group together to form network modules. Tissues that are in consecutive developmental stages or have common physiological functions are connected in these networks, revealing the importance of shared preferentially expressed genes in conferring specialized functions of each tissue type. The networks provide predictive power for each tissue type regarding gene functions of both known and heretofore unknown genes, as shown by the identification of four new genes with functions in guard cell and abscisic acid response. We provide a Web interface that enables, based on the extent of gene sharing, both prediction of tissue-related functions for any Arabidopsis gene of interest and predictions concerning the relatedness of tissues. Common gene-sharing patterns observed in the four model organisms suggest that gene sharing evolved as a fundamental organizing principle of gene expression in diverse multicellular eukaryotes.
22517350	Current evidence demonstrates that probiotics reduce diarrheal duration from a number of etiologies. Professional nursing practice based on evidence and clinical expertise supports a diet-containing probiotics to manage acute diarrhea. Dietary limitations included in the BRAT (bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast) diet recommended by many nurses need to be reexamined in light of the newest evidence.
22517353
22518148	No-cook process using granular starch hydrolyzing enzyme (GSHE) was evaluated for Indian broken rice and pearl millet. One-factor-at-a-time optimization method was used in ethanol production to identify optimum concentration of GSHE, under yeast fermentation conditions using broken rice and pearl millet as fermentation feedstocks. An acid fungal protease at a concentration of 0.2 kg per metric ton of grain was used along with various dosages of GSHE under yeast fermentation conditions to degrade the grain proteins into free amino nitrogen for yeast growth. To measure the efficacy of GSHE to hydrolyze no-cook broken rice and pearl millet, the chemical composition, fermentation efficiency, and ethanol recovery were determined. In both feedstocks, fermentation efficiency and ethanol recovery obtained through single-step no-cook process were higher than conventional multistep high-temperature process, currently considered the ideal industrial process. Furthermore, the no-cook process can directly impact energy consumption through steam saving and reducing the water cooling capacity needs, compared to conventional high-temperature process.
22519706	As important signal molecules, jasmonates (JAs) and green leaf volatiles (GLVs) play diverse roles in plant defense responses against insect pests and pathogens. However, how plants employ their specific defense responses by modulating the levels of JA and GLVs remains unclear. Here, we describe identification of a role for the rice HPL3 gene, which encodes a hydroperoxide lyase (HPL), OsHPL3/CYP74B2, in mediating plant-specific defense responses. The loss-of-function mutant hpl3-1 produced disease-resembling lesions spreading through the whole leaves. A biochemical assay revealed that OsHPL3 possesses intrinsic HPL activity, hydrolyzing hydroperoxylinolenic acid to produce GLVs. The hpl3-1 plants exhibited enhanced induction of JA, trypsin proteinase inhibitors and other volatiles, but decreased levels of GLVs including (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol. OsHPL3 positively modulates resistance to the rice brown planthopper [BPH, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål)] but negatively modulates resistance to the rice striped stem borer [SSB, Chilo suppressalis (Walker)]. Moreover, hpl3-1 plants were more attractive to a BPH egg parasitoid, Anagrus nilaparvatae, than the wild-type, most likely as a result of increased release of BPH-induced volatiles. Interestingly, hpl3-1 plants also showed increased resistance to bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae). Collectively, these results indicate that OsHPL3, by affecting the levels of JA, GLVs and other volatiles, modulates rice-specific defense responses against different invaders.
22519925	The study describes the development of simple and rapid DNA extraction method in combination with loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) to detect enterotoxigenic Staphylococcus aureus in food samples. In this study, isolation of genomic DNA of enterotoxigenic Staph. aureus from spiked milk, milk burfi, khoa, sugarcane juice and boiled rice was carried out by boiling the isolated sample pellets for 10 min with 1% Triton X-100. The isolated DNA was evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and LAMP method. The LAMP was found to be 100 times more sensitive than PCR. The LAMP assay was very specific for Staph. aureus, and the presence of other contaminating bacterial DNAs and food matrix did not interfere or inhibit the LAMP assay. The template DNA extraction method developed in this study for food samples is simple, rapid and cost-effective. LAMP was found to be less sensitive to matrix effect of food, compared to PCR. The method is suitable for direct detection of Staph. aureus without any enrichment in contaminated food samples and hence finds its application in food safety analysis, in permutation with LAMP.
22521101	Measurements of methane (CH(4)) and nitrous oxide (N(2)O) fluxes have been extensively taken following rice seedlings transplanted into paddy fields, while little is known about CH(4) and N(2)O fluxes from rice seedling nurseries. Fluxes of CH(4) and N(2)O were simultaneously measured in rice seedling nurseries under the water regimes of continuous flooding and moist irrigation without waterlogging in Southeast China in 2010. Fluxes of CH(4) and N(2)O from continuously flooded nurseries averaged 10.33-14.84 mg m(-2) h(-1) and 28.64-34.35 μg N(2)O-Nm(-2) h(-1) for the different fertilizer applied plots, respectively. Relative to continuous flooding, moist irrigation decreased total CH(4) by 14-50% but increased N(2)O by 72-186%, dependent on the fertilizer types. Compared with inorganic N fertilizer, organic manure application increased CH(4) by 44% and 148% in the continuously flooded and moist irrigation nurseries, respectively. Rice seedling growth parameters were the greatest in moist irrigation nurseries with inorganic N fertilizer application. Moist irrigation instead of continuous waterlogging and shifts from organic manure to combined organic/inorganic N fertilizer inputs have been increasingly experienced in Chinese rice seedling nurseries, which would benefit for mitigating the combined global warming potentials of CH(4) and N(2)O from rice seedling nurseries in China.
22522234	Some phenolic compounds, such as ferulic acid and p-coumaric acid, exist in the form of free acids, in fruits, rice, corn and other grains. Thermal treatment (121 °C at 15-17 psi) for different times on ferulic, p-coumaric and cinnamic acids as well as equimolar mixtures of these acids was investigated. Ferulic and p-coumaric acids underwent decarboxylation, yielding dimeric products formed through their corresponding radical intermediates, while cinnamic acid was recovered unreacted. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed no cross-dimerization when equimolar mixtures of pairs of hydroxycinnamic acids were treated under the same conditions. Dimers were characterized as (E)-4',4″-(but-1-ene-1,3-diyl)bis(2'-methoxyphenol)) (dimer of 4-vinylguaiacol) and (E)-4,4'-(but-1-ene-1,3-diyl)diphenol) (dimer of 4-vinylphenol) by nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry. Sterilization by thermal processing produced dimers of ferulic and coumaric acid. The antioxidant activity of these dimers was greater than that of the respective hydroxycinnamic acids. These results may be relevant for fruits and grains that contain hydroxycinnamic acids and undergo sterilization processes such as canning.
22522577	Mercury (Hg) is a serious environmental pollution threats to the planet. Accumulation of Hg in plants disrupts many cellular-level functions and inhibits growth and development, but the mechanism is not fully understood. We investigated cellular, biochemical and proteomic changes in rice roots under Hg stress. Root growth rate was decreased and Hg, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and malondialdehyde (MDA) content and lipoxygenase activity were increased significantly with increasing Hg concentration in roots. We revealed a time-dependent alteration in total glutathione content and enzymatic activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), catalase (CAT) and peroxidase (POD) during Hg stress. 2-D electrophoresis revealed differential expression of 25 spots with Hg treatment of roots: 14 spots were upregulated and 11 spots downregulated. These differentially expressed proteins were identified by ESI-MS/MS to be involved in cellular functions including redox and hormone homeostasis, chaperone activity, metabolism, and transcription regulation. These results may provide new insights into the molecular basis of the Hg stress response in plants.
22522784	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) have received considerable attention in insects for their roles in insecticide resistance. Laodelphax striatellus (Fallén) is a serious rice pest. L. striatellus outbreaks occur frequently throughout eastern Asia. A key problem in controlling this pest is its rapid adaptation to numerous insecticides. In this research, nine cDNAs encoding GSTs in L. striatellus were cloned and characterised. The cloned GSTs of L. striatellus belonged to six cytosolic classes and a microsomal subgroup. Exposure to sublethal concentrations of each of the six insecticides, DDT, chlorpyrifos, fipronil, imidacloprid, buprofezin and beta-cypermethrin, quickly induced (6 h) up-expression of LsGSTe1. The expression of LsGSTs2 was increased by chlorpyrifos, fipronil and beta-cypermethrin. Furthermore, exposure of L. striatellus to fipronil, imidacloprid, buprofezin and beta-cypermethrin increased the expression of the LsGSTm gene after 24 or 48 h. This work is the first identification of GST genes from different GST groups in Auchenorrhyncha species and their induction characteristics with insecticide types and time. The elevated expression of GST genes induced by insecticides might be related to the enhanced tolerance of this insect to insecticides and xenobiotics.
22523544	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a major class of small non-coding RNAs that act as negative regulators at the post-transcriptional level in animals and plants. In this study, all known miRNAs in four plant species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor) have been analyzed, using a combination of computational and comparative genomic approaches, to systematically identify and characterize the miRNAs that were derived from repetitive elements and duplication events. The study provides a complete mapping, at the genome scale, of all the miRNAs found on repetitive elements in the four test plant species. Significant differences between repetitive element-related miRNAs and non-repeat-derived miRNAs were observed for many characteristics, including their location in protein-coding and intergenic regions in genomes, their conservation in plant species, sequence length of their hairpin precursors, base composition of their hairpin precursors and the minimum free energy of their hairpin structures. Further analysis showed that a considerable number of miRNA families in the four test plant species arose from either tandem duplication events, segmental duplication events or a combination of the two. However, comparative analysis suggested that the contribution made by these two duplication events differed greatly between the perennial tree species tested and the other three annual species. The expansion of miRNA families in A. thaliana, O. sativa and S. bicolor are more likely to occur as a result of tandem duplication events than from segmental duplications. In contrast, genomic segmental duplications contributed significantly more to the expansion of miRNA families in P. trichocarpa than did tandem duplication events. Taken together, this study has successfully characterized miRNAs derived from repetitive elements and duplication events at the genome scale and provides comprehensive knowledge and deeper insight into the origins and evolution of miRNAs in plants.
22524477	To measure the fluoride (F) content of infant foods and drinks requiring reconstitution with liquids prior to consumption and to determine the impact of water F concentration on their F content, as consumed, by measuring F content before and after preparation. In total, 58 infant powdered formula milks, dry foods and concentrated drinks were prepared with deionized water (<0.02 ppm F) nonfluoridated (0.13 ppm F) and fluoridated (0.90 ppmF) water. The F concentrations of drink samples were measured directly using a fluoride-ion-selective electrode after addition of TISAB III, and food samples and formula milks measured indirectly by an acid diffusion method. The overall range of F concentrations of all the nonreconstituted samples, in their prepreparation dry or concentrated forms, was from 0.06 to 2.99 μg/g with the highest F concentration for foods found in the dry 'savoury meals' (a combination of vegetables and chicken or cheese or rice) group. However, when the samples were reconstituted with nonfluoridated water, the mean F concentrations of prepared 'concentrated juices', 'pasta and rice', 'breakfast cereals', 'savoury meals' and 'powdered infant formula milks' were 0.38, 0.26, 0.18, 0.16 and 0.15 μg/g, respectively. The corresponding mean F concentrations were 0.97, 1.21, 0.86, 0.74 and 0.91 μg/g, respectively, when the same samples were prepared with fluoridated water. Although some nonreconstituted infant foods/drinks showed a high F concentration in their dry or concentrated forms, the concentration of F in prepared foods/drinks primarily reflected the F concentration of liquid used for their preparation. Some infant foods/drinks, when reconstituted with fluoridated water, may result in a F intake in infants above the suggested optimum range (0.05-0.07 mg F/kg body weight) and therefore may put infants at risk of developing dental fluorosis. Further research is necessary to determine the actual F intake of infants living in fluoridated and nonfluoridated communities using reconstituted infant foods and drinks.
22525075	The red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), is primarily found associated with human structures such as wheat and rice mills. Such structures are predicted to be spatially isolated resource patches with frequent population bottlenecks that should influence their genetic structure. Genetic diversity and differentiation among nine populations of T. castaneum collected from wheat and rice mills (ranging from <1-5,700 km apart) were investigated using eight polymorphic loci (microsatellites and other insertion-deletion polymorphisms, each with 3-14 alleles). Seventy-two locus-by-population combinations were evaluated, of which 31 deviated significantly from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, all because of a deficiency of heterozygotes. AMOVA analysis indicated significant differences among populations, with 8.3% of the variation in allele frequency resulting from comparisons among populations, and commodity type and geographic region not significant factors. Although there were significant differences in genetic differentiation among populations (F(ST) values = 0.018-0.149), genetic distance was not significantly correlated with geographic distance. Correct assignment to the source population was successful for only 56% of individuals collected. Further analyses confirmed the occurrence of recent genetic bottlenecks in five out of nine populations. These results provide evidence that populations of T. castaneum collected from mills show spatial genetic structure, but the poor ability to assign individuals to source populations and lack of isolation by distance suggest greater levels of gene flow than predicted originally.
22525239	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatases (MKPs) are important negative regulators in the MAPK signaling pathways, which play crucial roles in plant growth, regulation of development and response to environment stresses. Several MAPKs have been reported to be involved in the drought stress response, however, there is no evidence for the specific function of MKPs in drought stress. Here, a putative MKP in rice (Oryza sativa), OsIBR5, was characterized. Expression of OsIBR5 was induced by PEG6000, abscisic acid (ABA) and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Overexpression of OsIBR5 in tobacco plants resulted in hypersensitivity to drought and H(2)O(2) treatments. Drought and ABA-induced stomatal closure was significantly reduced in OsIBR5-overexpressing tobacco plants compared with controls. Moreover, OsIBR5 was found to interact with tobacco MAPKs SIPK and WIPK, and drought-induced WIPK activity was impaired in OsIBR5-overexpressing tobacco plants. These results indicated that OsIBR5 is a MKP which was induced by abiotic stresses and decreased tolerance to drought stress in transgenic tobacco plants.
22525496	We developed abscinazole-E2B (Abz-E2B), a practical and specific inhibitor of abscisic acid (ABA) 8'-hydroxylase (CYP707A), by structural modification of abscinazole-E1 (Abz-E1), another compound we developed. A butoxy group was introduced to Abz-E2B instead of the tosylate group of Abz-E1, in expectation of better water solubility, because the calculated logP value of Abz-E2B is 3.47, which is smaller than that of Abz-E1 (4.02). The water solubility of Abz-E2B was greater than 90% at a concentration of 100 μM, at which the solubility of Abz-E1 was 20%. The enzyme specificity was improved significantly. In in vitro assays constructed using recombinant enzymes, (±)-Abz-E2B was a considerably weaker inhibitor than (±)-Abz-E1 for CYP701A, a GA biosynthetic enzyme, which is a target of S-uniconazole (S-UNI), a lead compound of Abz-E1. (±)-Abz-E2B application to plants resulted in improved desiccation tolerance and an increase in endogenous ABA, with little retardation of growth. We also prepared optically pure Abz-E2B and determined its absolute configuration. The R-enantiomer of Abz-E2B was the more potent inhibitor of CYP707A, unlike UNI, whereas both enantiomers were markedly less effective than S-UNI in inhibiting CYP701A. Because S-Abz-E2B arrested the growth of rice seedlings at 100 μM, probably because of off-target effects, R-Abz-E2B should be used as a chemical tool for research focusing on CYP707A when 100 μM or higher concentration is required, although (±)-Abz-E2B may be useful as an alternative option at a lower concentration.
2252555	Fourteen samples of settled dust from two factories processing rice and wheat straw near Shanghai, China, were examined by dilution plating for total bacteria, gram-negative bacteria, thermophilic actinomycetes, and fungi. They were also examined for aflatoxin, endotoxin, and potential to stimulate production of human interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) and to consume complement. The concentrations of total microorganisms were consistently greater than 10(7) CFU/g and ranged from 10(7) to 10(9) CFU/g. In general, the level of microbial contamination was greater in the hay dust samples than in the rice dust samples, with bacteria being the most numerous microorganisms observed followed by molds, thermophilic actinomycetes, and yeasts. The predominant fungi were species of Aspergillus, Cladosporium, Penicillium, Trichosporon, and Cryptococcus. No significant levels of aflatoxin were observed and the isolates of A. flavus examined lack significant aflatoxigenic potential. The levels of microorganisms in these samples, the types of organisms found, and the inflammatory mediators such as endotoxin suggest that workers exposed to these dusts may be at risk for respiratory illness.
22526427	The NAC (NAM, ATAF1/2 and CUC2) genes are plant-specific transcriptional factors known to play diverse roles in various plant developmental processes. We describe the rice (Oryza sativa) OsNAC genes expression profiles (GEPs) under normal and water-deficit treatments (WDTs). The GEPs of the OsNAC genes were analyzed in 25 tissues covering the entire life cycle of Minghui 63. High expression levels of 17 genes were demonstrated in certain tissues under normal conditions suggesting that these genes may play important roles in specific organs. We determined that 16 genes were differentially expressed under at least 1 phytohormone (NAA, GA3, KT, SA, ABA, and JA) treatment. To investigate the GEPs in the root, leaf, and panicle of three rice genotypes [e.g., 2 near-isogenic lines (NILs) and IR64], we used two NILs from a common genetic combination backcross developed by Aday Selection and IR64. WDTs were applied using the fraction of transpirable soil water at severe, mild, and control conditions. Transcriptomic analysis using a 44K oligoarray from Agilent was performed on all the tissue samples. We identified common and specific genes in all tissues from the two NILs under both WDTs, and the majority of the OsNAC genes that were activated were in the drought-tolerant IR77298-14-1-2-B-10 line compared with the drought-susceptible IR77298-14-1-2-B-13 or IR64. In IR77298-14-1-2-B-10, seventeen genes were very specific in their expression levels. Approximately 70 % of the genes from subgroups SNAC and NAM/CUC3 were activated in the leaf, but 37 % genes from subgroup SND were inactivated in the root compared with the control under severe stress conditions. These results provide a useful reference for the cloning of candidate genes from the specific subgroup for further functional analysis.
22526793	The anaerobic ammonium-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria play an important role in the oxygen-limited zone for nitrogen cycling, but their roles in agricultural ecosystems are still poorly understood. In this study, soil samples were taken from the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere and from surface (0-5 cm) and subsurface (20-25 cm) layers with 1, 4, and 9 years of rice cultivation history on the typical albic soil of Northeast China to examine the diversity and distribution of anammox bacteria based on 16S rRNA gene and hydrazine oxidoreductase encoding gene (hzo). By comparing these soil samples, no obvious difference was observed in community composition between the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere or the surface and subsurface layers. Surprisingly, anammox bacterial communities of these rice paddy soils were consisted of mainly Candidatus Scalindua species, which are best known to be dominant in marine and pristine environments. The highest diversity was revealed in the 4-year paddy soil based on clone library analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene and deduced HZO from the corresponding encoding gene showed that most of the obtained clones are grouped together with Candidatus Scalindua sorokinii, Candidatus Scalindua brodae, and Candidatus Scalindua spp. of seawater. The obtained clone sequences from all samples are distributed in two subclusters that contain sequences from environmental samples only. Tentative new species were also discovered in this paddy soil. This study provides the first evidence on the existence of anammox bacteria with limited diversity in agricultural ecosystems in Northern China.
22527005	The levels of DDTs, HCHs and PCBs in topsoil, cereal and irrigation water from typical industrial and agricultural areas of Jilin Province in Northeastern China were evaluated by using gas chromatography coupled with an electron capture detector. The amount of ∑OCPs and ∑(7)PCBs found in topsoils ranged from 24.7 to 98.0 and 17.2 to 98.7 ng g(-1), respectively. The geometric means of ∑HCHs, ∑DDTs and ∑(7)PCBs in rice stem samples were 28.9, 32.4 and 49.0 ng g(-1), respectively. The average level of total OCPs concentration in rice field water in Meihekou area (0.849 ng g(-1)) is higher than that in Jilin area (0.178 ng g(-1)) and all OCPs concentrations in rice field water met the water quality standards for Grade I regulated by China's national environmental quality standard of surface water.
22527116	There is consensus concerning the heavy metal pollution from traffic emission on roadside agricultural land. However, few efforts have been paid on examining the contamination characteristics of heavy metals in roadside paddy-upland rotation field, and especially in combination with detailed quantitative analysis. In this study, we investigated the concentrations of heavy metals (Pb, Cd, Cr and Zn) in soil and crop grains of the rice-wheat cropping system along a major highway in East China in 2008 and analyzed the spatial distribution characteristics of heavy metals and their influencing factors with GIS and Classification and Regression Trees (CART). Significantly elevated levels of heavy metals in soil, rice and wheat grains indicated the heavy metals contamination of traffic emission in roadside rice-wheat rotation field. The contamination levels of Cd, Cr and Zn in wheat grain were higher than rice grain, while that of Pb showed an opposite trend. Obvious dissimilarities in the spatial distributions of heavy metals contents were found between in the soil, rice and wheat grains, indicating that the heavy metals contents in the roadside crop grains were not only determined by the concentrations of heavy metals in the paddy soil. Results of CART analysis showed that the spatial variation of the heavy metals contents in crop grains was mainly affected by the soil organic matter or soil pH, followed by the distance from highway and wind direction. Our findings have important implications for the environmental assessment and crop planning for food security along the highway.
22527521	Photoperiod and temperature are two pivotal regulatory factors of plant flowering. The floral transition of plants depends on accurate measurement of changes in photoperiod and temperature. The flowering time of rice (Oryza sativa) as a facultative short-day (SD) plant is delayed under long-day (LD) and/or low temperature conditions. To elucidate the regulatory functions of photoperiod and temperature on flowering time in rice, we systematically analyzed the expression and regulation of several key genes (Hd3a, RFT1, Ehd1, Ghd7, RID1/Ehd2/OsId1, Se5) involved in the photoperiodic flowering regulatory pathway under different temperature and photoperiod treatments using a photoperiod-insensitive mutant and wild type plants. Our results indicate that the Ehd1-Hd3a/RFT1 pathway is common to and conserved in both the photoperiodic and temperature flowering regulatory pathways. Expression of Ehd1, Hd3a and RFT1 is dramatically reduced at low temperature (23°C), suggesting that suppression of Ehd1, Hd3a and RFT1 transcription is an essential cause of delayed flowering under low temperature condition. Under LD condition, Ghd7 mRNA levels are promoted at low temperature (23°C) compared with normal temperature condition (28°C), suggesting low temperature and LD treatment have a synergistic role in the expression of Ghd7. Therefore, upregulation of Ghd7 might be a crucial cause of delayed flowering under low temperature condition. We also analyzed Hd1 regulatory relationships in the photoperiodic flowering pathway, and found that Hd1 can negatively regulate Ehd1 transcription under LD condition. In addition, Hd1 can also positively regulate Ghd7 transcription under LD condition, suggesting that the heading-date of rice under LD condition is also regulated by the Hd1-Ghd7-Ehd1-RFT1 pathway.
22527842	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a typical Si-accumulating plant and is able to accumulate Si up to >10 % of shoot dry weight. The cell wall has been reported to become thicker under Si-deficient condition. To clarify the relationship between Si accumulation and cell wall components, the physical properties of, and macromolecular components and Si content in, the pectic, hemicellulosic, and cellulosic fractions prepared from rice seedlings grown in hydroponics with or without 1.5 mM silicic acid were analyzed. In the absence of Si (the -Si condition), leaf blades drooped, but physical properties were enhanced. Sugar content in the cellulosic fraction and lignin content in the total cell wall increased under -Si condition. After histochemical staining, there was an increase in cellulose deposition in short cells and the cell layer just beneath the epidermis in the -Si condition, but no significant change in the pattern of lignin deposition. Expression of the genes involved in secondary cell wall synthesis, OsCesA4, OsCesA7, OsPAL, OsCCR1 and OsCAD6 was up-regulated under -Si condition, but expression of OsCesA1, involved in primary cell wall synthesis, did not increase. These results suggest that an increase in secondary cell wall components occurs in rice leaves to compensate for Si deficiency.
22528534	We aimed to evaluate the effects of diets, based on elephant grass or sugarcane as roughage and corn meal or rice bran as energy concentrate, on performance and body composition in terms of diet intake and digestibility. A total of 30 Santa Ines crossbreds (SIC), castrated male sheep with 19.8 ± 2.0 kg initial body weight (BW) were used. Six animals were slaughtered at the onset of the experiment to estimate the initial body composition for the other animals. The remaining 24 animals were distributed in a completely randomized 2 × 2 factorial design, with four treatments (two roughages and two concentrates) and six replicates. The sheep were slaughtered when they reached 30.0 kg BW. Elephant grass diets provided higher intake and digestibility than sugarcane diets for the following contents: dry matter (DM), organic matter (OM), crude protein (CP), neutral detergent fibre, minerals, total carbohydrates (TC), and total digestible nutrients (TDN). Among the concentrates, corn meal diets were associated with higher intakes than rice bran diets for the following contents: DM, OM, CP, TC, and TDN. Animals from all of the treatments exhibited low average daily weight gain and low protein and high fat and energy body levels. Sugarcane and rice bran can be used as ingredients in diets for sheep with low weight gain potential. Regardless of roughage or concentrate types used in diets for confined SIC sheep, performance and body composition remained unaltered.
22528669	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by plant NADPH oxidases (NOXes) are important in plant innate immunity. The Oryza sativa respiratory burst oxidase homologue B (OsRbohB) gene encodes a NOX the regulatory mechanisms of which are largely unknown. Here, we used a heterologous expression system to demonstrate that OsRbohB shows ROS-producing activity. Treatment with ionomycin, a Ca(2+) ionophore, and calyculin A, a protein phosphatase inhibitor, activated ROS-producing activity; it was thus OsRbohB activated by both Ca(2+) and protein phosphorylation. Mutation analyses revealed that not only the first EF-hand motif but also the upstream amino-terminal region were necessary for Ca(2+)-dependent activation, while these regions are not required for phosphorylation-induced ROS production.
22528997	The wastewater discharged from leather industries lack biodegradability due to the presence of xenobiotic compounds. The primary clarification and aerobic treatment in Bacillus sp. immobilized Chemo Autotrophic Activated Carbon Oxidation (CAACO) reactor removed considerable amount of pollution parameters. The residual untreated organics in the wastewater was further treated in algal batch reactor inoculated with Synechocystis sp. Sodium nitrate, K(2)HPO(4), MgSO(4).7H(2)O, NH(4)Cl, CaCl(2)·2H(2)O, FeCl(3) (anhydrous), and thiamine hydrochloride, rice husk based activated carbon (RHAC), immobilization of Bacillus sp. in mesoporous activated carbon, sand filter of dimensions diameter, 6 cm and height, 30 cm; and the CAACO reactor of dimensions diameter, 5.5 cm and height, 30 cm with total volume 720 ml, and working volume of 356 ml. In the present investigation, the CAACO treated tannery wastewater was applied to Synechocystis sp. inoculated algal batch reactor of hydraulic residence time 24 h. The BOD(5), COD, and TOC of treated wastewater from algal batch reactor were 20 ± 7, 167 ± 29, and 78 ± 16 mg/l respectively. The integrated CAACO system and Algal batch reactor was operated for 30 days and they accomplished a cumulative removal of BOD(5),COD, TOC, VFA and sulphide as 98 %, 95 %, 93 %, 86 %, and 100 %, respectively. The biokinetic constants for the growth of algae in the batch reactor were specific growth rate, 0.095(day(-1)) and yield coefficient, 3.15 mg of algal biomass/mg of COD destructed. The degradation of xenobiotic compounds in the algal batch reactor was confirmed through HPLC and FT-IR techniques. The integrated CAACO-Algal reactor system established a credible reduction in pollution parameters in the tannery wastewater. The removal mechanism is mainly due to co-metabolism between algae and bacterial species and the organics were completely metabolized rather than by adsorption.
22529386	Plants must effectively defend against biotic and abiotic stresses to survive in nature. However, this defense is costly and is often accompanied by significant growth inhibition. How plants coordinate the fluctuating growth-defense dynamics is not well understood and remains a fundamental question. Jasmonate (JA) and gibberellic acid (GA) are important plant hormones that mediate defense and growth, respectively. Binding of bioactive JA or GA ligands to cognate receptors leads to proteasome-dependent degradation of specific transcriptional repressors (the JAZ or DELLA family of proteins), which, at the resting state, represses cognate transcription factors involved in defense (e.g., MYCs) or growth [e.g. phytochrome interacting factors (PIFs)]. In this study, we found that the coi1 JA receptor mutants of rice (a domesticated monocot crop) and Arabidopsis (a model dicot plant) both exhibit hallmark phenotypes of GA-hypersensitive mutants. JA delays GA-mediated DELLA protein degradation, and the della mutant is less sensitive to JA for growth inhibition. Overexpression of a selected group of JAZ repressors in Arabidopsis plants partially phenocopies GA-associated phenotypes of the coi1 mutant, and JAZ9 inhibits RGA (a DELLA protein) interaction with transcription factor PIF3. Importantly, the pif quadruple (pifq) mutant no longer responds to JA-induced growth inhibition, and overexpression of PIF3 could partially overcome JA-induced growth inhibition. Thus, a molecular cascade involving the COI1-JAZ-DELLA-PIF signaling module, by which angiosperm plants prioritize JA-mediated defense over growth, has been elucidated.
22530002	Methanocellales contributes significantly to anthropogenic methane emissions that cause global warming, but few pure cultures for Methanocellales are available to permit subsequent laboratory studies (physiology, biochemistry, etc.). By combining anaerobic culture and molecular techniques, a novel thermophilic methanogen, strain HZ254(T) was isolated from a Chinese rice field soil located in Hangzhou, China. The phylogenetic analyses of both the 16S rRNA gene and mcrA gene (encoding the α subunit of methyl-coenzyme M reductase) confirmed its affiliation with Methanocellales, and Methanocella paludicola SANAE(T) was the most closely related species. Cells were non-motile rods, albeit with a flagellum, 1.4-2.8 µm long and by 0.2-0.3 µm in width. They grew at 37-60 °C (optimally at 55 °C) and salinity of 0-5 g NaCl l(-1) (optimally at 0-1 g NaCl l(-1)). The pH range for growth was 6.4-7.2 (optimum 6.8). Under the optimum growth condition, the doubling time was 6.5-7.8 h, which is the shortest ever observed in Methanocellales. Strain HZ254(T) utilized H(2)/CO(2) but not formate for growth and methane production. The DNA G+C content of this organism was 52.7 mol%. The sequence identities of 16S rRNA gene and mcrA gene between strain HZ254(T) and SANAE(T) were 95.0 and 87.5% respectively, and the genome based Average Nucleotide Identity value between them was 74.8%. These two strains differed in phenotypic features with regard to substrate utilization, possession of a flagellum, doubling time (under optimal conditions), NaCl and temperature ranges. Taking account of the phenotypic and phylogenetic characteristics, we propose strain HZ254(T) as a representative of a novel species, Methanocella conradii sp. nov. The type strain is HZ254(T) (= CGMCC 1.5162(T) = JCM 17849(T) = DSM 24694(T)). Strain HZ254(T) could potentially serve as an excellent laboratory model for studying Methanocellales due to its fast growth and consistent cultivability.
22530555	This research focuses on the overall extraction process of alkylresorcinols (ARs) from uncooked grains and baked products that have been processed with wheat, corn, rice, and white flour. Previously established extraction methods developed by Ross and colleagues, as well as a semiautomated method involving accelerated solvent extraction (ASE), were applied to extract ARs within freshly ground samples. For extraction of alkylresorcinols, nonpolar solvents such as ethyl acetate have been recommended for the extraction of uncooked foods, and polar solvents such as 1-propanol:water (3:1 v/v) have been recommended for the extraction of baked foods that contain rye, wheat, or other starch-rich grains. A comparison of AR extraction methods has been investigated with the application of gas chromatography and a flame ionization detector (GC-FID) to quantify the AR content. The goal of this research was to compare the rapid accelerated solvent extraction of the alkylresorcinols (ASE-AR) method to the previous manual AR extraction methods. Results for this study as well as the investigation of the overall efficiency of ASE-AR extraction with the use of a spiking study indicated that it can be comparable to current extraction methods but with less time required. Furthermore, the extraction time for ASE (approximately 40 min) is much more convenient and less tedious and time-consuming than previously established methods, which range from 5 h for processed foods to 24 h for raw grains.
22530593	The nuclear-encoded chloroplast small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) are present in all plant species from algae to angiosperms. Expression analysis shows that the wheat chloroplastic sHSP (HSP26) is highly inducible by heat stress in almost all the vegetative and generative tissues and is also expressed constitutively in certain developmental growth stages. We characterize wheat chloroplastic sHSP 26 through transgenic approach using Arabidopsis and report cloning of the promoter and its characterization. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were substantially tolerant under continuous high temperature regimen than wild-type plants, as measured by photosystem II (PSII) activity, accumulation of more photosynthetic pigments, higher biomass and seed yield. Transgenic plants produced bold seeds under high temperature, having higher germination potential than the wild-type plants. Further, antisense Arabidopsis plants showed negligible tolerance even for non-lethal heat shock, impaired in basal thermo-tolerance, and accumulated less biomass and seed yield under normal growth conditions. Promoter analysis revealed the presence of several heat and other abiotic stress responsive cis-acting elements along with developmental stage and tissue-specific elements. Analysis of promoter through GUS reporter system in both transgenic rice and Arabidopsis further confirms the role of chloroplastic sHsp26 in heat and other abiotic stresses as well as during seed maturation and germination. Genome-wide expression analysis of overexpression Arabidopsis plants revealed that the transcriptome remained unchanged in the transgenic plants and the tolerance was due to the overexpression of chloroplastic heat shock protein (HSP) only.
22530947	In this study, we performed NMR-based metabolic profiling of major rice wines (Japanese sake, Chinese Shaoxing wine, and Korean makgeolli). In the (1)H NMR spectra, the rice wines showed broad resonances in the region of about 7.9-9.0 ppm. These resonances showed many and complex correlations with approximately 0.5-4.5 ppm in the F(2)-selective TOCSY (total correlation spectroscopy) spectra, and these correlations were attributed mainly to peptides. These spectral patterns were characteristic of individual rice wines, and the combination of F(2)-selective TOCSY spectra and principal component analysis enabled us to classify the rice wine species. Furthermore, it also provided information about raw materials, namely, what type of koji (rice koji or wheat koji) was used. These spectra may be useful as a new "fingerprint" for quality control or food authentication.
22531006	Elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. It is estimated that 42% of females and 34% of males in the USA have elevated total cholesterol. The current mainstay of lipid-lowering therapy utilizes 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (i.e., statin) medications that lower total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol by an average of 20% and 28%, respectively. However, due to the significant side effects of statin medications, many patients seek alternative therapies to help manage their hypercholesterolemia. Red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus) has been used as a food and as an herbal medication in China for centuries. Phytosterols are foods that are similar in structure and function to animal cholesterol. Both of these compounds have been shown in clinical studies to significantly lower LDL cholesterol. We report on a case series of 18 patients with hypercholesterolemia despite therapeutic lifestyle change through diet and exercise who took a proprietary product combining red yeast rice and phytosterols as a powdered shake in an effort to improve their cholesterol indices. Statistically significant reduction (p < .05) in the following mean variables was seen: total cholesterol 19% (46 mg/dL) and LDL 33% (53 mg/dL) after 6 weeks using the blend. There was no significant difference in body mass index (BMI), triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, or systolic and diastolic blood pressure over the same period. This magnitude of reduction in LDL cholesterol is significantly greater than the 28% reduction observed in the 1999 Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) meta-analysis on the average effectiveness of statin medications in lowering cholesterol levels. None of the participants in our study reported any muscle pains, and no abnormal liver function tests were seen while taking the product. Though this case series is limited by small sample size, study duration, and lack of control group, the product's significant reduction in LDL cholesterol without severe side effects indicates that this product may be a clinically effective and well tolerated alternative treatment to using statin medications to treat hypercholesterolemia.
22531051	Rice Bran Oil contains a variety of Unsaponifiable Constituents (USC) that are presumed to contribute to the high value of Unsaponifable Matter (USM). The objectives of the present study were to identify and quantify the constituents in USM. The changes that the unsaponifiables undergo during saponification were also quantitatively investigated. While analyzing the percentage of all constituents, the percentage of sterol get increased from 22.46 to 23.77 in USM of crude rice bran oil (CRBO) and 33.42 to 36.79 in USM of refined rice bran oil (RRBO). Oryzanol that comprised 34% of the unsaponifiable in the crude oil by direct estimation was almost eliminated in USM and same in refined oil. The results also revealed the presence of four additional classes of compounds that were quantified in USM (policosanol, fatty aldehydes, triterpene alcohols and potassium salt of oryzanols). Among the four classes of compounds, policosanol contributed high percentage in USM, (43.39% in CRBO and 28.46% in RRBO). Fatty aldehydes, triterpene alcohols and potassium salt of oryzanols together contributed 27.68% and 25.13% of USM from CRBO and RRBO respectively. The HPTLC method employed here thus, accounted for 96.75% by wt of the USM of CRBO and 92.00% by wt of the USM of RRBO.
22531935	Two aromatic rice genotypes, Pusa Basmati 1 (PB1) and Kalanamak 3119 (KN3119) having 120 and 30 kg/ha optimum nitrogen requirement respectively, to produce optimal yield, were chosen to understand their differential nitrogen responsiveness. Both the genotypes grown under increasing nitrogen inputs showed differences in seed/panicle, 1,000 seed weight, %nitrogen in the biomass and protein content in the seeds. All these parameters in PB1 were found to be in the increasing order in contrast to KN3119 which showed declined response on increasing nitrogen dose exceeding the normal dose indicating that both the genotypes respond differentially to the nitrogen inputs. Gene expression analysis of members of ammonium transporter gene family in flag leaves during active grain filling stage revealed that all the three members of OsAMT3 family genes (OsAMT1;1-3), only one member of OsAMT2 family i.e., OsAMT2;3 and the high affinity OsAMT1;1 were differentially expressed and were affected by different doses of nitrogen. In both the genotypes, both increase and decline in seed protein contents matched with the expressions levels of OsAMT1;1, OsGS1;1 and OsGS1;2 in the flag leaves during grain filling stage indicating that high nitrogen nutrition in KN3119 probably causes the repression of these genes which might be important during grain filling.
22534193	Fragrance rice (Oryza sativa) contains two isoforms of BADH, named OsBADH1 and OsBADH2. OsBADH1 is implicated in acetaldehyde oxidation in rice plant peroxisomes, while the non-functional OsBADH2 is believed to be involved in the accumulation of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, the major compound of aroma in fragrance rice. In the present study, site-directed mutagenesis, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation studies were used to investigate the substrate specificity towards Bet-ald and GAB-ald. Consistent with our previous study, kinetics data indicated that the enzymes catalyze the oxidation of GAB-ald more efficiently than Bet-ald and the OsBADH1 W172F and OsBADH2 W170F mutants displayed a higher catalytic efficiency towards GAB-ald. Molecular docking analysis and molecular dynamics simulations for the first time provided models for aldehyde substrate-bound complexes of OsBADHs. The amino acid residues, E262, L263, C296 and W461 of OsBADH1 and E260, L261, C294 and W459 of OsBADH2 located within 5 Å of the OsBADH active site mainly interacted with GAB-ald forming strong hydrogen bonds in both OsBADH isoforms. Residues W163, N164, Q294, C296 and F397 of OsBADH1-Bet-ald and Y163, M167, W170, E260, S295 and C453 of OsBADH2-Bet-ald formed the main interaction sites while E260 showed an interaction energy of -14.21 kcal/mol. Unconserved A290 in OsBADH1 and W288 in OsBADH2 appeared to be important for substrate recognition similar to that observed in PsAMADHs. Overall, the results here help to explain how two homologous rice BADHs recognize the aldehyde substrate differently, a key property to their biological role.
22534197	Density functional theory (DFT) and ab initio method are employed to elucidate the mechanisms for O(3)-initiated oxidation of n-butyl vinyl ether (n-BVE) and its isomers (i-BVE and t-BVE). For each BVE, the reactions proceed via O(3) cycloaddition resulting in the formation of primary ozonides (POZs) and then two self-decomposition pathways of POZs are followed. Major products are identified to be formaldehyde and butyl formates (CH(3)CH(2)CH(2)CH(2)OCHO for n-BVE, (CH(3))(2)CHCH(2)OCHO for i-BVE and (CH(3))(3)COCHO for t-BVE). The total and individual rate constants for main product channels have been calculated using the modified multichannel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) approach. At 298 K and 101 kPa, the calculated total rate constants are 2.50×10(-16), 3.41×10(-16) and 4.17×10(-16) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) for n-BVE+O(3), i-BVE+O(3) and t-BVE+O(3), respectively, which are in perfect agreement with experimental results. The total rate coefficients are almost pressure independent in the range of 0.001-101 kPa but obviously positive temperature dependent over the whole study temperature range (200-400 K). Also, the favorable reaction pathways have been determined through the estimation of branching ratios. Moreover, the influence of alkoxy group structure on the reactivity of vinyl ethers was examined.
22534299	LAB were isolated from makgeolli locally produced around Jinju, Gyeongnam, S. Korea during spring of 2011. Randomly selected 11 isolates from MRS agar plates were identified first by API CHL 50 kits and then 16S rRNA gene sequencing. All 11 isolates were identified as Lactobacillus plantarum. Among them, ST4 grew in MRS broth with ethanol up to 10%, showing the highest alcohol resistance. L. plantarum ST4 was moderately resistant against acid and bile salts. When cellular proteins of L. plantarum ST4 under ethanol stress were analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE), the intensities of 6 spots increased, whereas 22 spots decreased at least 2-fold. Those 28 spots were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF). FusA2 (elongation factor G) increased 18.8-fold (6% ethanol) compared with control. Other proteins were AtpD (ATP synthase subunit beta), DnaK, GroEL, Tuf (elongation factor Tu), and Npr2 (NADH peroxidase), respectively. Among the 22 proteins decreased in intensities, lactate dehydrogenases (LdhD and LdhL1) were included.
22534354	Fusarium proliferatum is a plant pathogenic fungus associated with crops such as asparagus and corn, and it possesses the ability to produce a range of mycotoxins, including fumonisins. In Asia, rice (Oryza sativa) is a staple cereal and is occasionally colonized by this fungus without obvious physiological changes. F. proliferatum is closely related to Gibberella fujikuroi (anamorph F. fujikuroi) responsible for Bakanae disease in rice; however there are few reports of F. proliferatum as a rice pathogen. In this study, we examined the pathogenic potential of F. proliferatum in rice plants with respect to browning, fumonisin production, and survival rates in rice grains. Fungal inoculation was conducted by spraying a conidial suspension of F. proliferatum onto rice plants during the flowering period. Browning was found on the stalk, leaf, and ear of rice. Fumonisin B(1) was detected at levels from trace to 21 ng/g grains, using tandem mass spectrometry. Fungal recovery after 6 months indicated that F. proliferatum had high affinity to rice plants being still viable in grains. From this study, it can be concluded that F. proliferatum is a possible pathogen of rice and possesses a potential to produce fumonisin B(1) in rice grains in the field.
22534657	A new method based on matrix solid-phase dispersion (MSPD) coupled with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry has been developed for the determination of imidacloprid in rice. The molecularly imprinted polymers were synthesized and applied as the dispersant of MSPD for selective extraction of imidacloprid from rice, while interferences originated from sample matrices were eliminated simultaneously. The satisfactory recovery of imidacloprid was obtained by the optimized extraction conditions: 1:2 as the ratio of sample to MIPs; 8 min as the dispersion time; 20% aqueous methanol as washing solvent and methanol as elution solvent. Under the optimal conditions, the linearity of imidacloprid in rice sample was achieved in the range of 10-1000 ng/g, and limit of detection was 2.4 ng/g. The relative standard deviations of intra- and inter-day tests ranging from 4.5% to 5.9% and from 4.8% to 7.1% are obtained, respectively. The proposed method was applied to the determination of imidacloprid in eight rice samples with recoveries in the range of 83.8-92.5%.
22535942	Pseudomonas fuscovaginae was first reported as a pathogen of rice causing sheath rot in plants grown at high altitudes. P. fuscovaginae is now considered a broad-host-range plant pathogen causing disease in several economically important plants. We report what is, to our knowledge, the first draft genome sequence of a P. fuscovaginae strain.
22537016	• Arsenic (As) contamination of rice (Oryza sativa) is a worldwide concern and elucidating the molecular mechanisms of As accumulation in rice may provide promising solutions to the problem. Previous studies using microarray techniques to investigate transcriptional regulation of plant responses to As stress have identified numerous differentially expressed genes. However, little is known about the metabolic and regulatory network remodelings, or their interactions with microRNA (miRNA) in plants upon As(III) exposure. • We used Illumina sequencing to acquire global transcriptome alterations and miRNA regulation in rice under As(III) treatments of varying lengths of time and dosages. • We found that the response of roots was more distinct when the dosage was varied, whereas that of shoots was more distinct when the treatment time was varied. In particular, the genes involved in heavy metal transportation, jasmonate (JA) biosynthesis and signaling, and lipid metabolism were closely related to responses of rice under As(III) stress. Furthermore, we discovered 36 new As(III)-responsive miRNAs, 14 of which were likely involved in regulating gene expression in transportation, signaling, and metabolism. • Our findings highlight the significance of JA signaling and lipid metabolism in response to As(III) stress and their regulation by miRNA, which provides a foundation for subsequent functional research.
22537402	Ethanol was produced at pilot scale from rice straw hydrolysates using a Pichia stipitis strain previously adapted to NaOH-neutralized hydrolysates. The highest ethanol yield was 0.44 ± 0.02 g(p)/g(s) at an aeration rate of 0.05 vvm using overliming-detoxified hydrolysates. The yield with hydrolysates conditioned by ammonia and NaOH was 0.39 ± 0.01 and 0.34 ± 0.01 g(p)/g(s), respectively, were achieved at the same aeration rate. The actual ethanol yield from hydrolysate fermentation with ammonia neutralization was similar to that with overliming hydrolysate after taking into account the xylose loss resulting from these conditioning processes. Moreover, the ethanol yield from ammonia-neutralized hydrolysates could be further enhanced by increasing the initial cell density by two-fold or reducing the combined concentration of furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural to 0.6g/L by reducing the severity of operational conditions in pretreatment. This study demonstrated the potential for commercial ethanol production from rice straw via xylose fermentation.
22537758	Polycomb group (PcG) proteins regulate major developmental processes in Arabidopsis. EMBRYONIC FLOWER 2 (EMF2), the VEFS domain-containing PcG gene, regulates diverse genetic pathways and is required for vegetative development and plant survival. Despite widespread EMF2-like sequences in plants, little is known about their function other than in Arabidopsis and rice. To study the role of EMF2 in broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica cv. Elegance) development, we identified two broccoli EMF2 (BoEMF2) genes with sequence homology to and a similar gene expression pattern to that in Arabidopsis (AtEMF2). Reducing their expression in broccoli resulted in aberrant phenotypes and gene expression patterns. BoEMF2 regulates genes involved in diverse developmental and stress programs similar to AtEMF2 in Arabidopsis. However, BoEMF2 differs from AtEMF2 in the regulation of flower organ identity, cell proliferation and elongation, and death-related genes, which may explain the distinct phenotypes. The expression of BoEMF2.1 in the Arabidopsis emf2 mutant (Rescued emf2) partially rescued the mutant phenotype and restored the gene expression pattern to that of the wild type. Many EMF2-mediated molecular and developmental functions are conserved in broccoli and Arabidopsis. Furthermore, the restored gene expression pattern in Rescued emf2 provides insights into the molecular basis of PcG-mediated growth and development.
22538224	Indica rice cultivar IR64 is most recalcitrant to regenerate, which affects the transformation efficiency especially when mature seed-derived callus tissues are used as explants. Therefore, a simple, rapid and improved genetic transformation protocol has been developed for the indica rice cultivar IR64 using Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation. With different hormonal combination tested, the maximum callus induction was observed on MS medium supplemented with 2.5 mg/l 2,4-D and 0.15 mg/l BAP from the scutellum explants. Three weeks old scutellum derived callus explants were immersed in Agrobacterium suspension (strain LBA4404, OD600=1.0) and co-cultured at 26±2°C in dark for 2 d. The maximum transformation efficiency (12%) was achieved with infection of callus explants for 20 min along with use of 150 μm acetosyringone. The maximum plant regeneration was observed on MS medium supplemented with 3 mg/l BAP, 1 mg/l Kinetin and 0.5 mg/l NAA. The maximum root induction was observed on MS medium along with 10 g/l glucose and 20 g/l sucrose. The integration of the transgene in T1 transgenic plants was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analyses. The copy number of transgenes has been found to vary from 1 to 2 in transgenic plants. By using this improved method we have successfully raised transgenic rice plants within 3 mo from seed inoculation to plant regeneration.
22538655	The target pathogen Villosiclava virens (teleomorph: claviceps oryzae-sativae) was isolated from the infected rice, where it caused false smut. In our study, the forming processes of the chlamydospores, chlamydospore balls, conidiospores, and secondary conidiospores during the asexual reproduction were observed more precisely and in greater detail than previous descriptions. The microstructure of the infected rice kernel showed that the outer dense chlamydospores piled around the false smut balls grown on XBZ medium; moreover the sclerotia consisting of dense mycelium were found. The different morphology was observed across the different growing conditions. In addition, we observed the nuclear numbers of both the conidiospores and hyphae using 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining. Because the fungus has small chromosomes and the numbers were not previously known, we analyzed the electrophoretic karyotype using a pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) technique. The results showed that V. virens has at least 10 chromosomes ranging in size from 0.6 kb to 6 Mb. The V. virens genome size is estimated to be 23 Mb. Here, we report the morphological characteristics of the fungus and the process of asexual spores forming asexual propagules, along with the first analyze the molecular karyotype of V. virens. These results supply a foundation for further study of the pathogenicity and biology of this devastating pathogen.
22538984	Use of cheap, nontoxic, and selective solvents could economically provide a solution to the recovery of carboxylic acids produced by the bioroute. In this regard in the present paper, reactive extraction of citric acid was studied. Problems encompassing the recovery of the acid ([H(3)A](aq)(o) = 0.1-0.8) was solved by using tertiary amine (tri-n-octylamine, TOA) in natural diluents (rice bran oil, sunflower oil, soybean oil, and sesame oil). TOA was very effective in removal of acid providing distribution coefficient (D) as high as 18.51 (E% = 95%), 12.82 (E% = 93%), 15.09 (E% = 94%), and 16.28 (E% = 94%) when used with rice bran oil, sunflower oil, soybean oil, and sesame oil, respectively. Overall extraction constants and association numbers for TOA + rice bran oil, TOA + sunflower oil, TOA + soybean oil, and TOA + sesame oil were evaluated to be 35.48 (mol/l)(-1.46), 29.79 (mol/l)(-1.30), 33.79 (mol/l)(-1.51), and 37.64 (mol/l)(-1.65) and 1.46, 1.30, 1.51, and 1.65, respectively. Specific equilibrium complexation constants (K (E(n/m))) were also predicted using mathematical modeling.
22539195	A general assembly approach is developed to construct hierarchically tunable helical superstructures from an achiral porphyrin-incorporated alkoxysilane. The resulting superstructures can be controlled from film, rice, spindle, ribbon, to fiber in morphology and from nonhelical to helical in structure at a multiscale with excellent optoelectronic, electrical, and thermal properties.
22539316	The plant embryo is the germination center of the seed. How an embryo forms during seed maturation remains unclear, especially in the case of monocotyledonous plants. Generally, the complex processes of embryogenesis result from the action of a coordinated network of genes. Thus, a large-scale survey of changes in protein abundance during embryogenesis is an effective approach to study the molecular events of embryogenesis. In this study, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) was applied to separate rice embryo proteins collected during the three phases of embryogenesis: 6 days after pollination (DAP), 12 DAP, and 18 DAP. We then employed matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization time of flight/time of flight mass spectrometry(MALDI TOF/TOF MS) to identify the phase-dependent differential 2DE spots. A total of 66 spots were discovered to be regulated during embryogenesis, and of these spots, 53 spots were identified. These proteins were further categorized into several functional classes, including storage, embryo development, stress response, glycolysis, and protein metabolism. Intriguingly, the major differential spots originated from three globulins. We further examined the possible mechanism underlying the globulins' multiple forms using Western blotting, proteolysis, and blue native gel electrophoresis techniques and found that the multiple forms of globulins were produced as a result of enhanced proteolysis during embryogenesis, indicating that these globulin forms may serve as chaperone proteins participating in the formation of multiple protein complexes during embryogenesis.
22539437	Mechanisms of drought tolerance are complex, interacting, and polygenic. This paper describes patterns of gene expression at precise physiological stages of drought in 35-day-old seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare. Drought was imposed gradually for up to 15 days, causing abscisic acid levels to rise and growth to cease, and plants were then re-watered. Proteins were identified from leaf samples after moderate drought, extreme drought, and 3 and 6 days of re-watering. Label-free quantitative shotgun proteomics resulted in identification of 1548 non-redundant proteins. More proteins were down-regulated in early stages of drought but more were up-regulated as severe drought developed. After re-watering, there was notable down regulation, suggesting that stress-related proteins were being degraded. Proteins involved in signalling and transport became dominant as severe drought took hold but decreased again on re-watering. Most of the nine aquaporins identified were responsive to drought, with six decreasing rapidly in abundance as plants were re-watered. Nine G-proteins appeared in large amounts during severe drought and dramatically degraded once plants were re-watered. We speculate that water transport and drought signalling are critical elements of the overall response to drought in rice and might be the key to biotechnological approaches to drought tolerance.
22539438	Magnaporthe oryzae is a devastating blast fungal pathogen of rice (Oryza sativa L.) that causes dramatic decreases in seed yield and quality. During the early stages of infection by this pathogen, the fungal spore senses the rice leaf surface, germinates, and penetrates the cell via an infectious structure known as an appressorium. During this process, M. oryzae secretes several proteins; however, these proteins are largely unknown mainly due to the lack of a suitable method for isolating secreted proteins during germination and appressoria formation. We examined the secretome of M. oryzae by mimicking the early stages of infection in vitro using a glass plate (GP), PVDF membrane, and liquid culture medium (LCM). Microscopic observation of M. oryzae growth revealed appressorium formation on the GP and PVDF membrane resembling natural M. oryzae-rice interactions; however, appresorium formation was not observed in the LCM. Secreted proteins were collected from the GP (3, 8, and 24 h), PVDF membrane (24 h), and LCM (48 h) and identified by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) followed by tandem mass spectrometry. The GP, PVDF membrane, and LCM-derived 2D gels showed distinct protein patterns, indicating that they are complementary approaches. Collectively, 53 nonredundant proteins including previously known and novel secreted proteins were identified. Six biological functions were assigned to the proteins, with the predominant functional classes being cell wall modification, reactive oxygen species detoxification, lipid modification, metabolism, and protein modification. The in vitro system using GPs and PVDF membranes applied in this study to survey the M. oryzae secretome, can be used to further our understanding of the early interactions between M. oryzae and rice leaves.
22544260	The secondary metabolite mediating the GacS-dependent growth-inhibitory effect exerted by the rice rhizosphere isolate Pseudomonas putida RW10S2 on phytopathogenic Xanthomonas species was identified as white-line-inducing principle (WLIP), a member of the viscosin group of cyclic lipononadepsipeptides. WLIP producers are commonly referred to by the taxonomically invalid name "Pseudomonas reactans," based on their capacity to reveal the presence of a nearby colony of Pseudomonas tolaasii by inducing the formation of a visible precipitate ("white line") in agar medium between both colonies. This phenomenon is attributed to the interaction of WLIP with a cyclic lipopeptide of a distinct structural group, the fungitoxic tolaasin, and has found application as a diagnostic tool to identify tolaasin-producing bacteria pathogenic to mushrooms. The genes encoding the WLIP nonribosomal peptide synthetases WlpA, WlpB, and WlpC were identified in two separate genomic clusters (wlpR-wlpA and wlpBC) with an operon organization similar to that of the viscosin, massetolide, and entolysin biosynthetic systems. Expression of wlpR is dependent on gacS, and the encoded regulator of the LuxR family (WlpR) activates transcription of the biosynthetic genes and the linked export genes, which is not controlled by the RW10S2 quorum-sensing system PmrR/PmrI. In addition to linking the known phenotypes of white line production and hemolytic activity of a WLIP producer with WLIP biosynthesis, additional properties of ecological relevance conferred by WLIP production were identified, namely, antagonism against Xanthomonas and involvement in swarming and biofilm formation.
22544378	Pesticide residue monitoring was taken up at Kothapally and Enkepally villages of Ranga Reddy district, Andhra Pradesh in food crops (rice, maize, pigeonpea), vegetables (tomato and brinjal), cotton besides soil and water during 2008-2009 seasons. Of the 80 food crop and cotton samples, only two rice grain samples (3 %) showed beta endosulfan residues and two (3 %) out of 80 soil samples of food crops and cotton showed alpha and beta endosulfan residues. Out of 75 tomato samples, 26 (35 %) were contaminated and 4 % had residues above maximum residue limit (MRLs). Out of the 50 soil samples from tomato fields, 13 (26 %) contained residues. Among the 80 brinjal samples, 46 (56 %) contained residues and 4 % of samples had residues above MRLs. Only 13 % of the soil samples from brinjal fields were contaminated. Water samples found free from residues. In general the incidence of residues was below MRL in food crops.
22544477	Rice tungro disease is caused by a combination of two viruses: Rice tungro spherical virus and Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV). This study was performed with the objective to decipher the molecular variability and evolution of RTBV isolates present in the tungro-affected states of Indian subcontinent. Phylogenetic analysis based on ORF-I, ORF-II, and ORF-IV sequences showed distinct divergence of Indian RTBV isolates into two groups; one consisted isolates from Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh), Cuttack (Orissa), and Puducherry and another from West Bengal, Chinsura West Bengal, and Kanyakumari (Tamil Nadu). The results obtained from phylogenetic analysis were further supported with the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertion and deletion (INDELs) and evolutionary distance analysis. In addition, sequence difference count matrix revealed a maximum of 56 (ORF-I), 13 (ORF-II) and 73 (ORF-IV) nucleotides differences among all the Indian RTBV isolates taken in this study. However, at the protein level these differences were not significant as revealed by K (a)/K (s) ratio calculation. Sequence identity at nucleotide and amino acid level was 92-100 % (ORF-I), 96-100 % (ORF-II), 94-100 % (ORF-IV) and 86-100 % (ORF-I), 98-100 % (ORF-II) and 95-100 % (ORF-IV), respectively, among Indian isolates of RTBV. The divergence of RTBV isolates into two independent clusters of Indian and non-Indian was shown with the help of the data obtained from phylogeny, SNPs, and INDELs, evolutionary distance analysis, and conserved motifs analysis. The important role of ORF-I and ORF-IV in RTBV diversification and adaptation to different rice growing regions is also discussed.
22544639	To study the effects of and interactions among feed types, seasons, and agroecological zones on the total fungal viable count and aflatoxins B1 (AFB1), B2 (AFB2), G1 (AFG1), and G2 (AFG2) production in poultry feed, an experiment was conducted using three-factorial design. A total of 216 samples of poultry feed ingredients, viz. maize, wheat, rice, cotton seed meal (CSM), and finished products, that is, starter and finisher broilers' rations, were collected from Peshawar, Swat, and D. I. Khan districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, during the winter, spring, summer, and autumn seasons of the year 2007/2008. Analysis of variance showed that there was a complex interaction among all these factors and that this influenced the total fungal viable count and relative concentrations of the aflatoxins produced. Minimum total culturable fungi (6.43 × 10³ CFUs/g) were counted in CSM from D. I. Khan region in winter season while maximum (26.68 × 10³ CFUs/g) in starter ration from Peshawar region in summer. Maximum concentrations of AFB1 (191.65 ng/g), AFB2 (86.85 ng/g), and AFG2 (89.90 ng/g) were examined during the summer season whereas the concentration of AFG1 was maximum (167.82 ng/g) in autumn in finisher ration from Peshawar region. Minimum aflatoxins were produced in the winter season across all the three agroecological zones.
22544984	The chemical pesticide, imidacloprid (IMI) has long-lasting effectiveness against Hemiptera. IMI is commonly used to control the brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens Stål (Hemiptera: Delphacidae). Some chemical pesticides, however, can induce the susceptibility of rice to BPH, which has indirectly led to the resurgence of BPH. The mechanism of the chemical induction of the susceptibility of rice to BPH was not previously understood. Here, a 44 K Agilent Rice Expression Microarray was used to identify changes in gene expression that accompany IMI-induced rice susceptibility to BPH. The results showed that 225 genes were differentially expressed, of which 117 were upregulated, and 108 were downregulated. Gene ontology annotation and pathway analysis revealed that differentially expressed genes were mainly classified into the eight functional groups: oxidation reduction, regulation of cellular process, response to stress, electron carrier activity, metabolic process, transport, signal transducer, and organismal development. The genes encoding plant lipid transfer protein, lignin peroxidase, and flavonol-3-O-methyltransferenase may be important responses to the IMI-induced susceptibility of rice to BPH. The reliability of the microarray data was verified by performing quantitative real-time PCR and the data provide valuable information for further study of the molecular mechanism of IMI-induced susceptibility of rice.
22546559	Studies from flies and insects have reported the existence of a special class of miRNA, called mirtrons that are produced from spliced-out introns in a DROSHA-independent manner. The spliced-out lariat is debranched and refolded into a stem-loop structure resembling the pre-miRNA, which can then be processed by DICER into mature ~21 nt species. The mirtrons have not been reported from plants. In this study, we present MirtronPred, a web based server to predict mirtrons from intronic sequences. We have used the server to predict 70 mirtrons in rice introns that were put through a stringent selection filter to shortlist 16 best sequences. The prediction accuracy was subsequently validated by northern analysis and RT-PCR of a predicted Os-mirtron-109. The target sequences for this mirtron were also found in the rice degradome database. The possible role of the mirtron in rice regulon is discussed. The MirtronPred web server is available at http://bioinfo.icgeb.res.in/mirtronPred.
22546686	It has long been suggested that the essential and ubiquitous enzyme fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (FBP) aldolase could be a good drug target against bacteria and fungi, since lower organisms possess a metal-dependant (Class II) FBP aldolase, as opposed to higher organisms which possess a Schiff-base forming (Class I) FBP aldolase. We have tested the capacity of derivatives of the metal-chelating compound dipicolinic acid (DPA), as well a thiol-containing compound, to inhibit purified recombinant Class II FBP aldolases from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Bacillus cereus, Bacillus anthracis, and from the Rice Blast causative agent Magnaporthe grisea. The aldolase from M. tuberculosis was the most sensitive to the metal-chelating inhibitors, with an IC(50) of 5.2 μM with 2,3-dimercaptopropanesulfonate (DMPS) and 28 μM with DPA. DMPS and the synthesized inhibitor 6-(phosphonomethyl)picolinic acid inhibited the enzyme in a time-dependent, competitive fashion, with second order rate constants of 273 and 270 M(-1) s(-1) respectively for the binding of these compounds to the M. tuberculosis aldolase's active site in the presence of the substrate FBP (K(M) 27.9 μM). The most potent first generation inhibitors were modeled into the active site of the M. tuberculosis aldolase structure, with results indicating that the metal chelators tested cannot bind the catalytic zinc in a bidentate fashion while it remains in its catalytic location, and that most enzyme-ligand interactions involve the phosphate binding pocket residues.
22546786	Rice husk (RH) is a very effective natural adsorbent for fast removal of heavy metal cations from water solutions. Application of RH for removal of some heavy metal ions, such as Ni, Zn, Mn, Co, Cu, Pb and Cd from water solutions has been studied and different maximum adsorption capacities and a variety of optimized conditions were reported in the literature. In this work, the efficiency of RH harvested from different climatic regions was studied. For this proposal, different RH samples were collected from three different climatic regions of Iran (nominated as RH1 to RH3); their removal efficiencies of heavy metal cations of Ni(2+), Cu(2+) and Cd(2+) were investigated and compared. The adsorption data at optimum conditions could be assessed well by both Langmuir and Freundlich models. Statistical analysis of the results of adsorption isotherms showed that different RH samples have different efficiencies in uptake of these heavy metal ions. The RH samples were characterized using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and Boehm titration, which indicated that amounts of functional groups differed between RHs that are grown in different climatic conditions.
22546822	In the present study, we tested rice genotypes that included un(der)exploited landraces of Tamil Nadu along with indica and japonica test cultivars to ascertain their genetic diversity structure. Highly polymorphic microsatellite markers were used for generating marker segregation data. A novel measure, allele discrimination index, was used to determine subpopulation differentiation power of each marker. Phenotypic data were collected for yield and component traits. Pattern of molecular differentiation separated indica and japonica genotypes; indica genotypes had two subpopulations within. Landraces were found to have indica genome, but formed a separate subgroup with low linkage disequilibrium. The landraces further separated into distinct group in both hierarchical clustering analysis using neighbour-joining method as well as in the model based population structure analysis. Japonica and the remaining indica cultivars formed two other distinct groups. Linkage disequilibrium observed in the whole population was considerably reduced in subpopulations. Low linkage disequilibrium of landforms suggests their narrow adaptation in local geographical niche. Many population specific alleles could be identified particularly for japonica cultivars and landraces. Association analysis revealed nine marker-trait associations with three agronomic traits, of which 67% were previously reported. Although the testing landraces together with known cultivars had permitted genomewide association mapping, the experiment offers scope to study more landraces collected from the entire geographical region for drawing more reliable information.
22547659	The year 2012 marks the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's first botanical book, on the fertilization of orchids (1862), wherein he described pollen grains and outlined his evolutionary principles with respect to plant research. Five decades later, the growth-promoting effect of extracts of Orchid pollen on coleoptile elongation was documented. These studies led to the discovery of a new class of phytohormones, the brassinosteroids (BRs) that were isolated from rapeseed (Brassica napus) pollen. These growth-promoting steroids, which regulate height, fertility, and seed-filling in crop plants such as rice (Oryza sativa), also induce stress- and disease resistance in green algae and angiosperms. The origin and current status of BR-research is described here, with reference to BR-action and -signal transduction, and it is shown that modern high-yield rice varieties with erect leaves are deficient in endogenous BRs. Since brassinosteroids induce pathogen resistance in rice plants and hence can suppress rice blast- and bacterial blight-diseases, genetic manipulation of BR-biosynthesis or -perception may be a means to increase crop production. Basic research on BR activity in plants, such as Arabidopsis and rice, has the potential to increase crop yields further as part of a 21th century 'green biotech-revolution' that can be traced back to Darwin's classical breeding experiments. It is concluded that 'Nothing in brassinosteroid research makes sense except in the light of Darwinian evolution' and the value of basic science is highlighted, with reference to the genetic engineering of better food crops that may become resistant to a variety of plant diseases.
22548231	Leaf senescence is a complex and highly organized process resulting in numerous changes of gene expression and metabolic procedures. However, the exact mechanisms underlying these changes are not well understood. In this study, we reported a rice (Oryza sativa) T-DNA insertion mutant impaired in an Abc1 kinase family gene with a dwarf and pale-green phenotype. The mutant showed reduced pigment content and photosynthetic efficiency and increased superoxide dismutase activity in leaves. The mutated gene, designated OsABC1-2, is expressed primarily in green tissues and/or organs and encodes a protein localized in chloroplast envelope. Expression of the gene was drastically suppressed by dark treatment. Overexpression of the gene in rice enhanced tolerance to prolonged dark-induced stress. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the plant Abc1 proteins could be divided into three subgroups and OsAbc1-2 resides in a subgroup with potential chloroplast origin. Our results suggest that divergence has occurred among plant Abc1 family and chloroplast Abc1 kinases play potential roles in regulating dark-induced senescence of plants.
22548236	The BURP-domain protein family comprises a diverse group of plant-specific proteins that share a conserved BURP domain at the C terminus. However, there have been only limited studies on the functions and subcellular localization of these proteins. Members of the RD22-like subfamily are postulated to associate with stress responses due to the stress-inducible nature of some RD22-like genes. In this report, we used different transgenic systems (cells and in planta) to show that the expression of a stress-inducible RD22-like protein from soybean (GmRD22) can alleviate salinity and osmotic stress. We also performed detailed microscopic studies using both fusion proteins and immuno-electron microscopic techniques to demonstrate the apoplast localization of GmRD22, for which the BURP domain is a critical determinant of the subcellular localization. The apoplastic GmRD22 interacts with a cell wall peroxidase and the ectopic expression of GmRD22 in both transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana and transgenic rice resulted in increased lignin production when subjected to salinity stress. It is possible that GmRD22 regulates cell wall peroxidases and hence strengthens cell wall integrity under such stress conditions.
22548273	Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient for plants and humans. Cadmium (Cd) is a Zn analog and one of the most toxic heavy metals to humans. Here we investigated the role of the Zn/Cd transporter OsHMA2. OsHMA2:GFP fusion protein localized to the plasma membrane in onion epidermal cells. The yeast expressing OsHMA2 was able to reverse the growth defect in the presence of excess Zn. The expression of OsHMA2 in rice was observed mainly in the roots where OsHMA2 transcripts were abundant in vascular bundles. Furthermore, Zn and Cd concentrations of OsHMA2-suppressed rice decreased in the leaves, while the Zn concentration increased in the roots compared with the wild type (WT). These results suggest that OsHMA2 plays a role in Zn and Cd loading to the xylem and participates in root-to-shoot translocation of these metals in rice. Furthermore, the Cd concentration in the grains of OsHMA2-overexpressing rice as well as in OsSUT1-promoter OsHMA2 rice decreased to about half that of the WT, although the other metal concentrations were the same as in the WT. A phenotype that reduces only the Cd concentration in rice grains will be very useful for transgenic approaches to food safety.
22548420	To assess a single-semester university general education (GE) health and wellness course influence on physical activity (PA) and dietary habits among university students and to compare the course delivered through lecture or online for these outcomes. A 15-week intervention with pre-post one-group design, allowing for comparative assessments in dietary and PA habits across time by delivery method (classroom lecture vs. online). A large Western university. Participants (n = 1638, female; n = 1333, male) were 82% university freshman or sophomores. Participants were required to take a GE health and wellness course either by classroom lecture or online. The lecture and online curriculum content were similar. Participation in the study was entirely voluntary and was not connected to course grade. PA and dietary outcomes were determined from questions used in the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System survey and were assessed pre- and post-intervention. Other validated questions were used to assess fitness. The general linear model was utilized to determine group x period interactions when comparing the classroom lecture vs. online course. Students improved overall level of PA by 12%, daily minutes of moderate-intensity PA by 8%, and fitness level by 2%. Students improved fruit/vegetable consumption by 4%, bran/whole grain cereal consumption by 8%, and brown rice/whole wheat bread consumption by 11%. All improvements were statistically significant (p < .001) with percent values indicating the size of the effect. The classroom lecture course yielded stronger improvements in several PA and dietary outcomes than the online course. A single-semester university wellness course may positively influence multiple PA and dietary behaviors; however, classroom lecture may be superior to online delivery.
2254859	An attempt was made to identify the epizootiological features associated with Degnala disease occurring in the rice-growing areas of the Indian subcontinent and believed to be associated with mycotoxins. Epizootiological studies were made on disease outbreaks involving 370 herds from 136 villages of Haryana, India, during the years 1968 to 1978. They revealed that the disease, besides being seasonal and regional in occurrence, has a tendency to confine itself to a particular herd or field. All the disease outbreaks occurred during the winter and were associated with the feeding of rice straw. The incidence of the disease, varied from year to year, assuming serious proportions in certain years. The morbidity and mortality rates were 61.61% and 13.93%, respectively, in buffaloes and 13.49% and 2.41% in cattle, with no sex and age differences. Factors such as housing conditions of animals, shape of rice straw stacks, feeding practices, and use of pesticides and fertilizers had no bearing on the occurrence of the disease. Inadequate postharvest drying of rice plants before stacking and stacking at low-lying places or near water channels were the factors identified with occurrence of the disease. In the case of affected herds, 72.07% of the owners stacked rice straw immediately after harvesting, without allowing the plants to dry adequately, versus 10.60% of the owners of unaffected herds. Similarly, 72.97% of the farmers owning affected herds were found to stack rice straw either in low-lying areas or near canals and other water channels, versus 22.73% of the farmers of control herds.
22548847	For three decades we followed up for longevity indicators, including diet, arterial blood pressure, and body mass index 379 mobile, long-living persons from Croatia, now aged 70 to 92 years, of whom 167 men aged (78.6 ± 4.0) years and 212 women aged (77.9 ± 4.1) years. One hundred and ninety-five were from the continental and 184 from the coastal Croatia. The participants were examined in 1972, 1982, and again in 2006/7. Changes in body mass index (BMI), arterial blood pressure (ABP), and in answers to our Food Frequency Questionnaire about dietary habits were analysed using log-linear models. Over the last 24 years of aging (age 55 to 78 years) the subjects showed a statistically significant decrease in body mass and height and a significant increase in the systolic blood pressure. Diastolic blood pressure and BMI showed no significant changes over this period. Consumption of preserved and fresh meat, bread, and starch (potato, pastry and rice) dropped significantly with age, while the consumption of fish, fresh and cooked vegetables, fruit, and dairy products significantly increased. These dietary changes were not associated with changes in the systolic and diastolic ABP. About 80 % were overweight (BMI >25 kg m(-2)) throughout the follow-up, even though their body mass dropped significantly after the age of 55. However, their survival suggests that BMI may not be the best indicator of longevity or healthy aging.
22549048
22549067
22549069
22549721	In this study, an in vitro synthetic gastrointestinal extraction protocol was used to estimate bioaccessibility of different arsenicals present in 17 rice samples of various grain types that were collected across the United States. The across matrix average for total arsenic was 209 ng/g±153 (\[xmacr]±2σ). The bioaccessibility estimate produced an across matrix average of 61%±19 (\[xmacr]±2σ). The across matrix average concentrations of inorganic arsenic (iAs) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were 81 ng/g±67.7 and 41 ng/g±58.1 (\[xmacr]±2σ), respectively. This distribution of iAs concentrations in rice was combined with the distribution of consumption patterns (from WWEIA) in a Stochastic Human Exposure and Dose Simulator model to estimate population-based exposures. The mean consumption rate for the population as a whole was 15.7 g per day resulting in a 0.98 μg iAs per day exposure. The mean consumption rate for children 1-2 years old was 7 g per day resulting in a 0.48 μg iAs per day exposure. Presystemic biotransformation of DMA in rice was examined using an in vitro assay containing the anaerobic microbiota of mouse cecum. This assay indicated that DMA extracted from the rice was converted to dimethylthioarsinic acid, although a second oxygen-sulfur exchange to produce DMDTA was not observed.
22549902	The purpose of the present study was to evaluate nutritional and toxicological aspects of rice grown in fly ash amended soils. Rice was grown on soils with fly ash (200 t ha(-1)) and without fly ash at two different geographical locations of India. One kilogram each of 36 samples randomly collected from three replicates of rice grown with and without fly ash was subjected to various analytical techniques to determine the nutrient composition, mineral and heavy metal content. Moisture, protein and ash content of the rice samples showed no difference between fly ash treated and controls. Similar observations were also made on trace and heavy elements. Further, the rice grown on soils treated with fly ash was incorporated in the diet at 90% level and was fed to Wistar/NIN rats for 26 weeks for carrying out protein and toxicological evaluation. Results indicated that there is no difference between rice samples grown in soils with or without fly ash. Studies also clearly indicated that there were no adverse effects on hematological, biochemical or histopathological parameters when rice was fed to rats for 6 months. This indicates that rice grown on fly ash treated soils may be safe for human consumption.
22551250	In an initial investigation of differential expression of genes caused by cis-acting regulatory elements in rice, the lack of reproducibility led us to question the basic premise of allelic expression imbalance determination: namely that departures of cDNA expression ratios from those observed in genomic DNA provide unequivocal evidence of cis-acting polymorphisms. This paper describes experiments designed to demonstrate that stochastic variation in low copy number of targets in PCR reactions give variable allelic ratios even when starting with the same copy numbers of the two alleles. These significant departures from an expected 1:1 ratio provide an explanation to the lack of reproducibility observed for our cDNA measurements.
22551303	Orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.), or cocksfoot, is indigenous to Eurasia and northern Africa, but has been naturalized on nearly every continent and is one of the top perennial forage grasses grown worldwide. To improve the understanding of genetic architecture of orchardgrass and provide a template for heading date candidate gene search in this species, the goals of the present study were to construct a tetraploid orchardgrass genetic linkage map and identify quantitative trait loci associated with heading date. A combination of SSR markers derived from an orchardgrass EST library and AFLP markers were used to genotype an F1 population of 284 individuals derived from a very late heading Dactylis glomerata subsp. himalayensis parent and an early to mid-heading Dactylis glomerata subsp. aschersoniana parent. Two parental maps were constructed with 28 cosegregation groups and seven consensus linkage groups each, and homologous linkage groups were tied together by 38 bridging markers. Linkage group lengths varied from 98 to 187 cM, with an average distance between markers of 5.5 cM. All but two mapped SSR markers had homologies to physically mapped rice (Oryza sativa L.) genes, and six of the seven orchardgrass linkage groups were assigned based on this putative synteny with rice. Quantitative trait loci were detected for heading date on linkage groups 2, 5, and 6 in both parental maps, explaining between 12% and 24% of the variation.
22551354	For the rapid multiplex analysis of pathogens, 16S rRNAs from cell lysates were directly applied onto a DNA microarray at room temperature (RT) for RNA-DNA hybridization. To eliminate the labeling step, seven fluorescent-labeled detector probes were cohybridized with 16S rRNA targets and adjacent specific capture probes. We found that eight pathogens were successfully discriminated by the 16S rRNA-based direct method, which showed greater specificity than the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-labeled method due to chaperone and distance effects. A new specificity criterion for a perfect match between RNA and DNA was suggested to be 21-41% dissimilarity using correlation analysis between the mismatch and the sequence according to the guanine-cytosine (GC) percentage or the distribution of mismatches. Six categories of food matrix (egg, meat, milk, rice, vegetable, and mixed) were also tested, and the target pathogen was successfully discriminated within statistically significant levels. Finally, we found that the intrinsic abundance of 16S rRNA molecules successfully substituted PCR-based amplification with a low limit of detection of 10-10(3) cells mL(-1) and a high quantitative linear correlation. Collectively, our suggested 16S rRNA-based direct method enables the highly sensitive, specific, and quantitative analysis of selected pathogens at RT within 2 h, even in food samples.
22551450	Drought conditions limit agricultural production by preventing crops from reaching their genetically predetermined maximum yields. Here, we present the results of field evaluations of rice overexpressing OsNAC9, a member of the rice NAC domain family. Root-specific (RCc3) and constitutive (GOS2) promoters were used to overexpress OsNAC9 and produced the transgenic RCc3:OsNAC9 and GOS2:OsNAC9 plants. Field evaluations over two cultivating seasons showed that grain yields of the RCc3:OsNAC9 and the GOS2:OsNAC9 plants were increased by 13%-18% and 13%-32% under normal conditions, respectively. Under drought conditions, RCc3:OsNAC9 plants showed an increased grain yield of 28%-72%, whilst the GOS2:OsNAC9 plants remained unchanged. Both transgenic lines exhibited altered root architecture involving an enlarged stele and aerenchyma. The aerenchyma of RCc3:OsNAC9 roots was enlarged to a greater extent than those of GOS2:OsNAC9 and non-transgenic (NT) roots, suggesting the importance of this phenotype for enhanced drought resistance. Microarray experiments identified 40 up-regulated genes by more than threefold (P < 0.01) in the roots of both transgenic lines. These included 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase, an ABA biosynthesis gene, calcium-transporting ATPase, a component of the Ca(2+) signalling pathway involved in cortical cell death and aerenchyma formation, cinnamoyl CoA reductase 1, a gene involved in lignin biosynthesis, and wall-associated kinases¸ genes involved in cell elongation and morphogenesis. Interestingly, O-methyltransferase, a gene necessary for barrier formation, was specifically up-regulated only in the RCc3:OsNAC9 roots. Such up-regulated genes that are commonly and specifically up-regulated in OsNAC9 transgenic roots may account for the altered root architecture conferring increased drought resistance phenotype.
22552805	In order to understand the product inhibition of enzymatic lignocellulose hydrolysis, the enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated rice straw was carried out over an enzyme loading range of 2 to 30 FPU/g substrate, and the inhibition of enzymatic hydrolysis was analyzed kinetically based on the reducing sugars produced. It was shown that glucose, xylose, and arabinose were the main reducing sugar components contained in the hydrolysate. The mass ratio of glucose, xylose, and arabinose to the total reducing sugars was almost constant at 52.0%, 29.7% and 18.8%, respectively, in the enzyme loading range. The reducing sugars exerted competitive inhibitory interferences to the enzymatic hydrolysis. Glucose, xylose, and arabinose had a dissociation constant of 1.24, 0.54 and 0.33 g/l, respectively. The inhibitory interferences by reducing sugars were superimposed on the enzymatic hydrolysis. The enzymatic hydrolysis could be improved by the removal of the produced reducing sugars from hydrolysate.
22552915	It has been known for decades that centromere size varies across species, but the factors involved in setting centromere boundaries are unknown. As a means to address this question, we estimated centromere sizes in ten species of the grass family including rice, maize, and wheat, which diverged 60~80 million years ago and vary by 40-fold in genome size. Measurements were made using a broadly reactive antibody to rice centromeric histone H3 (CENH3). In species-wide comparisons, we found a clear linear relationship between total centromere size and genome size. Species with large genomes and few chromosomes tend to have the largest centromeres (e.g., rye) while species with small genomes and many chromosomes have the smallest centromeres (e.g., rice). However, within a species, centromere size is surprisingly uniform. We present evidence from three oat-maize addition lines that support this claim, indicating that each of three maize centromeres propagated in oat are not measurably different from each other. In the context of previously published data, our results suggest that the apparent correlation between chromosome and centromere size is incidental to a larger trend that reflects genome size. Centromere size may be determined by a limiting component mechanism similar to that described for Caenorhabditis elegans centrosomes.
22553176	Nesoryzomys swarthi, the most endangered of the three surviving, endemic Galapagos "rice rats," was only discovered in the early 20th Century and was considered extinct until its rediscovery in 1997 at a north-central coastal location on Isla Santiago. Potential threats to the entire genus include invasive rodent species, feral cats, new diseases, and climate change. These threats have been the basis for conservation breeding recommendations (as yet unmet) by several observers during the last several decades. This paper considers likely dietary requirements of N. swarthi in light of recent studies on the ecology of this species plus new data on the nutrient composition of Opuntia galapageia (a "resource refuge" for this species) and circulating vitamin values of animals sampled on Isla Santiago. It is concluded that, despite some unusually high mineral values for O. galapageia, a diet for N. swarthi under human care should be the same as it is for most other rodents, noting some caution in regard to possible needs for mineral and/or protein adjustment.
22554467	Mucosal vaccines based on rice (MucoRice) offer a highly practical and cost-effective strategy for vaccinating large populations against mucosal infections. However, the limitation of low expression and yield of vaccine antigens with high molecular weight remains to be overcome. Here, we introduced RNAi technology to advance the MucoRice system by co-introducing antisense sequences specific for genes encoding endogenous rice storage proteins to minimize storage protein production and allow more space for the accumulation of vaccine antigen in rice seed. When we used RNAi suppression of a combination of major rice endogenous storage proteins, 13 kDa prolamin and glutelin A in a T-DNA vector, we could highly express a vaccine comprising the 45 kDa C-terminal half of the heavy chain of botulinum type A neurotoxin (BoHc), at an average of 100 μg per seed (MucoRice-BoHc). The MucoRice-Hc was water soluble, and was expressed in the cytoplasm but not in protein body I or II of rice seeds. Thus, our adaptation of the RNAi system improved the yield of a vaccine antigen with a high molecular weight. When the mucosal immunogenicity of the purified MucoRice-BoHc was examined, the vaccine induced protective immunity against a challenge with botulinum type A neurotoxin in mice. These findings demonstrate the efficiency and utility of the advanced MucoRice system as an innovative vaccine production system for generating highly immunogenic mucosal vaccines of high-molecular-weight antigens.
22556728	The traditional use of Curcuma caesia leaves by farmers to stimulate rice seed germination is scientifically concirmed in this article.
22557151	Rice Bran wax is obtained from natural sources and is abundantly available in the country. Rice bran wax is suitable for use in chocolate enrobes, as an enteric coating for candy and lozenges, as a plasticizing material in chewing gums etc. Present study attempts to find if rice bran wax is useful as ointment base. The oleaginous type ointment base is prepared by using rice bran wax and evaluated for speardabililty, water number and active ingredient diffusibility. The results obtained in the present study indicate, rice bran wax can be used as a good component in ointment base, comparable with white wax.
22557413	The effect of 100 ppm solution of each of kinetin, adenine, uracil and thymine on the vegetative and reproductive growth of Cucumis sativus, phaseolus mungo, Oryza sativus, Raphanus sativus and Lycopersicum esculentum plants were studied. The rate of vegetative growth was found to be more in the Cucumis sativus, Raphanus sativus and Lycopersicum esculentum plants treated with all the chemicals mentioned above over that of the controls. Phaseolus mungo and Oryza sativa plants shows almost the same growth rate with that of the control plants. So far the reproductive phase is concerned, measured as the size of fruit and number of fruit and seed, Cucumis sativus plants produced about same number of fruits in all the treatments but fruit size varied greatly along with the number of seeds in kinetin and adenine treated plants.
22557658	In this experimental study of 65 ulcer patients and 25 healthy persons of this locality revealed an affinity of rice with ulceration. Experimental study conducted on 32 albino rats also confirmed the ulcerogenic property of rice. Arahara (red gram, Cojanus Ccaja) and to some extent wheat were found protective against peptic ulcer probably because of their high mucin output. Therefore, the study finds that the addition of wheat and pulses like Arahara in the diet of high prevalent area may bring decline in the incidence of peptic ulcer.
22558386	The jasmonic acid (JA) pathway plays a key role in plant defense responses against herbivorous insects. CORONATINE INSENSITIVE1 (COI1) is an F-box protein essential for all jasmonate responses. However, the precise defense function of COI1 in monocotyledonous plants, especially in rice (Oryza sativa L.) is largely unknown. We silenced OsCOI1 in rice plants via RNA interference (RNAi) to determine the role of OsCOI1 in rice defense against rice leaf folder (LF) Cnaphalocrocis medinalis, a chewing insect, and brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens, a phloem-feeding insect. In wild-type rice plants (WT), the transcripts of OsCOI1 were strongly and continuously up-regulated by LF infestation and methyl jasmonate (MeJA) treatment, but not by BPH infestation. The abundance of trypsin protease inhibitor (TrypPI), and the enzymatic activities of polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and peroxidase (POD) were enhanced in response to both LF and BPH infestation, but the activity of lipoxygenase (LOX) was only induced by LF. The RNAi lines with repressed expression of OsCOI1 showed reduced resistance against LF, but no change against BPH. Silencing OsCOI1 did not alter LF-induced LOX activity and JA content, but it led to a reduction in the TrypPI content, POD and PPO activity by 62.3%, 48.5% and 27.2%, respectively. In addition, MeJA-induced TrypPI and POD activity were reduced by 57.2% and 48.2% in OsCOI1 RNAi plants. These results suggest that OsCOI1 is an indispensable signaling component, controlling JA-regulated defense against chewing insect (LF) in rice plants, and COI1 is also required for induction of TrypPI, POD and PPO in rice defense response to LF infestation.
22558400	The white backed planthopper (WBPH), Sogatella furcifera (Horváth), causes great damage to many crops by direct feeding or transmitting plant viruses. Southern rice black-streaked dwarf virus (SRBSDV), transmitted by WBPH, has become a great threat to rice production in East Asia. By de novo transcriptome assembling and massive parallel pyrosequencing, we constructed two transcriptomes of WBPH and profiled the alternation of gene expression in response to SRBSDV infection in transcriptional level. Over 25 million reads of high-quality DNA sequences and 81388 different unigenes were generated using Illumina technology from both viruliferous and non-viruliferous WBPH. WBPH has a very similar gene ontological distribution to other two closely related rice planthoppers, Nilaparvata lugens and Laodelphax striatellus. 7291 microsatellite loci were also predicted which could be useful for further evolutionary analysis. Furthermore, comparative analysis of the two transcriptomes generated from viruliferous and non-viruliferous WBPH provided a list of candidate transcripts that potentially were elicited as a response to viral infection. Pathway analyses of a subset of these transcripts indicated that SRBSDV infection may perturb primary metabolism and the ubiquitin-proteasome pathways. In addition, 5.5% (181 out of 3315) of the genes in cell cytoskeleton organization pathway showed obvious changes. Our data also demonstrated that SRBSDV infection activated the immunity regulatory systems of WBPH, such as RNA interference, autophagy and antimicrobial peptide production. We employed massively parallel pyrosequencing to collect ESTs from viruliferous and non-viruliferous samples of WBPH. 81388 different unigenes have been obtained. We for the first time described the direct effects of a Reoviridae family plant virus on global gene expression profiles of its insect vector using high-throughput sequencing. Our study will provide a road map for future investigations of the fascinating interactions between Reoviridae viruses and their insect vectors, and provide new strategies for crop protection.
22558413	The role of β-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle in fungal pathogenesis is well documented. However, an ambiguity still remains over their interaction in peroxisomes to facilitate fungal pathogenicity and virulence. In this report, we characterize a gene encoding an alanine, glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 (AGT1) in Magnaporthe oryzae, the causative agent of rice blast disease, and demonstrate that AGT1 is required for pathogenicity of M. oryzae. Targeted deletion of AGT1 resulted in the failure of penetration via appressoria; therefore, mutants lacking the gene were unable to induce blast symptoms on the hosts rice and barley. This penetration failure may be associated with a disruption in lipid mobilization during conidial germination as turgor generation in the appressorium requires mobilization of lipid reserves from the conidium. Analysis of enhanced green fluorescent protein expression using the transcriptional and translational fusion with the AGT1 promoter and open reading frame, respectively, revealed that AGT1 expressed constitutively in all in vitro grown cell types and during in planta colonization, and localized in peroxisomes. Peroxisomal localization was further confirmed by colocalization with red fluorescent protein fused with the peroxisomal targeting signal 1. Surprisingly, conidia produced by the Δagt1 mutant were unable to form appressoria on artificial inductive surfaces, even after prolonged incubation. When supplemented with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+))+pyruvate, appressorium formation was restored on an artificial inductive surface. Taken together, our data indicate that AGT1-dependent pyruvate formation by transferring an amino group of alanine to glyoxylate, an intermediate of the glyoxylate cycle is required for lipid mobilization and utilization. This pyruvate can be converted to non-fermentable carbon sources, which may require reoxidation of NADH generated by the β-oxidation of fatty acids to NAD(+) in peroxisomes. Therefore, it may provide a means to maintain redox homeostasis in appressoria.
22558539	Cellulose is a major constituent of renewable lignocellulosic waste available in large quantities and is considered the most important reservoir of carbon for the production of glucose, for alternative fuel and as a chemical feedstock. Over the past decade, the emphasis has been on the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose to glucose and the efficiency of which depends on source of cellulosic substrate, its composition, structure, pretreatment process, and reactor design. In the present study, efforts were made to produce cellulase enzyme using rice straw. The produced enzyme was used for the hydrolysis of selected lignocellulosic substrate, i.e., sorghum straw. When rice straw was used as a substrate for cellulase production under solid state fermentation, the highest enzyme activity obtained was 30.7 FPU/gds, using T. reesei NCIM 992. 25 FPU/g of cellulase was added to differently treated (native, alkali treated, alkali treated followed by 3% acid treated and alkali treated followed by 3 and 5% acid treated) sorghum straw and hydrolysis was carried out at 50 °C for 60 h. 42.5% hydrolysis was obtained after 36 h of incubation. Optimization of enzyme loading, substrate concentration, temperature, time and buffer yielded a maximum of 546.00 ± 0.55 mg/g sugars (54.60 ± 0.44 g/l) with an improved hydrolysis efficiency of 70 ± 0.45%. The enzymatic hydrolyzate can be used for fermentation of ethanol by yeasts.
22558541	It has been reported that phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) are the most promising bacteria among the plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR); which may be used as biofertilizers for plant growth and nutrient use efficiency. Moreover, these soil micro-organisms play a significant role in regulating the dynamics of organic matter decomposition and the availability of plant nutrients such as nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and other nutrients. Through this study, the management of nutrient use efficiency by the application of PSB was targeted in order to make the applied nutrients more available to the plants in the rice (Oryza sativa) and yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata) cultivation. Results have shown that the treatments with PSB alone or in the form of consortia of compatible strains with or without the external application of chemical NPK gave more germination index (G. I.) from 2.5 to 5 in rice and 2.7 to 4.8 in bean seeds. They also showed a higher growth in both shoot and root length and a higher biomass as compared to the control. This gives us an idea about the potentiality of these PSB strains and their application in rice and yardlong bean cultivation to get a better harvest index. Their use will also possibly reduce the nutrient runoff or leaching and increase in the use efficiency of the applied fertilizers. Thus, we can conclude that the NPK uptake and management can be improved by the use of PSB in rice and yardlong bean cultivation, and their application may be much more beneficial in the agricultural field.
22558558	Acute gastroenteritis remains a common condition among infants and children throughout the world. In 1996, The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) revised its recommendations for the treatment of infants and children with acute gastroenteritis. The purpose of this survey was to determine how closely current treatment among Lebanese pediatricians compares with the AAP recommendations and to determine the impact of such management on the healthcare system. The outline of the study was based on a telephone questionnaire that addressed the management of healthy infants and children below five years of age with acute gastroenteritis complicated by mild to moderate dehydration. In addition, the costs of medical treatment and requested laboratory studies were calculated. A total of 238 pediatricians completed the questionnaire. Most pediatricians prescribed Oral Rehydration Solutions (ORS) for rehydration (92.4%), advised breastfeeding during acute gastroenteritis (81.5%), and avoided parenteral rehydration for mild to moderate dehydration (89.1%). In addition to ORS, oral fluids such as soda, juices, and rice water were allowed for rehydration by 43.7% of pediatricians. Thirty-one percent of pediatricians delayed re-feeding for more than 6 hours after initiation of rehydration. Only 32.8% of pediatricians kept their patients on regular full-strength formulas, and only 21.8% permitted full-calorie meals for their patients. 75.4% of pediatricians did not order any laboratory studies in cases of mild dehydration and 50.4% did not order any laboratory studies for moderate dehydration. Stool analysis and culture were ordered by almost half of the pediatricians surveyed. Seventy-seven percent prescribed anti-emetics, 61% prescribed probiotics, 26.3% prescribed antibiotics systematically and local antiseptic agents, 16.9% prescribed zinc supplements, and 11% percent prescribed antidiarrheal agents. Pediatricians in Lebanon are aware of the importance of ORS and the positive role of breastfeeding in acute gastroenteritis. However, they do not follow optimal recommendations from the AAP concerning nutrition, laboratory examinations and drug prescriptions. Consequently, this poses significant financial losses and economic burden.
2255908	The regulatory photoreceptor, phytochrome, controls the expression of numerous genes, including its own phyA genes, which are transcriptionally repressed in response to light. Functional analysis of a rice phyA gene promoter, by means of microprojectile-mediated gene transfer, indicates that a GT motif, GCGGTAATT, closely related to elements in the promoters of a number of other light-regulated genes, is critical for expression. Partial complementary DNA clones have been obtained for a rice nuclear protein, designated GT-2, that binds in a highly sequence-specific fashion to this motif. Mutational analysis shows that the paired G's are most crucial to binding. GT-2 has domains related to certain other transcription factors. Northern blot analysis shows that GT-2 messenger RNA levels decline in white light although red and far red light pulses are ineffective.
22559479	Impulsive Raman excitation of C(60) by single or double pulses of near-infrared wavelength λ = 1800 nm was investigated by using a time-dependent adiabatic state approach combined with the density functional theory method. We confirmed that the vibrational energy stored in a Raman active mode of C(60) is maximized when T(p) ~ T(vib)/2 in the case of a single pulse, where T(p) is the pulse length and T(vib) is the vibrational period of the mode. In the case of a double pulse, mode selective excitation can be achieved by adjusting the pulse interval τ. The energy of a Raman active mode is maximized if τ is chosen to equal an integer multiple of T(vib) and it is minimized if τ is equal to a half-integer multiple of T(vib). We also investigated the subsequent picosecond or nanosecond dynamics of Stone-Wales rearrangement (SWR) and fragmentation by using the density-functional based tight-binding semiempirical method. We present how SWRs are caused by the flow of vibrational kinetic energy on the carbon bond network of C(60). In the case where the h(g)(1) prolate-oblate mode is initially excited, the number of SWRs before fragmentation is larger than in the case of a(g)(1) mode excitation for the same excess vibrational energy. Fragmentation by C(2) ejection C(60) → C(58) + C(2) is found to occur from strained, fused pentagon/pentagon defects produced by a preceding SWR, which confirms the earliest mechanistic speculations of Smalley et al. [J. Chem. Phys. 88, 220 (1988)]. The fragmentation rate of C(2) ejection in the case of h(g)(1) mode excitation does not follow a statistical description as employed for instance in the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (RRK) theory, whereas the rate for a(g)(1) mode excitation does follow the prediction by RRK. We also found for the h(g)(1) mode excitation that the nonstatistical nature affects the distribution of barycentric velocities of fragments C(58) and C(2). This result suggests that it is possible to control rearrangement and subsequent bond breaking in a "nonstatistical" way by initial selective mode excitation.
22560085	Shochu distillation remnants (SDR) are by-products in the manufacturing process of the Japanese liquor Shochu and include various useful organic compounds derived from the fermentation of grains. We have obtained valuable powder (PSDR) from freeze-dried SDR by the treatment with ethanol. In this study, we examined the anticancer effects of barley-, rice-, and sweet potato-PSDR against HepG2 and HuH-7 cells of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vitro. All PSDR inhibited the growth of both these HCC cells through the induction of apoptosis. Especially, barley-PSDR was the most effective for the growth inhibition and apoptosis induction of HCC cells of all PSDR. We next examined the apoptotic mechanisms induced by barley-PSDR. Decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria were observed in HCC cells after the treatment with barley-PSDR. Furthermore, barley-PSDR induced the nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria, while it did not significantly affect the activities of caspase-3, -8, and -9. The results suggested that barley-PSDR induced apoptosis against HCC cells via the caspase-independent mitochondrial pathway. The findings in this study suggest that PSDR has the possibility of therapeutic and/or preventive agents of HCC.
22560450	A rapid off-line solid phase extraction-large volume injection-gas chromatography-flame ionisation detection (SPE-LVI-GC-FID) method, based on the use of silver silica gel and low solvent consumption, was developed for mineral oil saturated hydrocarbon (MOSH) and mineral oil aromatic hydrocarbon (MOAH) determination in cardboard and dried foods packaged in cardboard. The SPE method was validated using LVI with a conventional on-column injector and the retention gap technique (which allowed to inject up to 50 μL of the sample). Detector response was linear over all the concentration range tested (0.5-250 μg/mL), recoveries were practically quantitative, repeatability was good (coefficients of variation lower than 7%) and limit of quantification adequate to quantify the envisioned limit of 0.15 mg/kg proposed in Germany for MOAH analysis in food samples packaged in recycled cardboard. Rapid heating of the GC oven allowed to increase sample throughput (3-4 samples per hour) and to enhance sensitivity. The proposed method was used for MOSH and MOAH determination in selected food samples usually commercialised in cardboard packaging. The most contaminated was a tea sample (102.2 and 7.9 mg/kg of MOSH and MOAH below n-C25, respectively), followed by a rice and a sugar powder sample, all packaged in recycled cardboard.
22560940	Dietary pattern analysis is emerging as a practical, effective tool for relating comprehensive dietary intake to risk of cardiovascular disease mortality. However, no studies have applied this technique to a population outside of the developed world. We conducted prospective cohort analyses in 11,116 participants enrolled in the Health Effects of Arsenic Study in Araihazar, Bangladesh, measuring deaths attributable to disease of circulatory system, heart disease, and cerebrovascular disease. Participants were enrolled in 2000 and followed up for an average of 6.6 years. Dietary information was obtained through a previously validated food-frequency questionnaire at baseline. Principal component analysis based on our comprehensive, 39 item FFQ yielded 3 dietary patterns: (i) a "balanced" pattern, comprised of steamed rice, red meat, fish, fruit and vegetables; (ii) an "animal protein" diet, which was more heavily weighted towards eggs, milk, red meat, poultry, bread, and vegetables; and (iii) a "gourd and root vegetable" diet that heavily relied on a variety of gourds, radishes, pumpkin, sweet potato, and spinach. We observed a positive association between increasing adherence to the animal protein diet and risk of death from both disease of the circulatory system and heart disease; the hazard ratios were 1.13 (95% CI, 1.00-1.28, p=0.05) and 1.17 (95% CI, 0.99-1.38, p=0.07), respectively, in relation to one standard deviation increase in the factor scores for the animal protein diet pattern, after controlling for age, sex, body mass index, smoking status, and energy intake. The positive association was more significant among ever smokers; the hazard ratios (95% CI) for deaths from disease of the circulatory system and heart disease were 1.17 (1.02-1.34) and 1.20 (1.00-1.45), respectively, in relation to one standard deviation increase in the factor scores for the animal protein diet pattern. An animal protein-rich diet in rural Bangladesh may increase risk of heart disease mortality, especially among smokers. This emphasizes the need to further explore and address the impact of dietary patterns on cardiovascular disease in populations undergoing epidemiologic transition.
22561104	The sorting nexins Atg20/Snx42 and Snx41 regulate membrane traffic and endosomal protein sorting and are essential for Cvt and/or pexophagy in yeast. Previously, we showed that macroautophagy is necessary for conidiation in the rice-blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Here, we analyzed the physiological function(s) of selective autophagy in Magnaporthe through targeted deletion of MGG_12832, an ortholog of yeast SNX41 and ATG20/SNX42. Loss of MGG_12832 (hereafter SNX41) abolished conidia formation and pathogenesis in M. oryzae. Snx41-GFP localized as dynamic puncta or short tubules that are partially associated with autophagosomes and/or autophagic vacuoles. PX domain, but not macroautophagy per se, was required for such localization of Snx41-GFP in Magnaporthe. Although not required for nonselective autophagy, Snx41 was essential for pexophagy in Magnaporthe. We identified Oxp1, an ATP-dependent oxoprolinase in the gamma-glutamyl cycle, as a binding partner and potential retrieval target of Snx41-dependent protein sorting. The substrate of Oxp1, 5-oxoproline, could partially restore conidiation in the snx41Δ. Exogenous glutathione, a product of the gamma-glutamyl cycle, significantly restored pathogenicity in the snx41Δ mutant, likely through counteracting the oxidative stress imposed by the host. We propose that the gamma-glutamyl cycle and glutathione biosynthesis are subject to regulation by Snx41-dependent vesicular trafficking, and mediate antioxidant defense crucial for in planta growth and pathogenic differentiation of Magnaporthe at the onset of blast disease in rice.
22561113	Operon-like arrangements of genes occur in eukaryotes ranging from yeasts and filamentous fungi to nematodes, plants, and mammals. In plants, several examples of operon-like gene clusters involved in metabolic pathways have recently been characterized, e.g. the cyclic hydroxamic acid pathways in maize, the avenacin biosynthesis gene clusters in oat, the thalianol pathway in Arabidopsis thaliana, and the diterpenoid momilactone cluster in rice. Such operon-like gene clusters are defined by their co-regulation or neighboring positions within immediate vicinity of chromosomal regions. A comprehensive analysis of the expression of neighboring genes therefore accounts a crucial step to reveal the complete set of operon-like gene clusters within a genome. Genome-wide prediction of operon-like gene clusters should contribute to functional annotation efforts and provide novel insight into evolutionary aspects acquiring certain biological functions as well. We predicted co-expressed gene clusters by comparing the Pearson correlation coefficient of neighboring genes and randomly selected gene pairs, based on a statistical method that takes false discovery rate (FDR) into consideration for 1469 microarray gene expression datasets of A. thaliana. We estimated that A. thaliana contains 100 operon-like gene clusters in total. We predicted 34 statistically significant gene clusters consisting of 3 to 22 genes each, based on a stringent FDR threshold of 0.1. Functional relationships among genes in individual clusters were estimated by sequence similarity and functional annotation of genes. Duplicated gene pairs (determined based on BLAST with a cutoff of E<10(-5)) are included in 27 clusters. Five clusters are associated with metabolism, containing P450 genes restricted to the Brassica family and predicted to be involved in secondary metabolism. Operon-like clusters tend to include genes encoding bio-machinery associated with ribosomes, the ubiquitin/proteasome system, secondary metabolic pathways, lipid and fatty-acid metabolism, and the lipid transfer system.
22562167	The α-amylase (AmyP) from a marine metagenomic library belongs to the recently classified glycoside hydrolase subfamily GH13_37. The degradation abilities of AmyP on a broad range of raw starch granules were examined at 40 °C and pH 7.5. It was found that AmyP is a raw starch-degrading enzyme, exhibiting a unique and remarkable ability to preferentially and very rapidly digest raw rice starch. The specific activity of raw rice starch was reached 118.5 ± 0.6 Umg(-1), which was much higher than that of other raw starches. The final hydrolysis degrees were obtained in 4 h for 1 % raw rice starch and 1 h for 8 % concentration, indicating a very rapid speed of hydrolysis. The presence of a starch residue resistant was the main limiting factor for complete hydrolysis, although end product inhibition also existed, especially at high starch concentrations. AmyP randomly attacks unique or susceptible sites on raw rice starch granules, and releases glucose, maltose, and maltotriose as end products. This is the first biochemical characterization of the raw starch-degrading ability of an α-amylase of family GH13_37. The specific ability towards raw rice starch has never been described before, and this makes AmyP a promising candidate for use as a novel enzyme in rice starch processing.
22562342	In this study, rice husk was modified with NaOH and used as adsorbent for dynamic adsorption of methylene blue (MB) from aqueous solutions. Continuous removal of MB from aqueous solutions was studied in a laboratory scale fixed-bed column packed with NaOH-modified rice husk (NMRH). Effect of different flow rates and bed heights on the column breakthrough performance was investigated. In order to determine the most suitable model for describing the adsorption kinetics of MB in the fixed-bed column system, the bed depth service time (BDST) model as well as the Thomas model was fitted to the experimental data. An artificial neural network (ANN)-based model was also developed for describing the dynamic dye adsorption process. An extensive error analysis was carried out between experimental data and data predicted by the models by using the following error functions: correlation coefficient (R(2)), average relative error, sum of the absolute error and Chi-square statistic test (χ(2)). Results show that with increasing bed height and decreasing flow rate, the breakthrough time was delayed. All the error functions yielded minimum values for the ANN model than the traditional models (BDST and Thomas), suggesting that the ANN model is the most suitable model to describe the fixed-bed adsorption of MB by NMRH. It is also more rational and reliable to interpret dynamic dye adsorption data through a process of ANN architecture.
22562381	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small, non-coding regulatory RNAs that regulate gene expression by guiding target mRNA cleavage or translational inhibition in plants and animals. In this study, a small RNA library was constructed to identify conserved miRNAs as well as novel miRNAs in maize seedling roots under low level phosphorus stress. Twelve miRNAs were identified by high throughput sequencing of the library and subsequent analysis, two belong to conserved miRNA families (miRNA399b and miRNA156), and the remaining ten are novel and one of latter is conserved in gramineous species. Based on sequence homology, we predicted 125 potential target genes of these miRNAs and then expression patterns of 7 miRNAs were validated by semi-RT-PCR analysis. MiRNA399b, Zma-miR3, and their target genes (Zmpt1 and Zmpt2) were analyzed by real-time PCR. It is shown that both miRNA399b and Zma-miR3 are induced by low phosphorus stress and regulated by their target genes (Zmpt1 and Zmpt2). Moreover, Zma-miR3, regulated by two maize inorganic phosphate transporters as a newly identified miRNAs, would likely be directly involved in phosphate homeostasis, so was miRNA399b in Arabidopsis and rice. These results indicate that both conserved and maize-specific miRNAs play important roles in stress responses and other physiological processes correlated with phosphate starvation, regulated by their target genes. Identification of these differentially expressed miRNAs will facilitate us to uncover the molecular mechanisms underlying the progression of maize seedling roots development under low level phosphorus stress.
22562829	The current study investigated finiteness marking (e.g., he walk s, he walk ed) in boys with fragile X syndrome (FXS); the boys were grouped based on receptive vocabulary (i.e., borderline, impaired). Twenty-one boys with the full mutation of fragile X, between the ages of 8 and 16 years participated. The boys completed probes from the Test of Early Grammatical Impairment (TEGI; Rice & Wexler, 2001), a language sample, a nonverbal IQ test (Leiter-R; Roid & Miller, 1997), a receptive vocabulary test (the Pearson Picture Vocabulary Test-Fourth Edition [PPVT-IV]; Dunn & Dunn, 2007), and a measure of autistic symptoms (the Childhood Autism Rating Scale [CARS]; Schopler, Reichler, & Renner, 2002). There were group differences for finiteness responses on the 3rd person singular probe; the group with impaired vocabulary omitted markers with greater frequency compared to the borderline vocabulary group. There were not significant differences on the past tense probe, with both groups performing lower than expectations based on receptive vocabulary ability. Nonverbal IQ was not correlated with the measures of finiteness marking. Boys with FXS demonstrate delays in finiteness marking, in particular, on past tense verbs. Boys with FXS show a unique profile, unlike children with SLI, in which their use of tense markers may exceed expectations benchmarked to clause length.
22563739	Cadmium (Cd2+) interferes with the uptake, transport and utilization of several macro- and micronutrients, which accounts, at least in part, for Cd2+ toxicity in plants. However, the mechanisms underlying Cd2+ interference of ionic homeostasis is not understood. Using biophysical techniques including membrane potential measurements, scanning ion-selective electrode technique for non-invasive ion flux assays and patch clamp, we monitored the effect of Cd2+ on calcium (Ca2+) and potassium (K+) transport in root hair cells of rice. Our results showed that K+ and Ca2+ contents in both roots and shoots were significantly reduced when treated with exogenous Cd2+. Further studies revealed that three cellular processes may be affected by Cd2+, leading to changes in ionic homeostasis. First, Cd2+ -induced depolarization of the membrane potential was observed in root hair cells, attenuating the driving force for cation uptake. Second, the inward conductance of Ca2+ and K+ was partially blocked by Cd2+, decreasing uptake of K+ and Ca2+ . Third, the outward K+ conductance was Cd2+ -inducible, decreasing the net content of K+ in roots. These results provide direct evidence that Cd2+ impairs uptake of Ca2+ and K+, thereby disturbing ion homeostasis in plants.
22563799	The role of Rubisco activase in steady-state and non-steady-state photosynthesis was analyzed in wild-type (Oryza sativa) and transgenic rice that expressed different amounts of Rubisco activase. Below 25°C, the Rubisco activation state and steady-state photosynthesis were only affected when Rubisco activase was reduced by more than 70%. However, at 40°C, smaller reductions in Rubisco activase content were linked to a reduced Rubisco activation state and steady-state photosynthesis. As a result, overexpression of maize Rubisco activase in rice did not lead to an increase of the Rubisco activation state, nor to an increase in photosynthetic rate below 25°C, but had a small stimulatory effect at 40°C. On the other hand, the rate at which photosynthesis approached the steady state following an increase in light intensity was rapid in Rubisco activase-overexpressing plants, intermediate in the wild-type, and slowest in antisense plants at any leaf temperature. In Rubisco activase-overexpressing plants, Rubisco activation state at low light was maintained at higher levels than in the wild-type. Thus, rapid regulation by Rubisco activase following an increase in light intensity and/or maintenance of a high Rubisco activation state at low light would result in a rapid increase in Rubisco activation state and photosynthetic rate following an increase in light intensity. It is concluded that Rubisco activase plays an important role in the regulation of non-steady-state photosynthesis at any leaf temperature and, to a lesser extent, of steady-state photosynthesis at high temperature.
2256398	The epidemiological and epizootic situation in Leptospira infections at the Maritime [correction of Primorski] Territory is evaluated on the basis of complex studies carried out in 1984-1989. As revealed in these studies, cases of leptospirosis among humans have a sporadic character and are mainly registered among professional high risk groups of the population. In the immunological structure of persons covered by the survey L. hebdomadis, L. pomona and L. javanica prevail. The anthropourgic foci of leptospirosis caused by L. pomona are of the leading epidemiological importance. Swine serves as the main source of infection in these foci. The study revealed the epidemic danger of the natural foci of leptospirosis caused by L. grippotyphosa and L. javanica in rice fields where the decisive factors of leptospirosis proved to be reed voles and striped field mice serving as reservoirs of this infection, as well as the synanthropic foci of leptospirosis caused by L. hebdomadis with house mice serving as the main carriers.
22565016	Our early toxicological studies showed that metallothionein (MT) is a protein that carries cadmium (Cd) to the kidney, explaining why Cd exposures during long time periods may give rise to kidney dysfunction. This dysfunction is usually considered to be the critical effect, i.e. the adverse effect that occurs at the lowest exposure level. MT also provides intracellular protection against cadmium toxicity. In studies of population groups in cadmium contaminated areas in China, we investigated factors that affected the relationship between internal dose of Cd, as indicated by blood Cd (BCd) or urinary Cd (UCd), and the prevalence of kidney dysfunction. We found dose-response relationships between UCd and the prevalence of increased levels of biomarkers of renal tubular dysfunction (urinary beta-2-microglobulin, B2M, or N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase - NAG) or urinary albumin (UAlb), a biomarker of glomerular kidney dysfunction. Two years after Cd intake from contaminated rice was diminished, renal tubular dysfunction appeared unchanged or aggravated among those with higher UCd; Another 8 years later, i.e. 10 years after Cd intake was decreased, the prevalence of renal tubular dysfunction was still increased but UAlb had returned to normal. Factors that influenced the dose-response relationships were: (1) time after maximum exposure. (2) Concomitant exposure to other nephrotoxic agents such as inorganic arsenic. (3) Cd induced metallothionein mRNA levels in peripheral blood lymphocytes, used as a biomarker of the ability of each person, to synthesize MT. (4) The occurrence of increased levels in blood plasma of autoantibodies against MT. The two last points further support a role in humans of MT as a protective protein against tissue damage from cadmium and gives support to previous ideas developed partly in experimental systems.
2256574	A panel of tests including intracutaneous skin testing (ST), radioallergosorbent test (RAST), immunoblotting and allergen-induced lymphoproliferation was done to study rice pollen allergy in asthmatic children and to characterize the allergens. Of the 312 asthmatic patients skin tested, 29 (9.3%) had positive reactions (wheal greater than or equal to 6 mm) to rice pollen extract at a concentration of 10(-5) g/mL and the remaining 283 (90.7%) were negative. While eight (34.8%) of the 23 ST-positive patients were also RAST-positive, RAST was negative in all 34 ST-negative patients and 20 normals. Immunoblotting revealed three major allergens, with molecular weights of 16 kD, 26 kD, and 32 kD, respectively. Interestingly, RAST-positive patients showed IgE responses to most allergens but only a few of them had IgG antibodies, while normal controls had stronger IgG responses to the same allergens, particularly to 32 kD, but none had IgE antibody. The preliminary results of rice pollen protein induced-lymphoproliferation were not informative; thus, rice pollen proteins do elicit a specific response in asthmatic children and normals, but its pathogenic role in bronchial asthma needs further study.
22565958
22566008	An extract was prepared from Egyptian stabilized rice bran and standardized to contain 2% γ-oryzanol in addition to its content of other bioactives, notably tocotrienol and policosanol. The standardized extract was found to have a concentration-dependent effect on insulin release in vitro, which, however, is not mediated by γ-tocotrienol in rice bran (detected by HPLC) as could have been expected. Policosanol and γ-oryzanol have insulinotropic effects. The in vitro data of rice bran directly translate into in vivo data of rats by using a glucose tolerance test (increase in plasma insulin). Tocotrienols are well known for their apoptotic effect on tumor cells; nevertheless, an attempt was made to study glucose uptake in HEP-G2 cells, which needs to induce an insulin-resistant state by TNF-α. The Egyptian rice bran extract has an antidiabetic effect. γ-Oryzanol, which is a possible precursor of the insulinotropic compound ferulic acid, is a candidate for this effect. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that the prevalence of diabetes or at least a prediabetic (type 2) situation can be ameliorated by the investigated rice bran extract. The potential usefulness of the extract as a nutraceutical is currently undergoing more thorough investigations.
22566494	Abiotic stress, including drought, salinity, and temperature extremes, regulates gene expression at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. Expression profiling of total messenger RNAs (mRNAs) from rice (Oryza sativa) leaves grown under stress conditions revealed that the transcript levels of photosynthetic genes are reduced more rapidly than others, a phenomenon referred to as stress-induced mRNA decay (SMD). By comparing RNA polymerase II engagement with the steady-state mRNA level, we show here that SMD is a posttranscriptional event. The SMD of photosynthetic genes was further verified by measuring the half-lives of the small subunit of Rubisco (RbcS1) and Chlorophyll a/b-Binding Protein1 (Cab1) mRNAs during stress conditions in the presence of the transcription inhibitor cordycepin. To discern any correlation between SMD and the process of translation, changes in total and polysome-associated mRNA levels after stress were measured. Total and polysome-associated mRNA levels of two photosynthetic (RbcS1 and Cab1) and two stress-inducible (Dehydration Stress-Inducible Protein1 and Salt-Induced Protein) genes were found to be markedly similar. This demonstrated the importance of polysome association for transcript stability under stress conditions. Microarray experiments performed on total and polysomal mRNAs indicate that approximately half of all mRNAs that undergo SMD remain polysome associated during stress treatments. To delineate the functional determinant(s) of mRNAs responsible for SMD, the RbcS1 and Cab1 transcripts were dissected into several components. The expressions of different combinations of the mRNA components were analyzed under stress conditions, revealing that both 3' and 5' untranslated regions are necessary for SMD. Our results, therefore, suggest that the posttranscriptional control of photosynthetic mRNA decay under stress conditions requires both 3' and 5' untranslated regions and correlates with differential polysome association.
22566495	Photoperiodic flowering has been extensively studied in the annual short-day and long-day plants rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), whereas less is known about the control of flowering in perennials. In the perennial wild strawberry, Fragaria vesca (Rosaceae), short-day and perpetual flowering long-day accessions occur. Genetic analyses showed that differences in their flowering responses are caused by a single gene, SEASONAL FLOWERING LOCUS, which may encode the F. vesca homolog of TERMINAL FLOWER1 (FvTFL1). We show through high-resolution mapping and transgenic approaches that FvTFL1 is the basis of this change in flowering behavior and demonstrate that FvTFL1 acts as a photoperiodically regulated repressor. In short-day F. vesca, long photoperiods activate FvTFL1 mRNA expression and short days suppress it, promoting flower induction. These seasonal cycles in FvTFL1 mRNA level confer seasonal cycling of vegetative and reproductive development. Mutations in FvTFL1 prevent long-day suppression of flowering, and the early flowering that then occurs under long days is dependent on the F. vesca homolog of FLOWERING LOCUS T. This photoperiodic response mechanism differs from those described in model annual plants. We suggest that this mechanism controls flowering within the perennial growth cycle in F. vesca and demonstrate that a change in a single gene reverses the photoperiodic requirements for flowering.
22567033	Objective. This systematic review aims to evaluate the benefit and side effect of Xuezhikang for coronary heart disease (CHD) complicated by dyslipidemia. Methods. All randomized clinical trials (RCTs) with Xuezhikang as a treatment for CHD combined with dyslipidemia were considered for inclusion. Data extraction and analyses and quality assessment were conducted according to the Cochrane standards. Results. We included 22 randomized trials. Xuezhikang showed significant benefit on the incidence of all-cause deaths, CHD deaths, myocardial infarction, and revascularization as compared with placebo based on conventional treatment for CHD. It remarkably lowered total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) as compared with the placebo or inositol nicotinate group, which was similar to statins group. Xuezhikang also raised high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) compared to placebo or no intervention, which was similar to Inositol nicotinate and slightly inferior to statins. The incidence of adverse events did not differ between the Xuezhikang and control group. Conclusions. Xuezhikang showed a comprehensive lipid-regulating effect and was safe and effective in reducing cardiovascular events in CHD patients complicated by dyslipidemia. However, more rigorous trials with high quality are needed to give high level of evidence.
22567114	Spike mosses are among the most basal vascular plants, and one species, Selaginella moellendorffii, was recently selected for full genome sequencing by the Joint Genome Institute (JGI). Glycosyltransferases (GTs) are involved in many aspects of a plant life, including cell wall biosynthesis, protein glycosylation, primary and secondary metabolism. Here, we present a comparative study of the S. moellendorffii genome across 92 GT families and an additional family (DUF266) likely to include GTs. The study encompasses the moss Physcomitrella patens, a non-vascular land plant, while rice and Arabidopsis represent commelinid and non-commelinid seed plants. Analysis of the subset of GT-families particularly relevant to cell wall polysaccharide biosynthesis was complemented by a detailed analysis of S. moellendorffii cell walls. The S. moellendorffii cell wall contains many of the same components as seed plant cell walls, but appears to differ somewhat in its detailed architecture. The S. moellendorffii genome encodes fewer GTs (287 GTs including DUF266s) than the reference genomes. In a few families, notably GT51 and GT78, S. moellendorffii GTs have no higher plant orthologs, but in most families S. moellendorffii GTs have clear orthologies with Arabidopsis and rice. A gene naming convention of GTs is proposed which takes orthologies and GT-family membership into account. The evolutionary significance of apparently modern and ancient traits in S. moellendorffii is discussed, as is its use as a reference organism for functional annotation of GTs.
22567170	Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are the targets of two novel classes of synthetic insecticidal chemicals, phthalic acid diamides and anthranilic diamides. Isolation of full-length RyR cDNAs is a critical step towards the structural and functional characterization of insect RyRs and an understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the species selective toxicity of diamide insecticides. However, there has been little research on the insect RyR genes due to the high molecular weight of the RyR proteins. In this study, we isolated a full-length RyR cDNA (named as CmRyR) from Cnaphalocrocis medinalis, an important rice pest throughout Southeast Asia. The composite CmRyR gene contains an ORF of 15264 bp encoding a protein of 5087 amino acid residues, which shares 79% overall identity with its Drosophila melanogaster homologue. All hallmarks of the RyR proteins are conserved in the CmRyR protein, suggesting that CmRyR is a structural and functional analogue of known RyRs. A multiple sequence alignment illustrates that the insect RyRs share high levels of amino acid sequence identity at the the COOH-terminal region. However, the amino acid residues analogous to the CmRyR residues N(4922), N(4924), N(4935), L(4950), L(4981), N(5013) and T(5064) are unique to lepidopteran RyRs compared with non-lepidopteran insect RyRs. This finding suggests that these residues may be involved in the differences in channel properties between lepidopteran and non-lepidopteran insect RyRs and in the species selective toxicity of diamide insecticides. Furthermore, two alternative splicing sites were identified in the CmRyR gene, one of which was located in the central part of the predicted second SPRY domain. Diagnostic PCR showed that the inclusion frequencies of two mutually exclusive exons (a/b) and one optional exon (c) differed between developmental stages or adult anatomical regions. Our results imply that alternative splicing may be a major means of generating functional diversity in C. medinalis RyR channel.
22567728	Arsenic (As) contamination of the environment has emerged as a serious problem. Consequently, there is an urge to understand plants' responses to As. The analysis of various hypertolerant and hyperaccumulator plants and comparison of their responses with non-tolerant and nonaccumulators have provided valuable information about the mechanisms of As tolerance and detoxification. Therefore, we understand why most of the pteridophytes are able to hyperacumulate As, why it is difficult to find hyperaccumulators among angiosperms and why rice is able to translocate As to its grains more efficiently than any other cereal crop. This information can be employed to generate As hyperaccumulators in angiosperms and to develop safe cultivars of rice for human consumption through biotechnological approaches. Although measurable success, in terms of application in the field, has so far not been achieved, transgenic research has yielded promising results, which shed light on the approaches to be taken up in future endeavor. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms of As tolerance and detoxification in plants and transgenic research conducted.
22567855	Genetic diversity among rice genotypes, including 15 indica basmati advance lines and 5 basmati improved varieties were investigated by 28 SSR markets including one indel marker. The SSRs covered all the 12 chromosomes that distributed across the rice genomes. The mean number of alleles per locus was 3.60, showing average number of polymorphism information content was 0.48. A total of 101 alleles were also identified from the microsatellite marker loci. A number of SSR markers were also identified that could be utilized to differentiate between rice genotypes. Pair wise Nei,s genetic distance between rice genotypes ranged from 0.07 to 0.95. The dendrogram based on cluster analysis by using SSR polymorphism that grouped the 20 genotypes of rice in to five clusters based on their genetic similarity. The result could be useful for the identification and selection of the diverse genotypes for the future cross breeding program and development of new rice varieties.
22567863	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) derived from molecular oxygen under biotic and abiotic stress such as salinity which have deleterious effects on cell metabolism. The toxic effect of ROS counteract by enzymatic as well as non-enzymatic antioxidant system. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) has a potential role for elimination of ROS. Halophytes respond to salt stress at different levels and can be a model for increasing salt tolerance in crop plants. Thus salt tolerance gene isolation and cloning of gene as well as subsequent transformation are first step for sensitive crop improvement. Aeluropus littoralis is a halophyte plant from poaceae family can be as a beneficial plant with high potential for creal breeding. There was no report on isolation of SOD gene from A. littoralis and little genomic study of this plant carried out. In this study a novel gene from A. littoralis isolated. This gene amplified by reverse transcription-PCR and cloned in E. coli pTZ57R/T cloning vector. The AlSOD gene sequence contained 456 bp and the deduced transcripts encoding 152 amino acids shared a high homology with those putative CuZnSOD of higher plants like Zea mays and Oryza sativa.
22569843	The climate in Timor Leste (East Timor) is predicted to become about 1.5 °C warmer and about 10 % wetter on average by 2050. By the same year, the population is expected to triple from 1 to 2.5-3 million. This article maps the predicted changes in temperature and rainfall and reviews the implications of climate change and population growth on agricultural systems. Improved cultivars of maize, rice, cassava, sweet potato and peanuts with high yield performance have been introduced, but these will need to be augmented in the future with better adapted cultivars and new crops, such as food and fodder legumes and new management practices. The requirements for fertilizers to boost yields and terracing and/or contour hedgerows to prevent soil erosion of steeply sloping terrain are discussed. Contour hedges can also be used for fodder for improved animal production to provide protein to reduce malnutrition.
22569926	Jasmonates (JAs) are plant hormones which are crucial for the response of plants to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Beside this important function, they are involved in several developmental processes throughout plant life. In this short review, we would like to summarize the recent findings about the function of JAs in photomorphogenesis with a main focus on the model plant rice. Early plant development is determined to a large extent by light. Depending on whether seedlings are raised in darkness or in light, they show a completely different appearance which led to the terms skoto- and photomorphogenesis, respectively. The different appearance depending on the light conditions has been used to screen for mutants in photoperception and signalling. By this approach, mutants for several photoreceptors and in the downstream signalling pathways could be isolated. In rice, we and others isolated mutants with a very intriguing phenotype. The mutated genes have been cloned by map-based cloning, and all of them encode for JA biosynthesis genes. The most bioactive form of JAs identified so far is the amino acid conjugate jasmonoyl-isoleucin (JA-Ile). In order to conjugate JA to Ile, an enzyme of the GH3 family, JASMONATE RESISTANT 1, is required. We characterized mutants of OsJAR1 on a physiological and biochemical level and found evidence for redundantly active enzymes in rice.
22569963	Glycine betaine (GB) is a compatible quaternary amine that enables plants to tolerate abiotic stresses, including salt, drought and cold. In plants, GB is synthesized through two-step of successive oxidations from choline, catalyzed by choline monooxygenase (CMO) and betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH), respectively. Rice is considered as a typical non-GB accumulating species, although the entire genome sequencing revealed rice contains orthologs of both CMO and BADH. Several studies unraveled that rice has a functional BADH gene, but whether rice CMO gene (OsCMO) is functional or a pseudogene remains to be elucidated. In the present study, we report the functional characterization of rice CMO gene. The OsCMO gene was isolated from rice cv. Nipponbare (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) using RT-PCR. Northern blot demonstrated the transcription of OsCMO is enhanced by salt stress. Transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing OsCMO results in increased GB content and elevated tolerance to salt stress. Immunoblotting analysis demonstrates that a functional OsCMO protein with correct size was present in transgenic tobacco but rarely accumulated in wild-type rice plants. Surprisingly, a large amount of truncated proteins derived from OsCMO was induced in the rice seedlings in response to salt stresses. This suggests that it is the lack of a functional OsCMO protein that presumably results in non-GB accumulation in the tested rice plant. Expression and transgenic studies demonstrate OsCMO is transcriptionally induced in response to salt stress and functions in increasing glycinebetaine accumulation and enhancing tolerance to salt stress. Immunoblotting analysis suggests that no accumulation of glycinebetaine in the Japonica rice plant presumably results from lack of a functional OsCMO protein.
22570076	The WRKY transcription factors have been implicated in multiple biological processes in plants, especially in regulating defense against biotic and abiotic stresses. However, little information is available about the WRKYs in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). The recent release of the whole-genome sequence of tomato allowed us to perform a genome-wide investigation for tomato WRKY proteins, and to compare these positively identified proteins with their orthologs in model plants, such as Arabidopsis and rice. In the present study, based on the recently released tomato whole-genome sequences, we identified 81 SlWRKY genes that were classified into three main groups, with the second group further divided into five subgroups. Depending on WRKY domains' sequences derived from tomato, Arabidopsis and rice, construction of a phylogenetic tree demonstrated distinct clustering and unique gene expansion of WRKY genes among the three species. Genome mapping analysis revealed that tomato WRKY genes were enriched on several chromosomes, especially on chromosome 5, and 16 % of the family members were tandemly duplicated genes. The tomato WRKYs from each group were shown to share similar motif compositions. Furthermore, tomato WRKY genes showed distinct temporal and spatial expression patterns in different developmental processes and in response to various biotic and abiotic stresses. The expression of 18 selected tomato WRKY genes in response to drought and salt stresses and Pseudomonas syringae invasion, respectively, was validated by quantitative RT-PCR. Our results will provide a platform for functional identification and molecular breeding study of WRKY genes in tomato and probably other Solanaceae plants.
22570148	Agrobacterium tumefaciens is widely utilized for delivering a foreign gene into a plant's genome. We found the bacterial transposon Tn5393 in transgenic rice plants. Analysis of the flanking sequences of the transferred-DNA (T-DNA) identified that a portion of the Tn5393 sequence was present immediately next to the end of the T-DNA. Because this transposon was present in A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404, but not in EHA105 and GV3101, our findings indicated that Tn5393 was transferred from LBA4404 into the rice genome during the transformation process. We also noted that another bacterial transposon, Tn5563, is present in transgenic plants. Analyses of 331 transgenic lines revealed that 26.0% carried Tn5393 and 2.1% contained Tn5563. In most of the lines, an intact transposon was integrated into the T-DNA and transferred to the rice chromosome. More than one copy of T-DNA was introduced into the plants, often at a single locus. This resulted in T-DNA repeats of normal and transposon-carrying TDNA that generated deletions of a portion of the T-DNA, joining the T-DNA end to the bacterial transposon. Based on these data, we suggest that one should carefully select the appropriate Agrobacterium strain to avoid undesirable transformation of such sequences.
22570445	In plants, the transition to reproductive growth is of particular importance for successful seed production. Transformation of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) to the inflorescence meristem (IM) is the crucial first step in this transition. Using laser microdissection and microarrays, we found that expression of PANICLE PHYTOMER2 (PAP2) and three APETALA1 (AP1)/FRUITFULL (FUL)-like genes (MADS14, MADS15, and MADS18) is induced in the SAM during meristem phase transition in rice (Oryza sativa). PAP2 is a MADS box gene belonging to a grass-specific subclade of the SEPALLATA subfamily. Suppression of these three AP1/FUL-like genes by RNA interference caused a slight delay in reproductive transition. Further depletion of PAP2 function from these triple knockdown plants inhibited the transition of the meristem to the IM. In the quadruple knockdown lines, the meristem continued to generate leaves, rather than becoming an IM. Consequently, multiple shoots were formed instead of an inflorescence. PAP2 physically interacts with MAD14 and MADS15 in vivo. Furthermore, the precocious flowering phenotype caused by the overexpression of Hd3a, a rice florigen gene, was weakened in pap2-1 mutants. Based on these results, we propose that PAP2 and the three AP1/FUL-like genes coordinately act in the meristem to specify the identity of the IM downstream of the florigen signal.
22570626	Brassinosteroids (BRs) regulate rice plant architecture, including leaf bending, which affects grain yield. Although BR signaling has been investigated in Arabidopsis thaliana, the components negatively regulating this pathway are less well understood. Here, we demonstrate that Oryza sativa LEAF and TILLER ANGLE INCREASED CONTROLLER (LIC) acts as an antagonistic transcription factor of BRASSINAZOLE-RESISTANT 1 (BZR1) to attenuate the BR signaling pathway. The gain-of-function mutant lic-1 and LIC-overexpressing lines showed erect leaves, similar to BZR1-depleted lines, which indicates the opposite roles of LIC and BZR1 in regulating leaf bending. Quantitative PCR revealed LIC transcription rapidly induced by BR treatment. Image analysis and immunoblotting showed that upon BR treatment LIC proteins translocate from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in a phosphorylation-dependent fashion. Phosphorylation assay in vitro revealed LIC phosphorylated by GSK3-like kinases. For negative feedback, LIC bound to the core element CTCGC in the BZR1 promoter on gel-shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay and repressed its transcription on transient transformation assay. LIC directly regulated target genes such as INCREASED LEAF INCLINATION 1 (ILI1) to oppose the action of BZR1. Repression of LIC in ILI1 transcription in protoplasts was partially rescued by BZR1. Phenotypic analysis of the crossed lines depleted in both LIC and BZR1 suggested that BZR1 functionally depends on LIC. Molecular and physiology assays revealed that LIC plays a dominant role at high BR levels, whereas BZR1 is dominant at low levels. Thus, LIC regulates rice leaf bending as an antagonistic transcription factor of BZR1. The phenotypes of lic-1 and LIC-overexpressing lines in erect leaves contribute to ideal plant architecture. Improving this phenotype may be a potential approach to molecular breeding for high yield in rice.
22571817	By screening a transposon-induced mutant library of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the bacterial blight pathogen of rice, we have identified a novel 5.241-kb open reading frame (ORF) named xadM that is required for optimum virulence and colonization. This ORF encodes a protein, XadM, of 1,746 amino acids that exhibits significant similarity to Rhs family proteins. The XadM protein contains several repeat domains similar to a wall-associated surface protein of Bacillus subtilis, which has been proposed to be involved in carbohydrate binding. The role of XadM in X. oryzae pv. oryzae adhesion was demonstrated by the impaired ability of an xadM mutant strain to attach and form biofilms. Furthermore, we show that XadM is exposed on the cell surface and its expression is regulated by growth conditions and plays an important role in the early attachment and entry inside rice leaves. Interestingly, XadM homologs are present in several diverse bacteria, including many Xanthomonas spp. and animal-pathogenic bacteria belonging to Burkholderia spp. This is the first report of a role for XadM, an Rhs family protein, in adhesion and virulence of any pathogenic bacteria.
22572927	Tandem zinc finger proteins (TZFs) in plants are involved in gene regulation, developmental responses, and hormone-mediated environmental responses in Arabidopsis. However, little information about the functions of the TZF family in monocots has been reported. Here, we investigated a cytoplasmic TZF protein, OsTZF1, which is involved in photomorphogenesis and ABA responses in rice seedlings. The OsTZF1 gene was expressed at relatively high levels in leaves and shoots, although its transcripts were detected in various organs. Red light (R)- and far-red light (FR)-mediated repression of OsTZF1 gene expression was attributed to phytochrome B (phyB) and phytochrome C (phyC), respectively. In addition, OsTZF1 expression was regulated by salt, PEG, and ABA. Overexpression of OsTZF1 caused a long leaf sheath relative to wild type (WT) under R and FR, suggesting that OsTZF1 probably acts as a negative regulator of photomorphogenesis in rice seedlings. Moreover, ABA-induced growth inhibition of rice seedlings was marked in the OsTZF1-overexpression lines compared with WT, suggesting the positive regulation of OsTZF1 to ABA responses. Genome-wide expression analysis further revealed that OsTZF1 also functions in other hormone or stress responses. Our findings supply new evidence on the functions of monocot TZF proteins in phytochrome-mediated light and hormone responses. OsTZF1 encodes a cytoplasm-localized tandem zinc finger protein and is regulated by both ABA and phytochrome-mediated light signaling. OsTZF1 functions in phytochrome-mediated light and ABA responses in rice.
2257337
22574057	Rice is a vital staple crop for Bangladesh and surrounding countries, with interannual variation in yields depending on climatic conditions. We compared Bangladesh yield of aus rice, one of the main varieties grown, from official agricultural statistics with Vegetation Health (VH) Indices [Vegetation Condition Index (VCI), Temperature Condition Index (TCI) and Vegetation Health Index (VHI)] computed from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) data covering a period of 15 years (1991-2005). A strong correlation was found between aus rice yield and VCI and VHI during the critical period of aus rice development that occurs during March-April (weeks 8-13 of the year), several months in advance of the rice harvest. Stepwise principal component regression (PCR) was used to construct a model to predict yield as a function of critical-period VHI. The model reduced the yield prediction error variance by 62% compared with a prediction of average yield for each year. Remote sensing is a valuable tool for estimating rice yields well in advance of harvest and at a low cost.
22574073	Unbalanced diets and decreased physical activity have contributed to increased prevalence of obesity and metabolic syndrome in adolescents. We have performed a systematic review and data analysis to examine the association between dietary pattern and metabolic syndrome risk factors in adolescents. We searched the PubMed and BioMedLib databases for appropriate articles published during the past 10 years and selected 6 articles. The studies reviewed applied factor analysis or cluster analysis to extract dietary patterns. For data analysis, we examined the association between dietary patterns and the prevalence of metabolic syndrome risk factors using data of 3,168 adolescents (13 to 18 years) obtained from 4 consecutive Korean Nutrition Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (1998, 2001, 2005, and 2007 to 2009). Our systematic review confirmed that western dietary patterns are positively associated with metabolic syndrome risk factors such as obesity and elevated triglycerides, while traditional dietary patterns were negatively associated. Data analysis found that the number of adolescents aged 16 to 18 years who had "Rice & Kimchi" dietary pattern decreased, while the number having western dietary patterns increased during the 1998 to 2009 time frame. There were no changes in the dietary patterns in adolescents aged 13 to 15 years. The risk of elevated serum triglycerides and reduced serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol was high in the "Rice & Kimchi" dietary pattern compared to the other dietary pattern groups. Because adolescents' dietary patterns are changing continuously and have long-term effects, further studies on the dietary patterns of adolescents and their health effects into adulthood are necessary.
22574109	Quantifying carbon (C) sequestration in paddy soils is necessary to help better understand the effect of agricultural practices on the C cycle. The objective of the present study was to assess the effects of tillage practices [conventional tillage (CT) and no-tillage (NT)] and the application of nitrogen (N) fertilizer (0 and 210 kg N ha(-1)) on fluxes of CH(4) and CO(2), and soil organic C (SOC) sequestration during the 2009 and 2010 rice growing seasons in central China. Application of N fertilizer significantly increased CH(4) emissions by 13%-66% and SOC by 21%-94% irrespective of soil sampling depths, but had no effect on CO(2) emissions in either year. Tillage significantly affected CH(4) and CO(2) emissions, where NT significantly decreased CH(4) emissions by 10%-36% but increased CO(2) emissions by 22%-40% in both years. The effects of tillage on the SOC varied with the depth of soil sampling. NT significantly increased the SOC by 7%-48% in the 0-5 cm layer compared with CT. However, there was no significant difference in the SOC between NT and CT across the entire 0-20 cm layer. Hence, our results suggest that the potential of SOC sequestration in NT paddy fields may be overestimated in central China if only surface soil samples are considered.
22574680	The high rates of rapid urban and economic growth occurring in Asia are bringing about parallel changes in both food consumption patterns and nutritional status. The aim of this study is to examine the impact of these changes on the nutritional and health status of mothers and their offspring in Vientiane, Lao PDR. Over 2 consecutive years, a follow-up study of 150 infant-mother pairs living at three different levels of urbanization was performed in Vientiane. The mothers completed a questionnaire on their eating habits. Clinical examinations and anthropometric measurements were also carried out. The results showed that, in general, the dietary energy content was low (providing only 83% of the energy requirement) and there were deficiencies in calcium, vitamin A, Folate and iron. The main energy source was rice (providing 40.9%), while 40% of the protein provided by meat and fish provided 19.8%. The differences observed in the food contribution to energy intakes and in food diversity varied with the level of urbanization. The prevalence of stunting (13.9%; CI 10.0 ∼ 18.6%) was less than that reported at the country level. Stunting was related to age, the sex of the child and the mother's physique and varied according to the level of urbanization. The level of urbanization in Vientiane influences the pace of the ongoing process of nutritional transition.
22574770	Rice internodes are vital for supporting high-yield panicles, which are controlled by various factors such as cell division, cell elongation and cell wall biosynthesis. Therefore, formation and regulation of the internode cell-producing intercalary meristem (IM) are important for determining the shape of internodes. To understand the regulation of internode development, we analysed a rice dwarf mutant, dwarf 50 (d50). Previously, we reported that parenchyma cells in the elongated internodes of d50 ectopically deposit cell wall phenolics. In this study, we revealed that D50 encodes putative inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase (5PTase), which may be involved in phosphoinositide signalling required for many essential cellular functions, such as cytoskeleton organization, endocytosis and vesicular trafficking in eukaryotes. Analysis of the rice genome revealed 20 putative 5PTases including D50. The d50 mutation induced abnormally oriented cell division, irregular deposition of cell wall pectins and thick actin bundles in the parenchyma cells of the IM, resulting in abnormally organized cell files of the internode parenchyma and dwarf phenotype. Our results suggest that the putative 5PTase, encoded by D50, is essential for IM formation, including the direction of cell division, deposition of cell wall pectins and control of actin organization.
22574796	An experiment was conducted using 17 male buffalo calves to assess the effects of plane of nutrition on slaughtering traits and meat characteristics. To attain 250 kg body weight (BW), the calves were allocated into three groups: high (H), low-high (L-H) and low (L) corresponding to concentrate levels receiving the concentrate at 1.50% of BW, 0.75% of BW until 190 kg BW and 1.50% thereafter, and 0.75% of BW, respectively. The animals had ad libitum access to urea-treated rice straw. No significant differences of hot carcass weight, dressing percentage and lean fat-bone yields were observed among the treatment groups. The L group had heavier brisket weight and lower percentage of round weight in the hot carcass than the H and L-H groups (P<0.05). The H group had heavier hearts than the L group, and the H and L-H groups had heavier livers and kidneys than the L group (P<0.05). There was no significant difference of rib eye area, pH and the contents of moisture, crude protein and fat in loin meat among the groups. The findings indicated that the effects of plane of nutrition affected the weight or percentages of some cut yields in the hot carcasses and internal organs.
22575041	Hyperglycemia produces oxidative stress, which may impair endothelial function. Methylglyoxal, a reactive intermediate metabolite of glucose, is known to cause oxidative stress and is produced when excess carbohydrate is consumed in diabetic patients, but postprandial responses in healthy patients are unknown. We hypothesize that methylglyoxal levels will cause impaired endothelial function via increased oxidative stress after consuming a high glycemic index meal in healthy animals. Normal-weight laboratory beagles (n = 6) were used in a crossover study that tested postprandial responses of 4 complex carbohydrate sources (barley, corn, peas, rice) vs a simple carbohydrate (glucose). Blood samples were taken prefeeding and at timed intervals after feeding to measure serum glucose, insulin, nitrotyrosine, and methylglyoxal. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD), cardiac function (echocardiography), and blood pressure measurements were determined before and 60 minutes after feeding. The mean (±SEM) glycemic indices of the complex carbohydrate sources were 29 ± 5 for peas, 47 ± 10 for corn, 51 ± 7 for barley, and 55 ± 6 for rice. Postprandial FMD was lowest in the glucose group and significantly different from both the corn group and the FMD value for all complex carbohydrates combined. Methylglyoxal was significantly elevated at 60 minutes postprandial after glucose compared with the other carbohydrate sources. No significant effects of carbohydrate source were observed for blood pressure, nitrotyrosine, or echocardiographic variables. The novel finding of this study was that methylglyoxal levels increased after a single feeding of simple carbohydrate and may be linked to the observed postprandial decrease in endothelial function. Thus, consuming low-glycemic-index foods may protect the cardiovascular system by reducing oxidative stress.
22575076	Strenuous aerobic exercise is known to weaken the immune system, and while many nutritional supplements have been proposed to boost post-exercise immunity, few are known to be effective. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate whether 10 d of supplementation with a defined source of baker's yeast β-glucan (BG, Wellmune WGP®) could minimise post-exercise immunosuppression. Recreationally active men and women (n 60) completed two 10 d trial conditions using a cross-over design with a 7 d washout period: placebo (rice flour) and baker's yeast BG (250 mg/d of β-1,3/1,6-glucans derived from Saccharomyces cerevisiae) before a bout of cycling (49 ± 6 min) in a hot (38 ± 2°C), humid (45 ± 2 % relative humidity) environment. Blood was collected at baseline (before supplement), pre- (PRE), post- (POST) and 2 h (2H) post-exercise. Total and subset monocyte concentration was measured by four-colour flow cytometry. Plasma cytokine levels and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated cytokine production were measured using separate multiplex assays. Total (CD14⁺) and pro-inflammatory monocyte concentrations (CD14⁺/CD16⁺) were significantly greater at POST and 2H (P<0·05) with BG supplementation. BG supplementation boosted LPS-stimulated production of IL-2, IL-4, IL-5 and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) at PRE and POST (P<0·05). Plasma IL-4, IL-5 and IFN-γ concentrations were greater at 2H following BG supplementation. It appears that 10 d of supplementation with BG increased the potential of blood leucocytes for the production of IL-2, IL-4, IL-5 and IFN-γ. The key findings of the present study demonstrate that BG may have potential to alter immunity following a strenuous exercise session.
22576095	Nearly all signal transduction pathways lead to regulation of gene expression by controlling specific transcription factors (TFs). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) is a powerful method for studying TF-DNA interactions in vivo. To identify all binding sites of a TF in the genome, the DNA obtained in ChIP experiments needs to be analyzed by hybridization to genome-tiling microarrays (ChIP-chip) or by next-generation sequencing (ChIP-seq). Here, we provide detailed protocols of ChIP for two model plant species Arabidopsis and rice, procedures of DNA sample preparation for ChIP-chip or ChIP-seq, and a general guide for computational data analysis. We have used these protocols to successfully identify direct target genes of the BZR1 TF of the brassinosteroid signaling pathway in both Arabidopsis and rice.
22576235	Aromatic rice is an important commodity for international trade, which has encouraged the interest of rice breeders to identify the genetic control of rice aroma. The recessive Os2AP gene, which is located on chromosome 8, has been reported to be associated with rice aroma. The 8-bp deletion in exon 7 is an aromatic allele that is present in most aromatic accessions, including the most popular aromatic rice varieties, Jasmine and Basmati. However, other mutations associated with aroma have been detected, but the other mutations are less frequent. In this study, we report an aromatic allele, a 3-bp insertion in exon 13 of Os2AP, as a major allele found in aromatic rice varieties from Myanmar. The insertion is in frame and causes an additional tyrosine (Y) in the amino acid sequence. However, the mutation does not affect the expression of the Os2AP gene. A functional marker for detecting this allele was developed and tested in an aroma-segregating F(2) population. The aroma phenotypes and genotypes showed perfect co-segregation of this population. The marker was also used for screening a collection of aromatic rice varieties collected from different geographical sites of Myanmar. Twice as many aromatic Myanmar rice varieties containing the 3-bp insertion allele were found as the varieties containing the 8-bp deletion allele, which suggested that the 3-bp insertion allele originated in regions of Myanmar.
22576829	Appearance quality of rice grains is a major problem for rice production in many areas of the world. We conducted a molecular marker-based genetic analysis of percentage of grains with chalkiness (PGWC), which is a determining factor for appearance quality; it strongly affects milling, eating and cooking quality. An F(8) recombinant inbred line population, which consists of 261 lines derived from a cross between Koshihikari (Japonica) and C602 (Japonica), was used for QTL mapping. Three QTLs related to PGWC were detected on chromosomes 5, 8 and 10, together explaining 50.8% of the genetic variation. The 'Koshihikari' alleles qJPGC-5, qJPGC-8 and the 'C602' alleles at qJPGC-10 were associated with reduced PGWC. The QTL contributions to phenotypic variance were 18.2, 9.6 and 25%, respectively. These QTL markers for PGWC could be used for developing improved varieties.
22578846	Pulmonary Function Tests (PFTs) like Force Vital Capacity (FVC), Force Expiratory Volume in one second (FEV₁), Peak Expiratory Flow (PEF) and Force Expiratory Flow between 25 and 75% of FVC (FEF(25-75%)) and Oxygen Saturation (SpO₂) level of 50 healthy inhabitants with respect to rice crop residue burning were investigated for three rice cultivation periods from 2007 to 2009. The subjects were residents of five sampling sites selected in Patiala city. Concentration of Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), Sulfur dioxide (SO₂), Nitrogen dioxide (NO₂) and Particulate Matter (PM) of size less than 10 and 2.5 μm (PM₁₀ and PM₂.₅) were measured by using High Volume Sampler (HVS) and Cascade Anderson Impactor. Results show that rice crop residue burning increases the pollution level in the ambient air, and PFTs undergo a significant decrease in their respective values. No significant change was seen in SpO₂ level during rice crop residue burning. In 2008, an increase of 10 μg m⁻³ in PM₂.₅, PM₁₀, SPM and NO₂ was associated significantly with decrease in FVC in percentages predicted -1.541, -1.002, -1.178, -0.232%, respectively. The decrease in air quality due to open rice crop residue burning has sub acute effect on pulmonary functions of healthy subjects and that SO₂ and NO₂ have less adverse effects on pulmonary functions than with different size Particulate Matter.
22579867	In plants, WRKY proteins constitute a large family of transcription factors. They are involved in many biological processes, such as plant development, metabolism, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. A large number of WRKY transcription factors have been reported from Arabidopsis, rice, and other higher plants. The recent publication of the draft genome sequence of castor bean (Ricinus communis) has allowed a genome-wide search for R. communis WRKY (RcWRKY) transcription factors and the comparison of these positively identified proteins with their homologs in model plants. A total of 47 WRKY genes were identified in the castor bean genome. According to the structural features of the WRKY domain, the RcWRKY are classified into seven main phylogenetic groups. Furthermore, putative orthologs of RcWRKY proteins in Arabidopsis and rice could now be assigned. An analysis of expression profiles of RcWRKY genes indicates that 47 WRKY genes display differential expressions either in their transcript abundance or expression patterns under normal growth conditions.
22579924	The study evaluates the protective potentials of wild rice against obesity and lipotoxicity induced by a high-fat/cholesterol diet in rats. In addition to the rats of low-fat diet group, others animals were exposed to a high-fat/cholesterol diet condition for 8 weeks. The city diet (CD) is based on the diet consumed by urban residents in modern China, which is rich in fat/cholesterol and high in carbohydrates from white rice and processed wheat starch. The chief source of dietary carbohydrates of wild rice diet (WRD) is from Chinese wild rice and other compositions are the same with CD. Rats fed CD showed elevated body and liver organ weights, lipid profiles, free fatty acids (FFA) and leptin comparable with rats fed high-fat/cholesterol diet (HFD) known to induce obesity and hyperlipidaemia in this species. However, rats consuming WRD suppressed the increase of lipid droplets accumulation, FFA, and leptin, and the decrease of lipoprotein lipase and adipose triglyceride lipase. Meanwhile, WRD prevented high-fat/cholesterol diet-induced elevation in protein expression of sterol-regulatory element binding protein-1c, and gene expression of fatty acid synthase and acetyl-CoA carboxylase. These findings indicate that wild rice as a natural food has the potentials of preventing obesity and liver lipotoxicity induced by a high-fat/cholesterol diet in rats.
2258052	We report the high level expression and secretion of rice alpha-amylase isozyme by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transcription of this gene was under control of the yeast enolase promoter. The synthesized protein had an approximate molecular size of 45 kDa and a pI of approx 4.7 to 5.0. The rice alpha-amylase signal peptide was recognized and efficiently processed by yeast and the active, glycosylated enzyme was secreted into the culture media. This enzyme was purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography and its enzymatic properties were characterized. The Km and Vmax were found to be similar to those of alpha-amylases from other organisms. The high level of secretion observed in these studies may be due to the unique features of the rice signal peptide and/or to the glycosylation of the recombinant enzyme.
22580709	Plant populations may contain variation that reflects adaptation to local environmental conditions. Clues to adaptive evolution of plants may be found in the genomes of species growing in diverse environments or across steep environmental gradients, and under stress. We have examined populations of wild relatives of barley and rice across diverse environmental gradients. Greater diversity, in a nuclear biotic stress defense gene and in chloroplast genes, was found in the more stressed, hotter and dryer environments. This may reflect the greater heterogeneity of these environments. Adaptation of plants to different abiotic stresses (temperatures and levels of water availability) may also require significant adaptation to the different biotic (pest and disease) pressures in these environments.
22580950	Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), a member of the Poaceae grass family, is an important food and fodder crop in arid regions and has potential for use as a C(4) biofuel. It is a model system for other biofuel grasses, including switchgrass and pearl millet. We produced a draft genome (∼423 Mb) anchored onto nine chromosomes and annotated 38,801 genes. Key chromosome reshuffling events were detected through collinearity identification between foxtail millet, rice and sorghum including two reshuffling events fusing rice chromosomes 7 and 9, 3 and 10 to foxtail millet chromosomes 2 and 9, respectively, that occurred after the divergence of foxtail millet and rice, and a single reshuffling event fusing rice chromosome 5 and 12 to foxtail millet chromosome 3 that occurred after the divergence of millet and sorghum. Rearrangements in the C(4) photosynthesis pathway were also identified.
22581008	Harpin proteins secreted by phytopathogenic bacteria have been shown to activate the plant defense pathway, which involves transduction of a hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) signal generated in the apoplast. However, the way in which harpins are recognized in the pathway and what role the apoplastic H(2)O(2) plays in plant defenses are unclear. Here, we examine whether the cellular localization of Hpa1(Xoo), a harpin protein produced by the rice bacterial leaf blight pathogen, impacts H(2)O(2) production and pathogen resistance in Arabidopsis thaliana. Transformation with the hpa1 (Xoo) gene and hpa1 (Xoo) fused to an apoplastic localization signal (shpa1 (Xoo)) generated h pa1 (Xoo)- and sh pa1 (Xoo)-expressing transgenic A . t haliana (HETAt and SHETAt) plants, respectively. Hpa1(Xoo) was associated with the apoplast in SHETAt plants but localized inside the cell in HETAt plants. In addition, Hpa1(Xoo) localization accompanied H(2)O(2) accumulation in both the apoplast and cytoplasm of SHETAt plants but only in the cytoplasm of HETAt plants. Apoplastic H(2)O(2) production via nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (NOX) located in the plasma membrane is a common feature of plant defenses. In SHETAt plants, H(2)O(2) was generated in apoplasts in a NOX-dependent manner but accumulated to a greater extent in the cytoplasm than in the apoplast. After being applied to the wild-type plant, Hpa1(Xoo) localized to apoplasts and stimulated H(2)O(2) production as in SHETAt plants. In both plants, inhibiting apoplastic H(2)O(2) generation abrogated both cytoplasmic H(2)O(2) accumulation and plant resistance to bacterial pathogens. These results suggest the possibility that the apoplastic H(2)O(2) is subject to a cytoplasmic translocation for participation in the pathogen defense.
22581231	A key step during crop domestication is the loss of seed shattering. Here, we show that seed shattering in sorghum is controlled by a single gene, Shattering1 (Sh1), which encodes a YABBY transcription factor. Domesticated sorghums harbor three different mutations at the Sh1 locus. Variants at regulatory sites in the promoter and intronic regions lead to a low level of expression, a 2.2-kb deletion causes a truncated transcript that lacks exons 2 and 3, and a GT-to-GG splice-site variant in the intron 4 results in removal of the exon 4. The distributions of these non-shattering haplotypes among sorghum landraces suggest three independent origins. The function of the rice ortholog (OsSh1) was subsequently validated with a shattering-resistant mutant, and two maize orthologs (ZmSh1-1 and ZmSh1-5.1+ZmSh1-5.2) were verified with a large mapping population. Our results indicate that Sh1 genes for seed shattering were under parallel selection during sorghum, rice and maize domestication.
22582054	Propionate is one of the major intermediary products in the anaerobic decomposition of organic matter in wetlands and paddy fields. Under methanogenic conditions, propionate is decomposed through syntrophic interaction between proton-reducing and propionate-oxidizing bacteria and H(2)-consuming methanogens. Temperature is an important environmental regulator; yet its effect on syntrophic propionate oxidation has been poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the syntrophic oxidation of propionate in a rice field soil at 15°C and 30°C. [U-(13)C]propionate (99 atom%) was applied to anoxic soil slurries, and the bacteria and archaea assimilating (13)C were traced by DNA-based stable isotope probing. Syntrophobacter spp., Pelotomaculum spp., and Smithella spp. were found significantly incorporating (13)C into their nucleic acids after [(13)C]propionate incubation at 30°C. The activity of Smithella spp. increased in the later stage, and concurrently that of Syntrophomonas spp. increased. Aceticlastic Methanosaetaceae and hydrogenotrophic Methanomicrobiales and Methanocellales acted as methanogenic partners at 30°C. Syntrophic oxidation of propionate also occurred actively at 15°C. Syntrophobacter spp. were significantly labeled with (13)C, whereas Pelotomaculum spp. were less active at this temperature. In addition, Methanomicrobiales, Methanocellales, and Methanosarcinaceae dominated the methanogenic community, while Methanosaetaceae decreased. Collectively, temperature markedly influenced the activity and community structure of syntrophic guilds degrading propionate in the rice field soil. Interestingly, Geobacter spp. and some other anaerobic organisms like Rhodocyclaceae, Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Thermomicrobia probably also assimilated propionate-derived (13)C. The mechanisms for the involvement of these organisms remain unclear.
22582148	T-urf13, a well-documented cms-associated gene from maize, has been shown to render methomyl sensitivity to heterologous systems like rice, yeast and bacteria when expressed constitutively. Since these transgenic plants were fertile, it was hypothesized that T-urf13 gene if expressed in anthers may result in male sterility that could be used for hybrid seed production. Hence, this work was aimed at analysing whether T-urf13 gene when expressed in anthers can result in male sterile plants or requires methomyl treatment to cause male sterility (controllable). This is the first report of transformation of tobacco with T-urf13 gene under anther-specific promoter (TA29) with or without mitochondrial targeting sequence. Most of the transgenic plants obtained were fertile; this was surprising as many male sterile plants were expected as T-urf13 gene is a cms associated gene. Our results suggest that it may not be possible to obtain male sterility by expressing URF13 in the anther by itself or by methomyl application.
22582149	Thermostable and alkalitolerant xylanases have got intense research focus due to their vast applications in various industries including pulp and paper, food, feed, textile, biofuel, etc. In the present investigation, a Penicillum sp. SS1 isolated from degrading woody material was found to produce moderately thermoactive and alkalistable endo-β-1,4-xylanase (xylanase). Maximum xylanase production was observed after fourth day of fermentation (43.84 IU/ml). The organism produced substantial quantities of xylanase using agricultural residues like wheat bran (20.6 IU/ml), rice bran (21.8 IU/ml) and sawdust (10.7 IU/ml) as carbon sources. The enzyme preparation was totally free of filter paper activity (FPase) and possessed negligible carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase) activity; this could be an important feature of enzyme if the intended application of enzyme is in pulp and paper industries. Among nitrogen sources examined, yeast extract supported maximum xylanase production (45.74 IU/ml), and was followed by soybean meal (22.2 IU/ml) and ammonium sulphate (20 IU/ml). Maximum xylanase production was observed at initial medium pH 9 (25.6 IU/ml); however, at pH 8 and 10 also significantly high enzyme titre was observed (24 and 21.2 IU/ml, respectively). Thus, Penicillium sp. SS1 displayed capability of growing and producing xylanase at high alkaline pH (8-10). Maximum xylanase activity was reported at 50 °C, however, significantly high activity was observed at 60 °C (65.4%), however, at 70-80 °C activity was lost considerably. At 50-60 °C the enzyme retained very high activity up to 30-60 min (91-100%), however, prolonged incubation (90 min) caused considerable activity reduction (residual activity 63-68%).
22582989	The indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) content of developing grains of Oryza sativa subsp. japonica was measured by combined liquid chromatography, tandem mass spectrometry in multiple-reaction-monitoring mode. The increase from 50 ng g(-1) fresh weight to 2.9 µg g(-1) fresh weight from 1 to 14 days after pollination was much larger than that previously reported by enzyme-linked immunoassay methods. The largest increase in IAA content coincided with the start of the major starch deposition phase of grain-fill. The increase in IAA content was strongly correlated with the expression of putative IAA biosynthesis genes, OsYUC9, OsYUC11 and OsTAR1, measured by quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. These results confirm the importance of the tryptophan aminotransferase/YUCCA pathway in this system. All three genes were expressed in endosperm; expression of OsYUC11 appeared to be confined to endosperm tissue. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that OsYUC11 and AtYUC10 belong to a separate clade of YUCCAs, which do not have orthologues outside the Angiosperms. This clade may have evolved with a specific role in endosperm. Expression of tryptophan decarboxylase in developing rice grains did not correlate with IAA levels, indicating that tryptamine is unlikely to be important for IAA synthesis in this system. In light of these observations, we hypothesize that IAA production in developing rice grains is controlled via expression of OsTAR1, OsYUC9, OsYUC11 and that IAA may be important during starch deposition in addition to its previously suggested role early in grain development.
22583048
22583119	Koji are solid-state fermentation products made by inoculating steamed grains with the spores of fungi, particularly Aspergillus spp. This research was undertaken to identify the fermentation and storage conditions optimal for the production and maintenance of selected hydrolytic enzymes, such as α-amlyase and protease, in koji. Steamed rice and barley were inoculated with 2 × 10 ¹¹ Aspergillus oryzae spores per kilogram of grains and fermented for 118 h in a growth chamber at 28 to 32 °C with controlled relative humidities. Samples were drawn periodically during fermentation and storage at -20, 4, or 32 °C, and α-amylase and protease activity, mold counts, a(w), moisture contents, and pH of collected samples were determined. It was observed that the a(w), moisture contents, and pH of the koji were influenced by the duration of fermentation and temperature of storage. The α-amylase activity of both koji increased as the populations of A. oryzae increased during the exponential growth phase. The enzyme activity of barley koji was significantly higher than that of rice koji, reaching a peak activity of 211.87 or 116.57 U at 46 and 58 h, respectively, into the fermentation process. The enzyme activity in both products started to decrease once the mold culture entered the stationary growth phase. The protease activities of both koji were low and remained relatively stable during fermentation and storage. These results suggest that rice and barley koji can be used as sources of α-amylase and desired enzyme activity can be achieved by controlling the fermentation and storage conditions. Amylases and proteases are 2 important hydrolytic enzymes. In the food industry, these enzymes are used to break down starches and proteins while reducing the viscosity of foods. Although amylases and proteases are found in plants and animals, commercial enzymes are often produced using bacteria or molds through solid state fermentation, which is designed to use natural microbial process to produce enzymes in a controlled environment. A properly produced and maintained koji with a high hydrolytic enzyme activity can serve as an important source of the enzymes for the food industry.
22583226	Within the B̃ absorption band of CH(2)BrCl, we theoretically analyze the laser-induced control of the Br/Cl branching ratio, Br + CH(2)Cl ← CH(2)BrCl → CH(2)Br + Cl, with CH(2)BrCl initially in its vibrational ground state. For weak-field excitation, the Br/Cl branching ratio increases as a function of wavelength, however, for wavelengths below 180 nm the branching ratio cannot be made smaller than 0.4. Using optimal control theory, we show that the branching ratio can be made significantly less than 0.4, only when very strong fields are employed. Thus, the present work strongly suggests that a Tannor-Rice type laser control mechanism for selective bond breakage in CH(2)BrCl cannot take place without accompanying photoionization.
22583675	The present study assessed the impact of the 2009 food packages mandated by the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) on perceived sales, product selection and stocking habits of small, WIC-authorized food stores. A cross-sectional study involving in-depth interviews with store managers/owners. Small, WIC-authorized food stores in eight major cities in the USA. Fifty-two store managers/owners who had at least 1 year of experience in the store prior to study participation. The WIC-approved food products (fresh, canned and frozen fruits; fresh, canned and frozen vegetables; wholegrain/whole-wheat bread; white corn/whole-wheat tortillas; brown rice; lower-fat milk (<2 %)) were acquired in multiple ways, although acquisition generally occurred 1-2 times/week. Factors such as customer requests (87 %), refrigerator/freezer availability (65 %) and profitability (71 %) were rated as very important when making stocking decisions. Most managers/owners perceived increases in sales of new WIC-approved foods including those considered most profitable (wholegrain/whole-wheat bread (89 %), lower-fat milk (89 %), white corn/whole wheat tortillas (54 %)), but perceived no changes in sales of processed fruits and vegetables. Supply mechanisms and frequency of supply acquisition were only moderately associated with perceived sales increases. Regardless of type or frequency of supply acquisition, perceived increases in sales provided some evidence for the potential sustainability of these WIC policy efforts and translation of this policy-based strategy to other health promotion efforts aimed at improving healthy food access in underserved communities.
22583826	OsSYP71 is an oxidative stress and rice blast response gene that encodes a Qc-SNARE protein in rice. Qc-SNARE proteins belong to the superfamily of SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors), which function as important components of the vesicle trafficking machinery in eukaryotic cells. In this paper, 12 Qc-SNARE genes were isolated from rice, and expression patterns of 9 genes were detected in various tissues and in seedlings challenged with oxidative stresses and inoculated with rice blast. The expression of OsSYP71 was clearly up-regulated under these stresses. Overexpression of OsSYP71 in rice showed more tolerance to oxidative stress and resistance to rice blast than wild-type plants. These results indicate that Qc-SNAREs play an important role in rice response to environmental stresses, and OsSYP71 is useful in engineering crop plants with enhanced tolerance to oxidative stress and resistance to rice blast.
22583915	Dietary rice bran consists of many bioactive components with disease fighting properties; including the capacity to modulate the gut microbiota. Studies point to the important roles of the gut microbiota and the mucosal epithelium in the establishment of protection against enteric pathogens, such as Salmonella. The ability of rice bran to reduce the susceptibility of mice to a Salmonella infection has not been previously investigated. Therefore, we hypothesized that the incorporation of rice bran into the diet would inhibit the colonization of Salmonella in mice through the induction of protective mucosal responses. Mice were fed diets containing 0%, 10% and 20% rice bran for one week prior to being orally infected with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. We found that mice consuming the 10 and 20% rice bran diets exhibited a reduction in Salmonella fecal shedding for up to nine days post-infection as compared to control diet fed animals (p < 0.05). In addition, we observed decreased concentrations of the pro-inflammatory cytokines, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and IL-12 (p < 0.05) as well as increased colonization of native Lactobacillus spp. in rice bran fed mice (p < 0.05). Furthermore, in vitro experiments revealed the ability of rice bran extracts to reduce Salmonella entry into mouse small intestinal epithelial cells. Increasing rice bran consumption represents a novel dietary means for reducing susceptibility to enteric infection with Salmonella and potentially via induction of native Lactobacillus spp.
22585409	In a species, the miRNA repertoire comprises many lineage- or species-specific miRNAs. Using deep sequencing, the whole transcriptome of seedling roots was studied and a total of 18 novel miRNAs in indica rice Minghui 86 were identified. Among these novel miRNAs six were up-regulated and two were down-regulated under arsenite stress. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed that miR6254 was predominantly expressed in roots relative to other tissues, whereas miR6250 and miR169i-3p were constitutively expressed in all tissues examined, with high abundance in roots (miR6250) or leaves (miR169i-3p). The miR6250 and miR169i-3p miRNAs also exhibited distinct expression patterns in rice cultivars Minghui 86 and Nipponbare at different time points after arsenite treatment. The predicted targets for these miRNAs included some protein kinases, DNA, or ATP-binding proteins. Besides arsenite, the expression of targets of miR6250 and miR6254 was also up- or down-regulated in response to abiotic environmental stresses, indicative of their involvement in regulation of plant adaptation. Three types of cis-elements involved in hormone, light, and stress response were found to occur frequently in the promoter regions. Interestingly, miR6254 was originally characterized to be an exonic miRNA located in the exon of AK101391, supporting the notion that miRNAs may also originate from some exons in plants.
22585748	Oxygen deprivation limits the energy available for cellular processes and yet no comprehensive ATP budget has been reported for any plant species under O(2) deprivation, including Oryza sativa. Using 3-d-old coleoptiles of a cultivar of O. sativa tolerant to flooding at germination, (i) rates of ATP regeneration in coleoptiles grown under normoxia (aerated solution), hypoxia (3% O(2)), and anoxia (N(2)) and (ii) rates of synthesis of proteins, lipids, nucleic acids, and cell walls, as well as K(+) transport, were determined. Based on published bioenergetics data, the cost of synthesizing each class of polymer and the proportion of available ATP allocated to each process were then compared. Protein synthesis consumed the largest proportion of ATP synthesized under all three oxygen regimes, with the proportion of ATP allocated to protein synthesis in anoxia (52%) more than double that in normoxic coleoptiles (19%). Energy allocation to cell wall synthesis was undiminished in hypoxia, consistent with preferential elongation typical of submerged coleoptiles. Lipid synthesis was also conserved strongly in O(2) deficits, suggesting that membrane integrity was maintained under anoxia, thus allowing K(+) to be retained within coleoptile cells. Rates of protein synthesis in coleoptiles from rice cultivars with contrasting tolerance to oxygen deficits (including mutants deficient in fermentative enzymes) confirmed that synthesis and turnover of proteins always accounted for most of the ATP consumed under anoxia. It is concluded that successful establishment of rice seedlings under water is largely due to the capacity of coleoptiles to allocate energy to vital processes, particularly protein synthesis.
22586959	To approach the action mechanisms of desulfurization waste on alleviating alkali stress-induced injury of rice, a pot experiment was conducted to study the variations of leaf total calcium content, calcium distribution, plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase activity, and reactive oxygen content of rice seedlings under alkali stress after the application of desulfurization waste. In the control, a few calcium particulates scattered in the cell wall and chloroplasts, while applying desulfurization waste or CaSO4 increased the calcium particulates in the plasma membrane, intercellular space, cell wall, and vacuole significantly. With the increasing application rate of desulfurization waste or CaSO4, the leaf total calcium content increased, Ca(2+)-ATPase activity in plasma membrane and tonoplast presented an increasing trend, plasma membrane relative permeability, MDA content, and O2 production rate decreased, and SOD and POD activities increased. The desulfurization waste could relieve the alkali stress to rice in some extent, and the main reactive compound in the waste could be CaSO4.
22586961	A pot experiment with the yellow soil and limestone soil from Guizhou province, and paddy soil from Zhejiang Province was conducted to study the impacts of applying municipal sewage sludge containing different concentrations of heavy metals on the wheat and rice growth and their Zn and Cd absorption. The risks of the crop heavy metals pollution caused by the application of the same sludge differed with tested soils. On the yellow soil and paddy soil, applying the sludge containing high concentration heavy metals induced higher pollution risks to the crops. Applying the sludge 1.6% in dry mass and containing 1789 mg x kg(-1) of Zn and 8.47 mg x kg(-1) of Cd to yellow soil made the Zn and Cd concentrations in wheat grains reached 109 and 0.08 mg x kg(-1), and after the second time application of the same dosage of this sludge after rice planting, the Zn and Cd concentrations in brown rice reached 52.0 and 0.54 mg x kg(-1), respectively. However, applying the sludge to calcareous soil had no pollution risk to the edible parts of wheat and rice. Soil NH4OAc-extractable Zn was the main factor affecting the Zn concentration in wheat grain and brown rice, but soil NH4OAc-extractable Cd had less effect on the Cd concentration in wheat grain and brown nce. Applying the sludge containing high concentration Zn and Cd to the three soils made the concentrations of total Zn and Cd in the soils increased significantly, and after the first time and the second time of the application, the total Zn concentration in the soils all exceeded the 2nd level of the national soil environmental quality standards.
22586962	A pot experiment was carried out to investigate the effects of three organic amendments (organic carbon material, rapeseed cake, and pig manure) on the growth and heavy metal uptake of rice on a heavy metal mixed contaminated paddy soil. Applying rapeseed cake and pig manure could mitigate the toxic effect of heavy metals on rice plant. The two organic amendments increased the shoot biomass and grain yield significantly, and decreased the heavy metal concentration in brown rice. Under the application of organic carbon material, rice growth was inhibited. As compared with the control, applying rapeseed cake and pig manure increased the grain yield by 128.3% and 67.9%, and decreased the Cd, Cu, and Zn concentrations in brown rice by 47.6%, 35.2% and 21.5%, and 9.5%, 21.2% and 9.3%, respectively. The shoot biomass and its total accumulation of Cd, Cu, and Zn had significant negative correlations with the soil DTPA-extractable heavy metals.
22586968	To clarify the leading climate factors affecting the distribution of single cropping rice planting region in China at national and annual temporal scales and to reveal the potential distribution and climatic suitability divisions of this planting region in China could not only provide scientific basis for optimizing the allocation of single cropping rice production, modifying planting pattern, and introducing fine varieties, but also ensure the food security of China. In this paper, the potential climate factors affecting the single cropping rice distribution in China at regional and annual scales were selected from related literatures, and the single cropping rice geographic information from the national agro-meteorological observation stations of China Meteorological Administration (CMA), together with the maximum entropy model (MaxEnt) and spatial analyst function of Arc-GIS software, were adopted to clarify the leading climate factors affecting the potential distribution of single cropping rice planting region in China, and to construct a model about the relationships between the potential distribution of the planting region and the climate. The results showed that annual precipitation, moisture index, and days of not less than 18 degrees C stably were the leading climate factors affecting the potential distribution of single cropping rice planting region in China, with their cumulative contribution rate reached 94.5% of all candidate climate factors. The model constructed in this paper could well simulate the potential distribution of single cropping rice planting region in China. According to the appearance frequency, the low, medium and high climatic suitability divisions of single cropping rice planting region in China were clarified, and the climate characteristics of the planting region in each climatic suitability division were analyzed.
22586969	This paper studied the variations of soil microbial biomass C, N, and P contents and soil hydrolase activities under different cropping modes, i.e., corn + sweet potato intercropping (CS), soybean mono-cropping (SM), continuous cropping of ginger (CG), and rice-milk vetch rotation (RM) , after ginger planting in the purple soil area at the lower reaches of Minjiang River. Ginger planting decreased the soil microbial biomass C, N and P contents significantly. The decrement of the soil microbial biomass C and N contents after ginger planting was lesser under CS and RM than under SM and CG, but the soil microbial biomass P content was in adverse. Ginger planting also decreased the soil acid phosphatase activity significantly, and the decrement was the greatest under CS but the least under RM. The soil invertase activity decreased significantly under CG, and the soil urease activity had a significant decrease under SM, CG and RM. After ginger planting, the soil urease and intervase activities under CS were higher, as compared with those under the other cropping modes.
22587395	The diversity and density of methanogenic archaea and methane production were investigated ex situ at different growth stages of rice plant cultivated in compost-treated tropical rice fields. The qPCR analysis revealed variation in methanogens population from 3.40 × 10(6) to 1.11 × 10(7) copies g(-1) dws, in the year 2009 and 4.37 × 10(6) to 1.36 × 10(7) copies g(-1) dws in the year 2010. Apart from methanogens, a large number of bacterial (9.60 × 10(9) -1.44 × 10(10) copies g(-1) dws) and archaeal (7.13 × 10(7) -3.02 × 10(8) copies g(-1) dws) communities were also associated with methanogenesis. Methanogen population size varied in the order: flowering > ripening > tillering > postharvest > preplantation stage. The RFLP-based 16S rRNA gene-targeted phylogenetic analysis showed that clones were closely related to diverse group of methanogens comprising members of Methanomicrobiaceae, Methanosarcinaceae, Methanosaetaceae and RC I. Laboratory incubation studies revealed higher amount of cumulative CH(4) at the flowering stage. The integration of methanogenic community structure and CH(4) production potential of soil resulted in a better understanding of the dynamics of CH(4) production in organically treated rice-field soil. The hypothesis that the stages of plant development influence the methanogenic community structure leading to temporal variation in the CH(4) production has been successfully tested.
22587420	Japanese encephalitis (JE) is the single largest cause of viral encephalitis in the world and has been endemic in Nepal since the early 1980s. Since then, it has spread from its origins in lowland plains to the Kathmandu Valley as well as in hill and mountain districts. Pigs are amplifying hosts for the virus. The Nepal government has been encouraging the development of pig farming as a means of poverty alleviation. Whereas other countries have reduced JE through vaccination programmes and improvements in pig husbandry, these options are not economically possible in Nepal. The objective of this study was to examine the occupational risk of pig farmers in Nepal and to determine their level of knowledge and practice of JE prevention techniques. We surveyed 100 randomly selected pig farmers in the Kathmandu District and found that pig farmers were exposed to many JE risk factors including poverty and close proximity to pigs, rice paddy fields and water birds, which are the definitive hosts for the virus. Forty-two percent of the farmers had heard of JE, 20% associated it with mosquito bites and 7% named pigs as risk factors. Few protective measures were taken. None of the farmers were vaccinated against JE nor were any pigs, despite an ongoing human vaccination campaign. This farming community had little ownership of land and limited education. JE education programmes must consider gender differences in access to public health information as there were an equal number of male and female farmers. We provide findings that can inform future JE education programmes for this vulnerable population.
22588217	Chlorpyrifos is the most common organophosphate compound registered for agricultural use in Vietnam. The aim of this study was to evaluate chlorpyrifos exposure to rice farmers in Vietnam, using a probabilistic approach. Urine samples on a 24-h basis were collected from farmers before and post application of pesticide. Samples were analysed for 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP), the major urinary metabolite of chlorpyrifos, using an enzymatic pre-treatment for extraction and HPLC-MS/MS. Absorbed daily doses (ADD) of chlorpyrifos for farmers were subsequently estimated from the urinary TCP levels. The baseline and post-application exposure levels were evaluated at the 5th, 50th, and 95th percentile representing low, medium and high-exposure groups in the population. Regression analysis was applied to examine the association between exposure level and factors. The baseline exposure level, which ranged from 0.03 to 1.98 μg/kg/day was below the chronic guidelines recommended by international and national bodies. However, the post-application exposure level, which ranged from 0.35 to 94 μg/kg/day exceeded most of the acute guidelines at the 95th percentile level. Multivariate analysis provided strong evidence for a relationship between post-application exposure level and amount of chlorpyrifos used, as well as body coverage of personal protective equipment.
22589467	Paddy rice (Oryza sativa) is able to accumulate high concentrations of Mn without showing toxicity; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying Mn uptake are unknown. Here, we report that a member of the Nramp (for the Natural Resistance-Associated Macrophage Protein) family, Nramp5, is involved in Mn uptake and subsequently the accumulation of high concentrations of Mn in rice. Nramp5 was constitutively expressed in the roots and encodes a plasma membrane-localized protein. Nramp5 was polarly localized at the distal side of both exodermis and endodermis cells. Knockout of Nramp5 resulted in a significant reduction in growth and grain yield, especially when grown at low Mn concentrations. This growth reduction could be partially rescued by supplying high concentrations of Mn but not by the addition of Fe. Mineral analysis showed that the concentration of Mn and Cd in both the roots and shoots was lower in the knockout line than in wild-type rice. A short-term uptake experiment revealed that the knockout line lost the ability to take up Mn and Cd. Taken together, Nramp5 is a major transporter of Mn and Cd and is responsible for the transport of Mn and Cd from the external solution to root cells.
22589729	To search for virulence effector genes of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, we carried out a large-scale targeted disruption of genes for 78 putative secreted proteins that are expressed during the early stages of infection of M. oryzae. Disruption of the majority of genes did not affect growth, conidiation, or pathogenicity of M. oryzae. One exception was the gene MC69. The mc69 mutant showed a severe reduction in blast symptoms on rice and barley, indicating the importance of MC69 for pathogenicity of M. oryzae. The mc69 mutant did not exhibit changes in saprophytic growth and conidiation. Microscopic analysis of infection behavior in the mc69 mutant revealed that MC69 is dispensable for appressorium formation. However, mc69 mutant failed to develop invasive hyphae after appressorium formation in rice leaf sheath, indicating a critical role of MC69 in interaction with host plants. MC69 encodes a hypothetical 54 amino acids protein with a signal peptide. Live-cell imaging suggested that fluorescently labeled MC69 was not translocated into rice cytoplasm. Site-directed mutagenesis of two conserved cysteine residues (Cys36 and Cys46) in the mature MC69 impaired function of MC69 without affecting its secretion, suggesting the importance of the disulfide bond in MC69 pathogenicity function. Furthermore, deletion of the MC69 orthologous gene reduced pathogenicity of the cucumber anthracnose fungus Colletotrichum orbiculare on both cucumber and Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. We conclude that MC69 is a secreted pathogenicity protein commonly required for infection of two different plant pathogenic fungi, M. oryzae and C. orbiculare pathogenic on monocot and dicot plants, respectively.
22590636	Metabolic syndrome (MS) is prevalent in recent years but few data is reported in the rural areas in China. The aim of this study was to examine MS prevalence and its risk factors among women in rural China. The Nantong Metabolic Syndrome Study (NMSS), a population based cross-sectional study, was conducted during 2007-2008 in Nantong, China. In person interviews, blood glucose and lipid measurements were completed for 13,505 female participants aged 18-74 years. The International Diabetes Federation (IDF), the US Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program, the Adult Treatment Panel (ATPIII) and modified ATPIII for Asian population has determined three criteria of MS. These criteria for MS were used and compared in this study. The prevalence of MS was 22.0%, 16.9% and 23.3% according to IDF, ATPIII and ATPIII-modified criteria, respectively. Levels of agreement of these criteria for MS were above 0.75. We found that vigorous-intensity of occupational physical activity was associated with a low prevalence of MS with OR of 0.76 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.63-0.91). Rice wine drinkers (alcohol >12.8 g/day) had about 34% low risks of developing MS with OR of 0.66 (95% CI: 0.48-0.91), compared with non-drinkers. Odds ratio of MS was 1.81 (95% CI: 1.15-2.84) in women who smoked more than 20 pack-years, compared to non-smokers. Odds ratio of MS was 1.56 (95% CI: 1.25-1.95) in women who had familial history of diseases, including hypertension, diabetes and stroke, compared to women without familial history of those diseases. MS is highly prevalent among women in rural China. Both physical activity and rice wine consumption play a protective role, while family history and smoking are risk factors in MS development. Educational programs should be established for promoting healthy lifestyles and appropriate interventions in rural China.
22590655	Plant-plant interference is the combined effect of allelopathy, resource competition, and many other factors. Separating allelopathy from resource competition is almost impossible in natural systems but it is important to evaluate the relative contribution of each of the two mechanisms on plant interference. Research on allelopathy in natural and cultivated plant communities has been hindered in the absence of a reliable method that can separate allelopathic effect from resource competition. In this paper, the interactions between allelopathic rice accession PI312777, non-allelopathic rice accession Lemont and barnyardgrass were explored respectively by using a target (rice)-neighbor (barnyardgrass) mixed-culture in hydroponic system. The relative competitive intensity (RCI), the relative neighbor effect (RNE) and the competitive ratio (CR) were used to quantify the intensity of competition between each of the two different potentially allelopathic rice accessions and barnyardgrass. Use of hydroponic culture system enabled us to exclude any uncontrolled factors that might operate in the soil and we were able to separate allelopathy from resource competition between each rice accession and barnyardgrass. The RCI and RNE values showed that the plant-plant interaction was positive (facilitation) for PI312777 but that was negative (competition) for Lemont and barnyardgrass in rice/barnyardgrass mixed-cultures. The CR values showed that one PI312777 plant was more competitive than 2 barnyardgrass plants. The allelopathic effects of PI312777 were much more intense than the resource competition in rice/barnyardgrass mixed cultures. The reverse was true for Lemont. These results demonstrate that the allelopathic effect of PI312777 was predominant in rice/barnyardgrass mixed-cultures. The most significant result of our study is the discovery of an experimental design, target-neighbor mixed-culture in combination with competition indices, can successfully separate allelopathic effects from competition.
22590857	To understand the epidemic trend of schistosomiasis in Sichuan Province so as to provide the evidence for formulating schistosomiasis control strategy. According to the National Schistosomiasis Surveillance Protocol, the national surveillance sites in Sichuan Province were selected. The schistosomiasis surveillance was carried out continuously from 2005 to 2010. Nine national schistosomiasis surveillance sites were established in Pujiang, Guanghan, Zhongjiang, Fucheng, Dongpo, Danling, Renshou, Xichang and Dechang counties. The Oncomelania hupensis snail area decreased from 351 853 m2 in 2005 to 128 285 m2 in 2010, the snail density from 0.70 to 0.21 per 0.1 m2, the snail infection rate from 0.06% to 0, the positive rate of human serum schistosome antibody from 19.41% to 7.62%, the schistosome infection rate of human population from 1.93% to 0.10%, and the infection rate of livestock from 4.50% to 1.02%. The snails were found mainly in ditch, rice field and other moist field. Though the endemic of schistosomiasis has reached a low level in Sichuan Province, the endemic situation fluctuates at a narrow range in some surveillance sites. Therefore, the surveillance work should be carried out continuously.
22590874	To investigate the effects of intermittent irrigation in paddy fields on mosquito control and the impact on growth and yield of rice. The paddy fields were divided into an experimental group and a control group. In the same context of other measures, the experimental group was performed with intermittent irrigation and the control group with conventional irrigation. The densities of larvae of Anopheles sinensis and Culex tritaeniorhynchus were surveyed by the suction trapping method. The plant traits, leaf age process, tiller dynamics, yield structure and actual rice production were observed. Compared with the control group, the average densities of larvae of Anopheles sinensis and Culex tritaeniorhynchus were reduced of 10.32/m2 and 13.93/m2 respectively in the experimental group, the control rates were 79.84% and 72.14% respectively, the average yield increased of 22.5 kg/667 m2, water conservation was 187.4 m3/667 m2, and the increased revenue was 75.78 yuan/667 m2. The intermittent irrigation in paddy fields not only can control mosquito larva breeding effectively, but also save water and electricity, and increase the harvest.
22591849	Two Ultisols and one Oxisol from tropical regions of southern China were incubated with rice straw biochar to investigate the effect of biochar on their surface charge and Pb(II) adsorption using batch methods. The incorporation of biochar induced a remarkable increase in soil cation exchange capacity after 30 d of incubation. The incorporation of biochar significantly increased the adsorption of Pb(II) by these variable charge soils; the enhancement of adsorption of Pb(II) by these soils increased with the addition level of biochar. Adsorption of Pb(II) involved both electrostatic and non-electrostatic mechanisms; however, biochar mainly increased Pb(II) adsorption through the non-electrostatic mechanism via the formation of surface complexes between Pb(2+) and functional groups on biochar. There was greater enhancement of biochar on the non-electrostatic adsorption of Pb(II) by the variable charge soils at relatively low pH. Therefore, the incorporation of biochar decreased the activity and availability of Pb(II) to plants through increased non-electrostatic adsorption of Pb(II) by acidic variable charge soils.
22592657	Fifteen gene-containing BACs with accumulated length of 1.82-Mb from the Rht-D1b locus region were sequenced and compared in detail with the orthologous regions of rice, sorghum, and maize. Our results show that Rht-D1b represents a conserved genomic region as implied by high gene sequence identity, good maintenance of gene colinearity, and the presence of multiple conserved noncoding sequences (CNSs) that are shared by other grass species. Eight cis-regulatory elements in these CNSs around grass DELLA genes were detected.
22592658	The dominant rice blast resistance gene, Pi54 confers resistance to Magnaporthe oryzae in different parts of India. In our effort to identify more effective forms of this gene, we isolated an orthologue of Pi54 named as Pi54rh from the blast-resistant wild species of rice, Oryza rhizomatis, using allele mining approach and validated by complementation. The Pi54rh belongs to CC-NBS-LRR family of disease resistance genes with a unique Zinc finger (C(3)H type) domain. The 1,447 bp Pi54rh transcript comprises of 101 bp 5'-UTR, 1,083 bp coding region and 263 bp 3'-UTR, driven by pathogen inducible promoter. We showed the extracellular localization of Pi54rh protein and the presence of glycosylation, myristoylation and phosphorylation sites which implicates its role in signal transduction process. This is in contrast to other blast resistance genes that are predicted to be intracellular NBS-LRR-type resistance proteins. The Pi54rh was found to express constitutively at basal level in the leaves, but upregulates 3.8-fold at 96 h post-inoculation with the pathogen. Functional validation of cloned Pi54rh gene using complementation test showed high degree of resistance to seven isolates of M. oryzae collected from different geographical locations of India. In this study, for the first time, we demonstrated that a rice blast resistance gene Pi54rh cloned from wild species of rice provides broad spectrum resistance to M. oryzae hence can be used in rice improvement breeding programme.
22592958	Transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants expressing the Pns11 protein of rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV) displayed multiple abnormal phenotypes, some of which were highly reminiscent of the symptoms observed in RGDV-infected rice. Further analysis indicated that the apparent alterations in plant growth and morphology were correlated with the expression levels of microRNA160, microRNA162, microRNA167, microRNA168, and the microRNA target OsARF8. Especially, the striking dwarfing phenotype depended on the high expression level of microRNA167. By analogy to other categories of plant viruses, the RNA silencing suppressors encoded by plant dsRNA viruses function as pathogenicity determinants. These findings significantly deepen our current mechanistic understanding of the RNA silencing suppressor (VSR) encoded by a dsRNA virus and provide additional evidence that interference with microRNA expression is a VSR function utilized by a diverse range of viruses.
22593226	In plants, the genome of the host responds to the amplification of transposable elements (TEs) with DNA methylation. However, neither the factors involved in TE methylation nor the dynamics of the host-TE interaction are well resolved. Here, we identify 5,522 long terminal repeat retrotransposons (LTR-RT) in the genome of Oryza sativa ssp. japonica and then assess methylation for individual elements. Our analyses uncover three strong trends: long LTR-RTs are more highly methylated, the insertion times of LTR-RTs are negatively correlated with methylation, and young LTR-RTs tend to be closer to genes than older insertions. Additionally, a phylogenetic examination of the gypsy-like LTR-RT superfamily revealed that methylation is phylogenetically correlated. Given these observations, we present a model suggesting that the phylogenetic correlation among related LTR-RTs is a primary mechanism driving methylation. In this model, bursts of transposition produce new elements with high sequence similarity. The host machinery identifies proliferating elements as well as closely related LTR-RTs through cross-homology. In addition, our data are consistent with previous hypotheses that methylated LTR-RT elements are removed preferentially from regions near genes, explaining some of the observed age distribution.
22593700	Direct amplified length polymorphism (DALP) combines the advantages of a high-resolution fingerprint method and also characterizing the genetic polymorphisms. This molecular method was also found to be useful in brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens species complex for the analysis of genetic polymorphisms. A total of 11 populations of Nilaparvata spp. were collected from 6 locations from Malaysia. Two sympatric populations of brown planthopper, N. lugens, one from rice and the other from a weed grass (Leersia hexandra), were collected from each of five locations. N. bakeri was used as an out group. Three oligonucleotide primer pairs, DALP231/DALPR'5, DALP234/DALPR'5, and DALP235/DALPR'5 were applied in this study. The unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) dendrogram based on genetic distances for the 11 populations of Nilaparvata spp. revealed that populations belonging to the same species and the same host type clustered together irrespective of their geographical localities of capture. The populations of N. lugens formed into two distinct clusters, one was insects with high esterase activities usually captured from rice and the other was with low esterase activities usually captured from L. hexandra. N. bakeri, an out group, was the most isolated group. Analyses of principal components, molecular variance, and robustness also supported greatly to the findings of cluster analysis.
22593705	A study was carried out to identify microbiological hazards and assess their exposure associated with consumption of poultry based street food served in different localities of Hyderabad. The study indicated that chicken 65, chicken fried rice, chicken noodles, chicken Manchuria and chilly chicken are the most common recipes. A process flow diagram was developed to identify critical control points in the food item. After analysis of the samples at each level of preparation, it was observed that rice and noodles were kept at room temperature for about 5-6 hrs which was a critical control point. A total of 376 samples including chicken fried rice, chicken noodles, boiled noodles and boiled rice were collected from circle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 of Greater Hyderabad municipal corporation (GHMC) and analyzed for microbiological examination. The most prevalent pathogenic bacteria isolated were S. aureus (3.4 log 10 cfu/g) and B. cereus (3.4 log 10 cfu/g). Salmonella spp. was present in salads (3.2 log 10 cfu/g) and hand washings of the food handler (3.5 log 10 cfu/g). Salmonella contamination was found in salads served along with chicken fried rice and chicken noodles than in the food.
22594483	Methane is the most important greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, with particular influence on near-term climate change. It poses increasing risk in the future from both direct anthropogenic sources and potential rapid release from the Arctic. A range of mitigation (emissions control) technologies have been developed for anthropogenic sources that can be developed for further application, including to Arctic sources. Significant gaps in understanding remain of the mechanisms, magnitude, and likelihood of rapid methane release from the Arctic. Methane may be released by several pathways, including lakes, wetlands, and oceans, and may be either uniform over large areas or concentrated in patches. Across Arctic sources, bubbles originating in the sediment are the most important mechanism for methane to reach the atmosphere. Most known technologies operate on confined gas streams of 0.1% methane or more, and may be applicable to limited Arctic sources where methane is concentrated in pockets. However, some mitigation strategies developed for rice paddies and agricultural soils are promising for Arctic wetlands and thawing permafrost. Other mitigation strategies specific to the Arctic have been proposed but have yet to be studied. Overall, we identify four avenues of research and development that can serve the dual purposes of addressing current methane sources and potential Arctic sources: (1) methane release detection and quantification, (2) mitigation units for small and remote methane streams, (3) mitigation methods for dilute (<1000 ppm) methane streams, and (4) understanding methanotroph and methanogen ecology.
22595763	Rice is the staple food for approximate two thirds of the Chinese population. However, human exposure to parent and halogenated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) via rice consumption is still not clear for Chinese people so far. The goals of this work are to assess human exposure to PAHs and halogenated PAHs (HPAHs) via rice ingestion and the cancer risk for Chinese population. 16 PAHs and eight HPAHs were determined in rice samples collected from 18 provinces in China. In general terms, the general population in China was exposed to higher levels of PAHs via rice ingestion in comparison to that via cereals for other countries. The cancer risk values induced by exposure to PAHs and HPAHs for male and female on each age group were between the priority risk level (10(-4)) and the acceptable risk level (10(-6)). Children faced the highest cancer risk, followed by adolescents and adults.
2259619	Simple and reproducible fingerprints of complex genomes can be generated using single arbitrarily chosen primers and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). No prior sequence information is required. The method, arbitrarily primed PCR (AP-PCR), involves two cycles of low stringency amplification followed by PCR at higher stringency. We show that strains can be distinguished by comparing polymorphisms in genomic fingerprints. The generality of the method is demonstrated by application to twenty four strains from five species of Staphylococcus, eleven strains of Streptococcus pyogenes and three varieties of Oryza sativa (rice).
22605998	The present study reports the composition and variation of fatty acids, sterols, tocopherols and γ-oryzanol among selected varieties namely Basmati Super, Basmati 515, Basmati 198, Basmati 385, Basmati 2000, Basmati 370, Basmati Pak, KSK-139, KS-282 and Irri-6 of Pakistani rice (Oryza sativa L). Oil content extracted with n-hexane from different varieties of brown rice seed (unpolished rice) ranged from 1.92% to 2.72%. Total fatty acid contents among rice varieties tested varied between 18240 and 25840 mg/kg brown rice seed. The rice tested mainly contained oleic (6841-10952 mg/kg) linoleic (5453-7874 mg/kg) and palmitic acid (3613-5489 mg/kg). The amounts of total phytosterols (GC and GC-MS analysis), with main contribution from β-sitosterol (445-656 mg/kg), campesterol (116-242 mg/kg), Δ(5)-avenasterol (89-178 mg/kg) and stigmasterol (75-180 mg/kg) were established to be 739.4 to 1330.4 mg/kg rice seed. The content of α-, γ- and δ-tocopherols as analyzed by HPLC varied from 39.0-76.1, 21.6-28.1 and 6.5-16.5 mg/kg rice seed, respectively. The amounts of different γ-oryzanol components (HPLC data), identified as cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylene cycloartanyl ferulate, campesteryl ferulate and β-sitosteryl ferulate, were in the range of 65.5-103.6, 140.2-183.1, 29.8-45.5 and 8.6-10.4 mg/kg rice seed, respectively. Overall, the concentration of these bioactives was higher in the Basmati rice cultivars showing their functional food superiority. In conclusion, the tested varieties of Pakistani rice, especially the Basmati cultivars, can provide best ingredients for functional foods.
22606331	DNA microarray analysis is an effective method to detect unintended effects by detecting differentially expressed genes (DEG) in safety assessment of genetically modified (GM) crops. With the aim to reveal the distribution of DEG of GM crops under different conditions, we performed DNA microarray analysis using transgenic rice Huahui 1 (HH1) and its non-transgenic parent Minghui 63 (MH63) at different developmental stages and environmental conditions. Considerable DEG were selected in each group of HH1 under different conditions. For each group of HH1, the number of DEG was different; however, considerable common DEG were shared between different groups of HH1. These findings suggested that both DEG and common DEG were adequate for investigation of unintended effects. Furthermore, a number of significantly changed pathways were found in all groups of HH1, indicating genetic modification caused everlasting changes to plants. To our knowledge, our study for the first time provided the non-uniformly distributed pattern for DEG of GM crops at different developmental stages and environments. Our result also suggested that DEG selected in GM plants at specific developmental stage and environment could act as useful clues for further evaluation of unintended effects of GM plants.
22606829	Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith) is composed of two genetically distinct strains, the so-called corn strain and the rice strain. Whether the two strains differ in their host use is unclear, because laboratory experiments have not been able to show consistent host performance or preference differences between them, and field studies showed high rates of hybridization, as well as some degree asymmetric host use. To determine the distribution of the two strains and their association with host plants, we collected fall armyworm larvae from different crops (corn, rice, alfalfa, and sorghum) and grasses in 15 different localities over 4 yr in Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay. The strain identity was analyzed using two polymorphisms in the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I gene. We identified the corn and rice haplotypes and three types of populations were characterized based on the frequencies of the individuals that belonged to any of these haplotypes: in 44% of populations the corn haplotype predominated, in 44% of populations the rice haplotype was the most frequent, and 11% of populations showed both haplotypes at similar proportions. In total, eight populations (47%) showed the expected pattern, two populations (12%) were polymorphic within the same field, and seven populations (41%) showed the inverse pattern. Taken together, there was no consistent pattern of host association between the two sympatric genotypes and their respective host plants. This investigation supports the need for additional studies to determine which other forces keep the genotypes separate, and what is the degree of genetic differentiation between these populations.
22607031	Large numbers of sequences are now readily available for many plant species, allowing easy identification of homologous genes. However, orthologous gene identification across multiple species is made difficult by evolutionary events such as whole-genome or segmental duplications. Several developmental atlases of gene expression have been produced in the past couple of years, and it may be possible to use these transcript abundance data to refine ortholog predictions. In this study, clusters of homologous genes between seven plant species - Arabidopsis, soybean, Medicago truncatula, poplar, barley, maize and rice - were identified. Following this, a pipeline to rank homologs within gene clusters by both sequence and expression profile similarity was devised by determining equivalent tissues between species, with the best expression profile match being termed the 'expressolog'. Five electronic fluorescent pictograph (eFP) browsers were produced as part of this effort, to aid in visualization of gene expression data and to complement existing eFP browsers at the Bio-Array Resource (BAR). Within the eFP browser framework, these expression profile similarity rankings were incorporated into an Expressolog Tree Viewer to allow cross-species homolog browsing by both sequence and expression pattern similarity. Global analyses showed that orthologs with the highest sequence similarity do not necessarily exhibit the highest expression pattern similarity. Other orthologs may show different expression patterns, indicating that such genes may require re-annotation or more specific annotation. Ultimately, it is envisaged that this pipeline will aid in improvement of the functional annotation of genes and translational plant research.
22607456	Elevated constitutive expression of components of the defence arsenal is associated with quantitative resistance to the rice blast fungus, a phenomenon called preformed defence. While the role of many disease regulators in inducible defence systems has been extensively studied, little attention has been paid so far to genes that regulate preformed defence. In this study, we show by microarray analysis across rice diversity that the preformed defence phenomenon impacts on a large number of defence-related genes without apparently affecting other biological processes. Using a guilt-by-association strategy, we identified two positive regulators that promote constitutive expression of known defence markers and partial resistance to rice blast. The HSF23 gene encodes for a putative member of the heat shock transcription factor family, while CaMBP encodes for a putative Calmodulin-binding protein. Both HSF23 and CaMBP strongly affect preformed defence and also plant growth. Additionally, we identified the OB-fold gene as a negative regulator of blast resistance, which could be involved in RNA stabilization. The OB-fold mutants do not suffer from obvious developmental defects. Taken together, our results prove that our strategy of combining analysis of gene expression diversity with guilt-by-association is a powerful way to identify disease resistance regulators in rice.
22607464	Polished and cargo rice, wild rice, rice bran, corn bran, and wheat bran were subjected to a static in vitro digestion model, to monitor changes in their steryl ferulate content and composition. Free sterols, possible hydrolysis products of steryl ferulates, were also measured. Additionally, steryl ferulate bioaccessibility was calculated as the percentage of steryl ferulates liberated from the grain matrix into the digestive juice. Steryl ferulate content ranged between 6.1 and 3900 μg/g and decreased by 1-63% due to digestion. A parallel increase in free sterols of more than 70% was observed in all samples. Additionally, bioaccessibility of steryl ferulates was found to be almost negligible. These findings suggest that intestinal enzymes immediately hydrolyze steryl ferulates, which are liberated from the grain matrix, and thus they are practically unavailable for absorption in the small intestine. This further indicates that the hydrolysis products of steryl ferulates could be bioactive in the gut.
22608517	Rice and most staple cereals contain low iron (Fe) levels, most of which is lost during grain processing. Populations with monotonous diets consisting mainly of cereals are especially prone to Fe deficiency, which affects about two billion people. Supplementation or food fortification programs have not always been successful. Crop Fe fertilization is also not very effective due to Fe soil insolubility. An alternative solution is Fe biofortification by generating cultivars that efficiently mobilize, uptake and translocate Fe to the edible parts. Here, we review the strategies used for the Fe biofortification of rice, including conventional breeding and directed genetic modification, which offer the most rapid way to develop Fe-rich rice plants. While classical breeding is able to modify the contents of inhibitors of Fe absorption, transgenic approaches have focused on enhanced Fe uptake from soil, xylem and phloem loading and grain sink strength. A comprehensive table is provided in which the percentages of the recommended dietary Fe intake reached by independently developed transgenic plants are calculated. In this review we also emphasize that the discovery of new QTLs and genes related to Fe biofortification is extremely important, but interdisciplinary research is needed for future success in this area.
22608525	The plant hormone auxin is essential for root formation. After auxin perception, transmission of the auxin signal progresses through the degradation of Aux/IAA proteins. In this study, we newly isolated and characterized a rice gain-of-function mutant, Osiaa13, containing a single amino acid substitution in the core sequence required for the degradation of the OsIAA13 protein. The Osiaa13 mutant displayed typical auxin-related phenotypes: the number of lateral roots was significantly reduced and the root gravitropic response was defective. Osiaa13 mutants also exhibited altered GUS staining controlled by the DR5 promoter in lateral root initiation sites. Furthermore, expression levels of several genes that might be associated with lateral root initiation were altered in Osiaa13. Taken together, our results indicate that OsIAA13 is involved in auxin signaling and controls the expression of genes that are required for lateral root initiation in rice.
22609438	The key enzyme of plant photosynthesis, D-ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), must be activated to become catalytically competent via the carbamylation of Lys201 of the large subunit and subsequent stabilization by Mg(2+) coordination. Many biochemical studies have reported that reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) and 6-phosphogluconate (6PG) function as positive effectors to promote activation. However, the structural mechanism remains unknown. Here, we have determined the crystal structures of activated rice Rubisco in complex with NADPH, 6PG, or 2-carboxy-D-arabinitol 1,5-bisphosphate (2CABP). The structures of the NADPH and 6PG complexes adopt open-state conformations, in which loop 6 at the catalytic site and some other loops are disordered. The structure of the 2CABP complex is in a closed state, similar to the previous 2CABP-bound activated structures from other sources. The catalytic sites of the NADPH and 6PG complexes are fully activated, despite the fact that bicarbonate (NaHCO(3)) was not added into the crystallization solution. In the catalytic site, NADPH does not interact with Mg(2+) directly but interacts with Mg(2+)-coordinated water molecules, while 6PG interacts with Mg(2+) directly. These observations suggest that the two effectors promote Rubisco activation by stabilizing the complex of Mg(2+) and the carbamylated Lys201 with unique interactions and preventing its dissociation. The structure also reveals that the relaxed complex of the effectors (NADPH or 6PG), distinct from the tight-binding mode of 2CABP, would allow rapid exchange of the effectors in the catalytic sites by substrate D-ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate for catalysis in physiological conditions.
22609655	Biodiesel synthesis from rice bran fatty acids (RBFA) was carried out using cesium exchanged 12-tungstophosphoric acid (TPA) catalysts. The physico-chemical properties of the catalysts were derived from X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), temperature programmed desorption (TPD) of NH(3) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The characterization techniques revealed that the Keggin structure of TPA remained intact as Cs replaced protons. The partial exchange of Cs for protons resulted in an increase in acidity and the catalysts with one Cs(+) (Cs(1)H(2)PW(12)O(40)) showed highest acidity. Under optimized conditions about 92% conversion of RBFA was obtained. The catalyst was reused for five times and retained of its original activity. Pseudo-first order model was applied to correlate the experimental kinetic data. Modified tungstophosphoric acids are efficient solid acid catalysts for the synthesis of biodiesel from the oils containing high FFA.
22609663	This article reports experimental results of rapid or fast pyrolysis of rice straw (RS) and rice husk (RH) in a fluidised-bed reactor unit incorporated with a hot vapour filter. The objective of this research was to investigate the effects of pyrolysis temperatures and the use of glass wool hot vapour filtration on pyrolysis products. The results showed that the optimum pyrolysis temperatures for RS and RH were 405 and 452 °C, which gave maximum bio-oil yields of 54.1 and 57.1 wt.% on dry biomass basis, respectively. The use of the hot filter led to a reduction of 4-7 wt.% bio-oil yield. Nevertheless, the glass wool hot filtered bio-oils appeared to have better quality in terms of initial viscosity, solids content and ash content than the non-filtered ones.
22609664	Detailed compositional analysis of a bio-oil (BO) from pyrolysis of rice husk was carried out. The BO was extracted sequentially with n-hexane, CCl(4), CS(2), benzene and CH(2)Cl(2). In total, 167 organic species were identified with GC/MS in the extracts and classified into alkanes, alcohols, hydroxybenzenes, alkoxybenzenes, dioxolanes, aldehydes, ketones, carboxylic acids, esters, nitrogen-containing organic compounds and other species. The benzene ring-containing species (BRCCs) were attributed to the degradation of lignin while most of the rests were derived from the degradation of cellulose and hemicellulose. Along with guaiacyl and p-hydroxyphenyl units as the main components, a new type of linkage was suggested, i.e., C(ar)-CH(2)-C(ar) in 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethoxyphenol). Based on the species identified, a possible macromolecular structure of the lignin and the mechanism for its pyrolysis are proposed. The BO was also extracted with petroleum ether in ca. 17.8% of the extract yield and about 82.1% of the extracted components are BRCCs.
22610311	Fungal hydrophobins are secreted proteins that self-assemble at hydrophobic:hydrophilic interfaces. They are essential for a variety of processes in the fungal life cycle, including mediating interactions with surfaces and infection of hosts. The fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, the causative agent of rice blast, relies on the unique properties of hydrophobins to infect cultivated rice as well as over 50 different grass species. The hydrophobin MPG1 is highly expressed during rice blast pathogenesis and has been implicated during host infection. Here we report the backbone and sidechain assignments for the class I hydrophobin MPG1 from the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae.
22610504	A number of Agrobacterium-mediated rice transformation systems have been developed and widely used in numerous laboratories and research institutes. However, those systems generally employ antibiotics like kanamycin and hygromycin, or herbicide as selectable agents, and are used for the small-scale experiments. To address high-throughput production of transgenic rice plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and to eliminate public concern on antibiotic markers, we developed a comprehensive efficient protocol, covering from explant preparation to the acquisition of low copy events by real-time PCR analysis before transplant to field, for high-throughput production of transgenic plants of Japonica rice varieties Wanjing97 and Nipponbare using Escherichia coli phosphomannose isomerase gene (pmi) as a selectable marker. The transformation frequencies (TF) of Wanjing97 and Nipponbare were achieved as high as 54.8 and 47.5%, respectively, in one round of selection of 7.5 or 12.5 g/L mannose appended with 5 g/L sucrose. High-throughput transformation from inoculation to transplant of low copy events was accomplished within 55-60 days. Moreover, the Taqman assay data from a large number of transformants showed 45.2% in Wanjing97 and 31.5% in Nipponbare as a low copy rate, and the transformants are fertile and follow the Mendelian segregation ratio. This protocol facilitates us to perform genome-wide functional annotation of the open reading frames and utilization of the agronomically important genes in rice under a reduced public concern on selectable markers. We describe a comprehensive protocol for large scale production of transgenic Japonica rice plants using non-antibiotic selectable agent, at simplified, cost- and labor-saving manners.
22610536	China's small-scale pig keepers are the largest community of pork producers worldwide. About 56 % of the world's pigs originate from such systems, each producing 2-5 head per year. This study analyzes pig smallholders in Xishuangbanna, a prefecture of Yunnan Province. Categorical principal component analysis and two-step cluster analysis were used to identify three main production systems: livestock-corn-based (LB; 41 %), rubber based (RB; 39 %), and pig based (PB; 20 %) systems. RB farms earn high income from rubber and fatten cross-bred pigs, often using purchased feeds. PB farms own similar-sized rubber plantations and raise pigs, with fodder mainly being cultivated and collected in the forest. LB farms grow corn, rice, and tea while also raising pigs, fed with collected and cultivated fodder as well. About one third of pigs were marketed (LB, 20 %; RB, 42 %; PB, 25 %), and local pig meat is highly appreciated in the nearby town. High mortality, low reproductive performance, and widespread malnourishment are the systems' main constraints. Basic training in hygiene and reproduction management could significantly increase production; most effective measures would be counterbalancing seasonal malnourishment and exploration of locally available protein feeds. Through support by external expertise, farmers could more effectively trade their pigs at lucrative town markets.
22610641	After rice, wheat is considered to be the most important world food crop, and the demand for high-quality wheat flour is increasing. Although there are no GM varieties currently grown, wheat is an important target for biotechnology, and we anticipate that GM wheat will be commercially available in 10-15 years. In this chapter, we summarize the main features and challenges of wheat transformation and then describe detailed protocols for the production of transgenic wheat plants both by biolistic and Agrobacterium-mediated DNA-delivery. Although these methods are used mainly for bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), they can also be successfully applied, with slight modifications, to tetraploid durum wheat (T. turgidum L. var. durum). The appropriate size and developmental stage of explants (immature embryo-derived scutella), the conditions to produce embryogenic callus tissues, and the methods to regenerate transgenic plants under increasing selection pressure are provided in the protocol. To illustrate the application of herbicide selection system, we have chosen to describe the use of the plasmid pAHC25 for biolistic transformation, while for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation the binary vector pAL156 (incorporating both the bar gene and the uidA gene) has been chosen. Beside the step-by-step methodology for obtaining stably transformed and normal fertile plants, procedures for screening and testing transgenic wheat plants are also discussed.
22612386	Diclofop methyl (DM) is a chiral herbicide that is widely used as a racemic mixture. This study analyzed the enantioselective effects of R- and S-DM on rice at the physiological and molecular levels. DM exerts an enantioselective effect on rice growth, reactive oxygen substance (ROS) formation, and antioxidant gene expression, with R-DM acting as a more potent stressor than S-DM. An analysis of chlorophyll fluorescence demonstrated that photosynthesis process was more strongly inhibited by R-DM than by S-DM. Microarray results showed that many metabolic pathways, including starch and sucrose metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and amino acid biosynthesis and metabolism, were affected by DM in an enantioselective manner. These results suggest that R-DM is more active to plant growth than S-DM and that this activity is induced not only by repression of fatty acid synthesis but also by R-DM affecting the transcription of genes in other metabolic pathways in an enantioselective manner.
22613089	The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of physical geographic factors and climate conditions on human longevity. The centenarian rate (CR) in 2005 was computed for Japan's 47 prefectures, whose geography and climate vary greatly. Several pathways, such as excess winter mortality, land use and agricultural production, possibly linking physical and climate factors with extreme longevity, were explored. The probability of becoming a centenarian varies significantly among the Japanese prefectures. In particular, the computation of CR(70) demonstrated that the actual probability for individuals 70 years old in 1975 of becoming centenarians in 2005 was 3 times higher, on average, in Okinawa, both for males and females, than in Japan as a whole. About three quarters of the variance in CR(70) for females and half for males is explained by the physical environment and land use, even when variations in the level of socio-economic status between prefectures are controlled. Our analysis highlighted two features which might have played an important role in the longevity observed in Okinawa. First, there is virtually no winter in Okinawa. For instance, the mean winter temperature observed in 2005 was 17.2°C. Second, today, there is almost no rice production in Okinawa compared to other parts of Japan. In the past, however, production was higher in Okinawa. If we consider that long term effects of harsh winters can contribute to the mortality differential in old age and if we consider that food availability in the first part of the 20th century was mainly dependent on local production, early 20th century birth cohorts in Okinawa clearly had different experiences in terms of winter conditions and in terms of food availability compared to their counterparts in other parts of Japan. This work confirms the impact of climate conditions on human longevity, but it fails to demonstrate a strong association between longevity and mountainous regions and/or air quality.
22613869	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an essential role in gene regulation in plants. At the same time, the expression of miRNA genes is also tightly controlled. Recently, a novel mechanism called "target mimicry" was discovered, providing another layer for modulating miRNA activities. However, except for the artificial target mimics manipulated for functional studies on certain miRNA genes, only one example, IPS1 (Induced by Phosphate Starvation 1)-miR399 was experimentally confirmed in planta. To date, few analyses for comprehensive identification of natural target mimics have been performed in plants. Thus, limited evidences are available to provide detailed information for interrogating the questionable issue whether target mimicry was widespread in planta, and implicated in certain biological processes. In this study, genome-wide computational prediction of endogenous miRNA mimics was performed in Arabidopsis and rice, and dozens of target mimics were identified. In contrast to a recent report, the densities of target mimic sites were found to be much higher within the untranslated regions (UTRs) when compared to those within the coding sequences (CDSs) in both plants. Some novel sequence characteristics were observed for the miRNAs that were potentially regulated by the target mimics. GO (Gene Ontology) term enrichment analysis revealed some functional insights into the predicted mimics. After degradome sequencing data-based identification of miRNA targets, the regulatory networks constituted by target mimics, miRNAs and their downstream targets were constructed, and some intriguing subnetworks were further exploited. These results together suggest that target mimicry may be widely implicated in regulating miRNA activities in planta, and we hope this study could expand the current understanding of miRNA-involved regulatory networks.
22613886	Based on an entrained flow concept, a prototype atmospheric gasification system has been designed and developed in the laboratory for gasification of powdery biomass feedstock such as rice husks, coconut coir dust, saw dust etc. The reactor was developed by adopting L/D (height to diameter) ratio of 10, residence time of about 2s and a turn down ratio (TDR) of 1.5. The experimental investigation was carried out using coconut coir dust as biomass feedstock with a mean operating feed rate of 40 kg/h The effects of equivalence ratio in the range of 0.21-0.3, steam feed at a fixed flow rate of 12 kg/h, preheat on reactor temperature, product gas yield and tar content were investigated. The gasifier could able to attain high temperatures in the range of 976-1100 °C with gas lower heating value (LHV) and peak cold gas efficiency (CGE) of 7.86 MJ/Nm3 and 87.6% respectively.
22613899	Developing feedstock-independent biomass pretreatment would be vital to second generation biorefineries that would fully utilize diverse non-food lignocellulosic biomass resources, decrease transportation costs of low energy density feedstock, and conserve natural biodiversity. Cellulose solvent- and organic solvent-based lignocellulose fractionation (COSLIF) was applied to a variety of feedstocks, including Miscanthus, poplar, their mixture, bagasse, wheat straw, and rice straw. Although non-pretreated biomass samples exhibited a large variation in enzymatic digestibility, the COSLIF-pretreated biomass samples exhibited similar high enzymatic glucan digestibilities and fast hydrolysis rates. Glucan digestibilities of most pretreated feedstocks were ∼93% at five filter paper units per gram of glucan. The overall glucose and xylose yields for the Miscanthus:poplar mixture at a weight ratio of 1:2 were 93% and 85%, respectively. These results suggested that COSLIF could be regarded as a feedstock-independent pretreatment suitable for processing diverse feedstocks by adjusting pretreatment residence time only.
22614271	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the foundation of SSR molecular marker technology. We used sib rice varieties J518, XD1 and SD23 as experimental materials, selecting 30 pairs of SSR primers, including RM127, RM337 and RM5172, covering the rice genome, and performed single- and double-SSR primer combined analyses. We found that under the same PCR system and conditions, a single primer of the SSR primer pairs could amplify the same fragments as double primers do. The sequencing results demonstrated that some amplified fragments that we previously believed to come from double primers were actually produced by a single primer. The use of this kind of primer, such as the RM127 primer pair, for marker-assisted breeding will therefore be misleading. Additionally, using the same PCR system and conditions, some single primers that are part of SSR primer pairs can amplify many more specific fragments than double-SSR primers. For instance, in the case of the RM5172 primer pair, a single primer P1 amplified approximately three times the number of fragments as the double primer. This information can contribute to research on genetic diversity of species, understanding of genetic relationships and identification of germplasm resources. Accordingly, combined analyses of single- and double-primer amplification products not only can remove single-primer amplification fragments and false-positives from double-primer amplification products in order to improve test accuracy, but also can facilitate research on genetic diversity, exploration of phylogenetic relationships and identification of germplasm resources. We define this method as "single- and double-SSR primer combined analyses".
22614833	The finding of mRNA acting as a systemic information molecule is one of the most exciting discoveries in recent plant biology. However, evidence demonstrating the functional significance of non-cell autonomous RNA remains limited. Recent analyses of Arabidopsis and rice revealed FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) protein as a systemic florigenic signal. However, whether the FT RNA also participates in systemic floral regulation remains controversial. By using Arabidopsis cleft-grafting experiments, we showed that the RNA of Arabidopsis FT undergoes long-distance movement from the stock to the scion apex in both FT transformants and non-transformants. In addition, the sequences of FT RNA are sufficient to target a cell-autonomous RNA for long-distance movement. Therefore, FT RNA is a bona fide non-cell autonomous RNA. To examine the systemic action of FT RNA, we uncoupled the movement of FT RNA from protein by fusing FT with RED FLUORESCENT PROTEIN (RFP). When RFP-FT protein was retained in companion cells, the detection of RFP-FT RNA correlates with floral promotion in the scion. Further depletion of the translocated RFP-FT RNA by RNAi or artificial miRNA against FT delayed the floral promotion, indicating that the translocated FT RNA acts as a part of the systemic floral signaling. Our results indicate that both FT RNA and protein move long distance and act redundantly to integrate the photoperiodic signals.
22616023	Salt stress leads to attenuated growth and productivity in rice. Transcription factors like heat shock factors (HSFs) represent central regulators of stress adaptation. Heat shock factors of the classes A and B are well established as regulators of thermal and non-thermal stress responses in plants; however, the role of class C HSFs is unknown. Here we characterized the function of the OsHsfC1b (Os01g53220) transcription factor from rice. We analysed the expression of OsHsfC1b in the rice japonica cultivars Dongjin and Nipponbare exposed to salt stress as well as after mannitol, abscisic acid (ABA) and H(2)O(2) treatment. For functional characterization of OsHsfC1b, we analysed the physiological response of a T-DNA insertion line (hsfc1b) and two artificial micro-RNA (amiRNA) knock-down lines to salt, mannitol and ABA treatment. In addition, we quantified the expression of small Heat Shock Protein (sHSP) genes and those related to signalling and ion homeostasis by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction in roots exposed to salt. The subcellular localization of OsHsfC1b protein fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) was determined in Arabidopsis mesophyll cell protoplasts. Expression of OsHsfC1b was induced by salt, mannitol and ABA, but not by H(2)O(2). Impaired function of OsHsfC1b in the hsfc1b mutant and the amiRNA lines led to decreased salt and osmotic stress tolerance, increased sensitivity to ABA, and temporal misregulation of salt-responsive genes involved in signalling and ion homeostasis. Furthermore, sHSP genes showed enhanced expression in knock-down plants under salt stress. We observed retarded growth of hsfc1b and knock-down lines in comparison with control plants under non-stress conditions. Transient expression of OsHsfC1b fused to GFP in protoplasts revealed nuclear localization of the transcription factor. OsHsfC1b plays a role in ABA-mediated salt stress tolerance in rice. Furthermore, OsHsfC1b is involved in the response to osmotic stress and is required for plant growth under non-stress conditions.
22616609	Endophytic colonization is a very complex process which is not yet completely understood. Molecules exuded by the plants may act as signals which influence the ability of the microbe to colonize the host or survive in the rhizosphere. Here we used the whole genome microarray approach to investigate the response of the diazotrophic model endophyte, Azoarcus sp. strain BH72, to exudates of O. sativa cv. Nipponbare in order to identify differentially regulated genes. On exposure to exudates, an overall expression of 4.4% of the 3992 protein coding genes of Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 was altered, out of which 2.4% was upregulated and 2.0% was downregulated. Genes with modulated expression included a few whose involvement in plant-microbe interaction had already been established, whereas a large fraction comprised of genes encoding proteins with putative or unknown functions. Mutational analysis of several differentially regulated genes like those encoding a minor pilin PilX, signal transduction proteins containing GGDEF domains and a serine-threonine kinase as a putative component of the type IV secretion system (T6SS), revealed their role in host colonization. Our data suggest that strain BH72 may be primed for the endophytic lifestyle by exudates, as the expression of bacterial genes relevant for endophytic colonization of roots is induced by root exudates.
22616748	Flavivirus is a highly heterogeneous viral genus that includes important human pathogens and several viral strains with unknown zoonotic potential. Mosquito-borne flaviviruses have been isolated and characterized in Northern Italy: West Nile virus and Usutu virus were detected in mosquitoes and in different host species and recent studies provided evidence about the circulation of "insect Flavivirus" strains. In order to clarify the diffusion and the distribution of the mosquito-transmitted flaviviruses in Italy, we analyzed Culex and Ochlerotatus mosquitoes collected in 2009 and 2010 in an area divided evenly between hills and plains and where the landscape is dominated by mixed agricultural patches, rice fields, deciduous tree forests, and urban environments. Each mosquito pool was tested for the presence of Flavivirus strains and we characterized positive samples by genetic sequencing. Positive mosquito pools revealed low infection prevalence, but suggested a continuous circulation of both Usutu virus and insect Flavivirus. Interestingly, phylogenetic analyses based on NS5 gene partial sequences showed a closer relationship among new Usutu virus strains from Piedmont and the reference sequences from the Eastern Europe, with respect to Italian samples characterized so far. Moreover, NS5 gene phylogeny suggested that mosquito flaviviruses found in Italy could belong to different lineages. Our results contribute to a wider point of view on the heterogeneity of viruses infecting mosquitoes suggesting a taxonomical revision of the Mosquito-borne Flavivirus group.
22617629	Rapid and non-destructive diagnosis of plant N status is highly required in order to optimise N fertilizer management and use-efficiency. Additionally to handheld devices for measurements of chlorophyll indices (e.g., SPAD meter) parameters of canopy reflectance via remote sensing approaches are intensively investigated and the photochemical reflectance index (PRI) appears to be a reliable indicator for changes of the epoxidation state of xanthophyll cycle pigments. In order to assess the suitability of a handheld PRI as an additional tool for N diagnosis, rice plants were grown in a nutrient solution experiment with seven N-supply levels (0.18-5.71 mM) and CI (SPAD) and PRI values and chlorophyll fluorescence parameters measured 20 and 28 days after onset of treatments. N-supply had effects on both CI (SPAD) and PRI values with a more reliable differentiation between levels. Maximum quantum yield of PSII (F(v)/F(m)), actual efficiency of PSII photochemistry (Ф(PSII)) and regulated non-photochemical quenching (Ф(NPQ)) did not differ significantly between N levels. Non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and fast- relaxing NPQ (NPQ(F)) were significantly affected by N-supply. NPQ and NPQ(F), but not the slow-relaxing component (NPQ(S)), were correlated with CI (SPAD) and PRI values. This finding which has not been reported for N-supply effects so far is indirect evidence that low N-supply induced xanthophyll cycle activity and that PRI values are able to indicate this at least in plants subject to severe N deficiency.
22618763	Arsenic contamination in groundwater is becoming more and more a worldwide problem. Nearing 50 million of people are at health risk from arsenic contamination at Ganga-Meghna-Bramhaputra basin. The experimental results of the five blocks under Malda district of West Bengal, India, showed that the arsenic concentration in groundwater (0.41-1.01 mg/l) was higher than the permissible limit for drinking water (0.01 mg/l) (WHO) and FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization) permissible limit for irrigation water (0.10 mg/l). The soil arsenic level (13.12 mg/kg) crossed the global average (10.0 mg/kg), but within the maximum acceptable limit for agricultural soil (20.0 mg/kg) recommended by the European Union. The total arsenic concentration on food crops varied from 0.000 to 1.464 mg/kg of dry weight. The highest mean arsenic concentration was found in potato (0.456 mg/kg), followed by rice grain (0.429 mg/kg). The total mean arsenic content (milligrams per kg dry weight) in cereals ranged from 0.121 to 0.429 mg/kg, in pulses and oilseeds ranged from 0.076 to 0.168 mg/kg, in tuber crops ranged from 0.243 to 0.456 mg/kg, in spices ranged from 0.031 to 0.175 mg/kg, in fruits ranged from 0.021 to 0.145 mg/kg and in vegetables ranged from 0.032 to 0.411 mg/kg, respectively. Hence, arsenic accumulation in cereals, pulses, oilseed, vegetables, spices, cole crop and fruits crop might not be safe in future without any sustainable mitigation strategies to avert the potential arsenic toxicity on the human health in the contaminated areas.
22619576	The efficacy of bispyribac-sodium, fenoxaprop + ethoxysulfuron, and penoxsulam + cyhalofop was evaluated against barnyardgrass, Chinese sprangletop, junglerice, and southern crabgrass when applied at four-, six-, and eight-leaf stages. When applied at the four-leaf stage, bispyribac-sodium provided greater than 97% control of barnyardgrass, junglerice, and southern crabgrass; however, it was slightly weak (74% control) on Chinese sprangletop. Irrespective of the weed species, fenoxaprop + ethoxysulfuron provided greater than 97% control when applied at the four-leaf stage. At the same leaf stage, penoxsulam + cyhalofop controlled 89 to 100% barnyardgrass, Chinese sprangletop, and junglerice and only 54% of southern crabgrass. The efficacy of herbicides was reduced when applied at the eight-leaf stage of the weeds; however, at this stage, fenoxaprop + ethoxysulfuron was effective in controlling 99% of Chinese sprangletop. The results demonstrate the importance of early herbicide application in controlling the weeds. The study identified that at the six-leaf stage of the weeds, fenoxaprop + ethoxysulfuron can effectively control Chinese sprangletop and southern crabgrass, penoxsulam + cyhalofop can effectively control Chinese sprangletop, and bispyribac-sodium can effectively control junglerice.
22619917	Rice bran showed antioxidative, antimutagenic, carcinogenic and antibacterial activities in previous reports. The rice bran has been recently used as a natural source of health food for several diseases such as diabetes, atherosclerosis and cancer. Severe diarrheal disease due to food-borne contamination of bacteria resulted from the bacteria have become resistant to many antibiotics. Hence, early treatment of diarrhea using natural food containing antibacterial activity to prevent progression of severe symptoms will be beneficial. To investigate antimicrobial activity of rice bran extracts against bacteria causing diarrheal disease. Bacterial strains isolated from patients include Vibrio cholerae, Vibrio vulnificus, Salmonella spp, Shigella spp, Escherichia coli (ETEC, EHEC, EAEC, EPEC, EIEC) and Stahylococcus aureus. Rice bran was extracted by five different extraction techniques. The antimicrobial activity was performed by disk diffusion and broth dilution methods. The results showed that rice bran extracts using different techniques of extraction were able to inhibit the growth of test strains. Rice bran extracts exhibited the most effective antibacterial activity against V. cholerae O139 with MIC value of 0.976 mg/ml. Using ethanol and supercritical techniques, Sang-Yod rice bran showed better antibacterial activity than Jasmine rice bran. In the present study, the MIC values of rice bran extracts against all tested strains except V. cholerae O139 and S. aureus were between 7.812 to 31.25 mg/ml. The results of present study provide insighful basic knowledge which would lead to develop rice bran extracts for effective treatment of diarrheal disease causing by bacteria including resistant strains. The rice bran extracts used against bacterial infection will be an alternative remedy in order to reduce the incidence of antibiotic resistance in future.
22619918	Free radicals induce oxidative stress in various cell components, leading to certain diseases. Plant-derived antioxidants have become a profitable alternative to prevent oxidative stress in cells due to adverse effects of some synthetic antioxidants. To determine the total phenolic and flavonoid contents and to evaluate the correlation between these two compounds and their antioxidant properties in the ethanolic extracts of brown rice and rice bran from Thai rice cultivars: Sangyod red rice and Dawk Mali 105 white rice using the chemical and cell assays. Total phenolic and flavonoid contents in all of the rice ethanolic extracts were determined using the colorimetric assays, as well as their antioxidant activity was analyzed through two chemical assays: DPPH radical-scavenging and inhibition of lipid peroxidation assays, as well as through a cell-based assay: scavenging capacity against intracellular superoxide in cells using DCF. All the rice extracts displayed their antioxidant activities in a dose dependent manner through different assays, which were expressed as EC50 values. The DPPH scavenging assay revealed very high scavenging activity in both Sangyod brown rice and rice bran extracts. Positive correlations between this activity and total phenolic and flavonoid contents suggest the major free radical scavenging activity of such compounds. In contrast, the ethanolic extract of Sangyod rice bran exhibited non-significant anti-lipid peroxidation activity relative to that of Sangyod brown rice and Dawk Mali 105 rice bran. Phenolic content was correlated to some extent with anti-lipid peroxidation activity, whereas flavonoid content and such activity showed a relatively weak correlation. Importantly, the cell-based assay also detected potent scavenging activity against superoxide production in HL-60 cells pretreated with Sangyod extracts. The content of phenolics was a major contributor to this scavenging activity including that of flavonoids but to a lesser extent. These findings suggest that ethanolic extracts of brown rice and rice bran of Sangyod red rice can be promising sources of potential natural antioxidants.
22619957	Organic carbon is needed as the electron donor in the process of reduction of nitrate transformation to nitrogen gas, which is essential for biological denitrification. Based on previous research, agriculture wastes including corncob, rice hull, rice straw and sawdust were selected as potential carbon source for denitrification. Using the static organic material of carbon source leaching kinetics test and orthogonal experiments of external factors on carbon emission process, carbon release and its mechanism of a variety of carbon materials were studied. Study showed that release process of various types of carbon source materials follows the second dynamics formula, the release curve displayed a better double-reciprocal relationship. It revealed that release amount of rice straw was the highest and sawdust was the lowest. Results showed that corncob could better be used as carbon source for denitrification. Orthogonal test indicated that the increasing of solid-liquid ratio and water temperature would lead to an enhanced release capacity of carbon, however, the change of pH had no significant effect on release capacity of carbon; according to significant degree of water temperature, pH, solid-liquid ratio impacted on the carbon release, it was sorted by solid-liquid ratio > temperature > pH.
22623376	Though osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) is temporally-associated with the use of nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (N-BPs), a cause-and-effect relationship has not yet been established. We hypothesize that ONJ is a two-stage process in which: (1) risk factors initiate pathologic processes in the oral cavity that lead to a supranormal rate of hard tissue necrosis; and (2) powerful antiresorptives reduce the rate of removal of necrotic bone sufficiently to allow its net accumulation in the jaw. To test this hypothesis, we used the rice rat model of periodontitis. At age 28 days, rats (n = 15/group) were placed on a high-sucrose and casein diet to exacerbate the development of periodontitis. Animals were injected subcutaneously (SC) biweekly with vehicle or alendronate (ALN, 15 µg/kg), or IV once monthly with vehicle, a low dose (LD) of zoledronic acid (ZOL), or a high dose (HD) of ZOL and sacrificed after 6, 12, 18, and 24 weeks. Mandibles and maxillae were analyzed to determine the effects on the: (1) progression of periodontitis; (2) integrity of alveolar bone; (3) status of bone resorption and formation; (4) vascularity; and (5) osteocyte viability. We found that only HD-ZOL induced ONJ-like lesions in mandibles of rice rats after 18 and 24 weeks of treatment. These lesions were characterized by areas of exposed necrotic alveolar bone, osteolysis, a honeycomb-like appearance of the alveolar bone, presence of bacterial colonies, and periodontal tissue destruction. In addition, inhibition of bone formation, a paradoxical abolition of the antiresorptive effect of only HD-ZOL, increased osteocyte necrosis/apoptosis, and decreased blood vessel number were found after 18 and/or 24 weeks. Our study suggests that only HD-ZOL exacerbates the inflammatory response and periodontal tissue damage in rice rats, inducing bone lesions that resemble ONJ.
22623516	Strigolactones (SLs) are carotenoid-derived plant hormones that regulate shoot branching, secondary growth, root development, and responses to soil phosphate. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), SL biosynthesis requires the sequential action of two carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases, MORE AXILLARY GROWTH3 (MAX3) and MAX4, followed by a cytochrome P450, MAX1. In rice (Oryza sativa), the plastid-localized protein DWARF27 (OsD27) is also necessary for SL biosynthesis, but the equivalent gene in Arabidopsis has not been identified. Here, we use phylogenetic analysis of D27-like sequences from photosynthetic organisms to identify AtD27, the likely Arabidopsis ortholog of OsD27. Using reverse genetics, we show that AtD27 is required for the inhibition of secondary bud outgrowth and that exogenous application of the synthetic SL GR24 can rescue the increased branching phenotype of an Atd27 mutant. Furthermore, we use grafting to demonstrate that AtD27 operates on a nonmobile precursor upstream of MAX1 in the SL biosynthesis pathway. Consistent with the plastid localization of OsD27, we also show that AtD27 possesses a functional plastid transit peptide. We demonstrate that AtD27 transcripts are subject to both local feedback and auxin-dependent signals, albeit to a lesser extent than MAX3 and MAX4, suggesting that early steps in SL biosynthesis are coregulated at the transcriptional level. By identifying an additional component of the canonical SL biosynthesis pathway in Arabidopsis, we provide a new tool to investigate the regulation of shoot branching and other SL-dependent developmental processes.
22624059	Magnaporthe oryzae, the rice blast fungus, might secrete certain proteins related to plant-fungal pathogen interactions. In this study, we report the purification, characterization, and gene cloning of a novel hypersensitive response-inducing protein elicitor (MoHrip1) secreted by M. oryzae. The protein fraction was purified and identified by de novo sequencing, and the sequence matched the genomic sequence of a putative protein from M. oryzae strain 70-15 (GenBank accession No. XP_366602.1). The elicitor-encoding gene mohrip1 was isolated; it consisted of a 429 bp cDNA, which encodes a polypeptide of 142 amino acids with a molecular weight of 14.322 kDa and a pI of 4.53. The deduced protein, MoHrip1, was expressed in E. coli. And the expression protein collected from bacterium also forms necrotic lesions in tobacco. MoHrip1 could induce the early events of the defense response, including hydrogen peroxide production, callose deposition, and alkalization of the extracellular medium, in tobacco. Moreover, MoHrip1-treated rice seedlings possessed significantly enhanced systemic resistance to M. oryzae compared to the control seedlings. The real-time PCR results indicated that the expression of some pathogenesis-related genes and genes involved in signal transduction could also be induced by MoHrip1. The results demonstrate that MoHrip1 triggers defense responses in rice and could be used for controlling rice blast disease.
22624441	Alternatives to cow's milk and soy milk are often necessary for children with food allergies. Although hydrolyzed and elemental formulas are appropriate replacements, other milk products such as rice and almond milk are insufficient protein sources for children under 2 years of age. A chart review on three patients treated for protein malnutrition in association with multiple diagnosed food allergies that resulted in refractory eczema revealed adverse outcomes that resulted from elimination diets. The use of rice milk resulted in hypoalbuminemia and poor weight gain in all cases, and multiple secondary infections in one patient. These cases illustrate the need for careful nutritional guidance in the management of food allergy, as well as the importance of cautious use and interpretation of testing for food allergies in the absence of a clear clinical history of reaction.
22624565	Heterosis is widely used in genetic crop improvement; however, the genetic basis of heterosis is incompletely understood. The use of whole-genome segregating populations poses a problem for establishing the genetic basis of heterosis, in that interactions often mask the effects of individual loci. However, introgression line (IL) populations permit the partitioning of heterosis into defined genomic regions, eliminating a major part of the genome-wide epistasis. In our previous study, based on mid-parental heterosis (HMP) value with single-point analysis, 42 heterotic loci (HLs) associated with six yield-related traits were detected in wild and cultivated rice using a set of 265 ILs of Dongxiang common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.). In this study, the genetic effects of HLs were determined as the combined effects of both additive and dominant gene actions, estimated from the performance values of testcross F1s and the dominance effects estimated from the HMP values of testcross F1s. We characterized the gene action type at each HL. Thirty-eight of the 42 HLs were over-dominant, and in the absence of epistasis, four HLs were dominant. Therefore, we favour that over-dominance is a major genetic basis of 'wild-cultivar' crosses at the single functional Mendelian locus level.
22624876	The aims of the present study were to provide deletion maps for wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) chromosomes 5A and 5B and a detailed genetic map of chromosome 5A enriched with popular microsatellite markers, which could be compared with other existing maps and useful for mapping major genes and quantitative traits loci (QTL). Physical mapping of 165 gSSR and EST-SSR markers was conducted by amplifying each primer pair on Chinese Spring, aneuploid lines, and deletion lines for the homoeologous group 5 chromosomes. A recombinant inbred line (RIL) mapping population that is recombinant for only chromosome 5A was obtained by crossing the wheat cultivar Chinese Spring and the disomic substitution line Chinese Spring-5A dicoccoides and was used to develop a genetic linkage map of chromosome 5A. A total of 67 markers were found polymorphic between the parental lines and were mapped in the RIL population. Sixty-three loci and the Q gene were clustered in three linkage groups ordered at a minimum LOD score of 5, while four loci remained unlinked. The whole genetic 5A chromosome map covered 420.2 cM, distributed among three linkage groups of 189.3, 35.4, and 195.5 cM. The EST sequences located on chromosomes 5A and 5B were used for comparative analysis against Brachypodium distachyon (L.) P. Beauv. and rice (Oryza sativa L.) genomes to resolve orthologous relationships among the genomes of wheat and the two model species.
22626555	We determined the three-dimensional structure of the PHD finger of the rice Siz/PIAS-type SUMO ligase, OsSiz1, by NMR spectroscopy and investigated binding ability for a variety of methylated histone H3 tails, showing that OsSiz1-PHD primarily recognizes dimethylated Arg2 of the histone H3 and that methylations at Arg2 and Lys4 reveal synergy effect on binding to OsSiz1-PHD. The K4 cage of OsSiz1-PHD for trimethylated Lys4 of H3K4me3 was similar to that of the BPTF-PHD finger, while the R2 pocket for Arg2 was different. It is intriguing that the PHD module of Siz/PIAS plays an important role, with collaboration with the DNA binding domain SAP, in gene regulation through SUMOylation of a variety of effectors associated with the methylated arginine-riched chromatin domains.
22626850	Agricultural non-point source (NPS) pollution has been recently identified by the Chinese government as a major source of aquatic pollution. Methodologies commonly used to make basin-wide or area-wide assessments are problematic and regional distinctions have not been made relative to rainfall and runoff. Using a typical agricultural county in the Hai River basin of the North China Plan we developed methodology to estimate potential load and delivered load for crops (field crops + rice), animal production, rural living and from atmospheric N input. We use scenarios to allow for uncertainty in delivery to estimate the relative roles of different rural forms of pollution. Livestock raising is the major source of NPS pollution. Despite a 75% rural population, rural living contributes almost nothing to surface water pollution. While over-fertilization is typical, nutrient runoff from crops is low. Our results have implications for policies now under development for NPS control in China.
22627013	Single chain variable fragment antibody (scFv) is capable of binding its target antigens and is one of the most popular recombinant antibodies format for many applications. In this study, a large human synthetic phage displayed library (Tomlinson J) was employed to generate scFvs against Cry1B toxin by affinity panning. After four rounds of panning, six monoclonal phage particles capable of binding with the Cry1B were isolated, sequenced and characterized by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). Two of the identified novel anti-Cry1B scFvs, namely H9 and B12, were expressed in Escherichia coli HB2151 and purified by Ni metal ion affinity chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamine gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) indicated that the relative molecular mass of scFv was estimated at 30 kDa. The purified scFv-H9 was used to develop an indirect competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ic-ELISA) for Cry1B toxin. The linear range of detection for standards in this ic-ELISA was approximately 0.19-1.1 μg mL⁻¹ and 50% inhibition of control (IC₅₀) was 0.84 μg mL⁻¹ for Cry1B. The affinity of scfv-H9 was (1.95±0.12) × 10⁷ M⁻¹ and showed cross-reactivity with Cry1Ab toxin and Cry1Ac toxin (8.53% and 7.58%, respectively), higher cross-reactivity (12.8%) with Cry1C toxin. The average recoveries of Cry1B toxin from spiked leaf and rice samples were in the range 89.5-96.4%, and 88.5-95.6%, respectively, with a coefficient of variation (C.V) less than 6.0%. These results showed promising applications of scfv-H9 for detecting Cry1B toxin in agricultural and environmental samples.
22627369	Oral immunotherapy is potentially useful for the treatment of allergic diseases. We previously demonstrated that allergen-induced airway inflammation and immunoglobulin E (IgE) production in mice were suppressed by oral administration of high-dose transgenic (Tg) rice seeds (approximately 50 g/kg/day) expressing a T cell epitope of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus group 1 allergen (Der p 1). However, this amount of Tg rice seeds was not realistic in our daily life. In this study, allergen-induced airway inflammation and IgE production following oral immunotherapy with a realistic (lowest) dose of Tg rice seeds were investigated. Mice orally administered with Tg or non-Tg rice seeds at approximately 5 g/kg/day for 1 week were immunized with recombinant Der p 1, and then challenged with the corresponding allergen. The infiltration of inflammatory cells into the airways and the levels of allergen-specific serum IgE were examined. Low-dose oral administration of Tg rice seeds significantly inhibited the allergen-induced infiltration of eosinophils and lymphocytes into the airways, but allergen-specific IgE synthesis was not changed. Low-dose oral immunotherapy with Tg rice seeds could suppress allergen-induced airway inflammation through mechanisms other than the downregulation of IgE synthesis.
22627618	Consumption of pesticides associated foods increased in recent decades in Bangladesh. Most of the pesticides come from paddy, as rice is the main food items here and about 70 % pesticides are used only on paddy fields. Water samples of paddy fields and Kaliganga River of Manikganj district were analyzed to provide base line data on cypermethrin, chlorpyrifos and diazinon residue by using high performance liquid chromatography. Levels of Cypermethrin, chlorpyrifos and diazinon detected in the paddy field water samples were (0.605 ± 0.011 μg/L), (0.06 ± 0.001 μg/L) and (0.039 ± 0.002 μg/L), respectively. 0.11 ± 0.003 μg/L of cypermethrin and 0.012 ± 0.0006 μg/L of chlorpyrifos were also identified in the water samples of Kaligonga River. Diazinon residue was not detected in the river water samples. The detected concentrations of pesticide residues in the river water were below the accepted maximum residue limit (MRL) value of drinking water (0.1 μg/l) adopted by the FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission. Cypermethrin and chlorpyrifos were chosen for decontamination through rice bran, as it was found in river water. Two gm rice bran could easily decontaminated 95.6 % and 96.4 % of cypermethrin and chlorpyrifos. The result of this study showed that pesticide residue was detected in water samples were below the MRLs value, which can easily be decontaminated through absorption of rice bran.
22629186	This study is focused on the emission of fixed bed combustor batch operated. Real-time analyser ELPI (electrical low-pressure impactor) system was used to size-segregated particulate matter emission ranging from 40 nm to 10 μm. The results show that total number concentration were 3.4 × 10(3), 1.6 × 10(4), and 1.5 × 10(5) particles/cm(3) · kg(fuel), while total mass of particles were 12.2, 8.0, and 6.5 mg/Nm(3) · kg(fuel) for combustion of lignite, rice husk and bagasse, respectively. But it can be noticed that cofiring released more particulate matter. Meanwhile it was found that the effect of ratio of over-fired air to total air supply is more pronounced, since decrease in this ratio, the amount of particles are decreased significantly. For particle size distribution, it can be observed that submicron-sized particles dominate and the most prevailing size is in the range: 50 nm <D(p) < 100 nm, for lignite and agricultural residues. However, during cofiring of fuel mixture at 70% rice husk mass concentration, it is found that there are two major fractions of particle size; 40 nm <D(p) < 70 nm and 0.2 μm <D(p) < 0.5 μm. The analysis of particle morphology showed that the isolate shape of submicron particle produced during lignite combustion is characterised by different geometries such as round, capsule, rod, flake-like, whereas the spherical shape is obtained with combustion of rice husk.
22629259	Abscisic acid (ABA) and Gibberellic acid (GA) play key roles in regulating seed dormancy and germination. First, when examining germination of different rice cultivars, we found that their germination timing and dormancy status are rather distinct, coupled with different GA/ABA ratio. Second, we studied genomic sequences of ABA and GA dormancy- and germination-associated genes in rice and discovered single nucleotide polymorphisms and insertions/deletions (Indels) in both coding and regulatory sequences. We aligned all these variations to the genome assemblies of 9311 and PA64s and demonstrated their relevance to seed dormancy both quantitatively and qualitatively based on gene expression data. Third, we surveyed and compared differentially expressed genes in dry seeds between 9311 and PA64s to show that these differentially expressed genes may play roles in seed dormancy and germination.
22629620	The characteristics and water/oil sorption effectiveness ofkapok fibre, sugarcane bagasse and rice husks have been compared. The three biomass types were subjected to field emission scanning electron microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy and surface tension analyses for liquid-air and oil-water systems were conducted. Both kapok fibre and sugarcane bagasse exhibit excellent oil sorption capabilities for diesel, crude, new engine and used engine oils as their oil sorption capacities all exceed 10 g/g. The synthetic sorbent exhibits oil sorption capacities comparable with sugarcane bagasse, while rice husks exhibit the lowest oil sorption capacities among all the sorbents. Kapok fibre shows overwhelmingly high oil-to-water sorption (O/W) ratios ranging from 19.35 to 201.53 while sugarcane bagasse, rice husks and synthetic sorbent have significantly lower O/W ratios (0.76-2.69). This suggests that kapok fibre is a highly effective oil sorbent even in well-mixed oil-water media. An oil sorbent suitability matrix is proposed to aid stakeholders in evaluating customized oil removal usage of the natural sorbents.
22630040	This study examined the effects of applied selenium (Se) species, time of application, method of application, and soil water management regimen on the accumulation of Se in rice plants. Plants were grown to maturity in a temperature- and humidity-controlled growth chamber using three water management methods: field capacity (FC), submerged until harvest, and submerged and drained 2 weeks before harvest. Two Se species, selenate (SeO4(2-)) and selenite (SeO3(2-)), were applied at a rate equivalent to 30 g ha(-1). Four application methods were employed as follows: (i) Se applied at soil preparation, (ii) Se-enriched urea granules applied to floodwater at heading; (iii) foliar Se applied at heading; and (iv) fluid fertilizer Se applied to soil or floodwater at heading. Total Se concentrations in rice grains, husks, leaves, culms, and roots were measured, as well as Se speciation in grains from the Se-enriched urea granule treatment. Highest Se concentrations in the grain occurred with SeO4(2-) and with fertilizer applied at heading stage; SeO4(2-)-enriched urea granules applied at heading increased grain Se concentrations 5-6-fold (by 450-600 μg kg(-1)) compared to the control (no fertilizer Se applied) in all water treatments. Under paddy conditions other Se fertilization strategies were much less effective. Drainage before harvesting caused Se to accumulate in/on rice roots, possibly through adsorption onto iron plaque on roots. Rice grains contained Se mainly in the organic form as selenomethionine (SeM), which comprised >90% of the total grain Se in treatments fertilized with SeO4(2-)-enriched urea granules. The results of this study clearly show that of the fertilizer strategies tested biofortification of Se in rice grains can best be achieved in lowland rice by broadcast application of SeO4(2-)-enriched urea granules to floodwater at heading stage.
22632068	Time-resolved studies of chlorosilylene, ClSiH, generated by the 193 nm laser flash photolysis of 1-chloro-1-silacyclopent-3-ene, have been carried out to obtain rate constants for its bimolecular reaction with trimethylsilane-1-d, Me(3)SiD, in the gas phase. The reaction was studied at total pressures up to 100 Torr (with and without added SF(6)) over the temperature range of 295-407 K. The rate constants were found to be pressure independent and gave the following Arrhenius equation: log[(k/(cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1))] = (-13.22 ± 0.15) + [(13.20 ± 1.00) kJ mol(-1)]/(RT ln 10). When compared with previously published kinetic data for the reaction of ClSiH with Me(3)SiH, kinetic isotope effects, k(D)/k(H), in the range from 7.4 (297 K) to 6.4 (407 K) were obtained. These far exceed values of 0.4-0.5 estimated for a single-step insertion process. Quantum chemical calculations (G3MP2B3 level) confirm not only the involvement of an intermediate complex, but also the existence of a low-energy internal isomerization pathway which can scramble the D and H atom labels. By means of Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus modeling and a necessary (but small) refinement of the energy surface, we have shown that this mechanism can reproduce closely the experimental isotope effects. These findings provide the first experimental evidence for the isomerization pathway and thereby offer the most concrete evidence to date for the existence of intermediate complexes in the insertion reactions of silylenes.
22632631	Young, old, pregnant and immuno-compromised persons are of great concern for risk assessors as they represent the sub-populations most at risk. The present paper focuses on risk assessment linked to furan exposure in children. Only the Belgian population was considered because individual contamination and consumption data that are required for accurate risk assessment were available for Belgian children only. Two risk assessment approaches, the so-called deterministic and probabilistic, were applied and the results were compared for the estimation of daily intake. A significant difference between the average Estimated Daily Intake (EDI) was underlined between the deterministic (419 ng kg⁻¹ body weight (bw) day⁻¹) and the probabilistic (583 ng kg⁻¹ bw day⁻¹) approaches, which results from the mathematical treatment of the null consumption and contamination data. The risk was characterised by two ways: (1) the classical approach by comparison of the EDI to a reference dose (RfD(chronic-oral)) and (2) the most recent approach, namely the Margin of Exposure (MoE) approach. Both reached similar conclusions: the risk level is not of a major concern, but is neither negligible. In the first approach, only 2.7 or 6.6% (respectively in the deterministic and in the probabilistic way) of the studied population presented an EDI above the RfD(chronic-oral). In the second approach, the percentage of children displaying a MoE above 10,000 and below 100 is 3-0% and 20-0.01% in the deterministic and probabilistic modes, respectively. In addition, children were compared to adults and significant differences between the contamination patterns were highlighted. While major contamination was linked to coffee consumption in adults (55%), no item predominantly contributed to the contamination in children. The most important were soups (19%), dairy products (17%), pasta and rice (11%), fruit and potatoes (9% each).
22633925	A study was conducted to investigate activities of nitrate reductase (NR) and glutamine synthetase (GS) in plants during cyanide metabolism. Young rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L. cv. XZX 45) were grown in the nutrient solutions containing KNO(3) or NH(4)Cl and treated with free cyanide (KCN). Cyanide in solutions and in plant materials was analyzed to estimate the phyto-assimilation potential. Activities of NR and GS in different parts of rice seedlings were assayed in vivo. Seedlings grown on NH(4)(+) showed significantly higher relative growth rate than those on NO(3)(-) (p<0.05) in the presence of exogenous cyanide. The metabolic rates of cyanide by seedlings were all positively correlated to the concentrations supplied. A negligible difference was observed between the two treatments with nitrate and ammonium (p>0.05). Enzymatic assays showed that cyanide (≥0.97mg CN L(-1)) impaired NR activity significantly in both roots and shoots (p<0.05). The effect of cyanide on GS activity in roots was more evident at 1.93mg CN L(-1), suggesting that NR activity was more susceptible to change from cyanide application than GS activity. The results observed here suggest that the exogenous cyanide, which to a certain level has a beneficial role in plant nutrition.
22634163	Chitin synthase (CHS) is an enzyme that is required for chitin formation in insect cuticles and other tissues. In this study, CHS genes from two destructive rice insect pests, the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens and the small brown planthopper Laodelphax striatellus, were cloned. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these genes belonged to class CHS1 of the CHS gene family. Most insects possess two CHS genes (CHS1 and CHS2); however, genome and transcriptome searches showed that N. lugens possibly possess only CHS1 in both databases. Two transcript variants (CHS1a and CHS1b) resulting from exclusively alternative splicing (exon 19a or 19b in N. lugens) were identified for each of the two rice planthopper CHS1s. Gene structure comparison using the genomes that are currently sequenced showed that the CHS1 genes in all insects except Acyrthosiphon pisum have two transcript variants. Transcription of NlCHS1a reached its highest level just after molting, whereas NlCHS1b reached its highest expression level 1-2 days before molting. Injection of the N. lugens nymphs with double-strand RNA (dsRNA) of CHS1, CHS1a and CHS1b reduced the corresponding variant transcript levels and exhibited subsequent phenotypes. Silencing of CHS1 and CHS1a resulted in elongated distal wing pads and the "wasp-waisted" or crimpled cuticle phenotypes and eventually died, whereas the phenotypes caused by injection of NlCHS1b dsRNA seem not so obvious although slightly increased mortality was observed. Our results suggest that N. lugens likely lacks CHS2 and CHS1 may be efficient target gene for RNAi-based N. lugens control.
22634196	The present study investigated the prevalence of overweight/obesity and its relationship with behavioral and food choice characteristics among consumers at a restaurant serving buffet-by-weight in the city of Florianopolis, southern Brazil, during lunch time. An analytical cross-sectional survey of 675 consumers aged 16-81 years was conducted. The measures included anthropometric, socio-demographic, and behavioral characteristics, as well as portion size and a photographic record of the plate chosen by the consumer. The results indicated a prevalence of overweight/obesity in the sample of 33.8%. Overall, after an adjustment for other variables (sex, age, schooling, marital status, and food choice variables), overweight/obesity was positively associated with not choosing rice and beans (PR=1.11) and larger portion sizes (PR=1.08 for a portion size of 347-462 g and PR=1.16 for a portion size of 463 g or more). Moreover, choosing 1-2 colors of salads showed a positive association when compared with choosing 3 or more colors of salads (PR=1.06). Efforts in helping consumers make healthier food choices when eating out and thereby possibly reduce weight gain should address those aspects along with socio-demographic factors.
2263444	The first intron of castor bean catalase gene, cat-1 was placed in the N-terminal region of the coding sequence of the beta-glucuronidase gene (gusA) and the intron-containing gusA was used with the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Using this plasmid, pIG221, the effect of the intron on expression of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity was examined in transgenic rice calli and plants (a monocotyledon), and transgenic tobacco plants (a dicotyledon). The intron-containing plasmid increased the level of GUS enzyme activity 10 to 40-fold and 80 to 90-fold compared with the intronless plasmid, pBI221, in transgenic rice protoplasts and transgenic rice tissues, respectively. In contrast, the presence of the intron hardly influenced the expression of the GUS activity in transgenic tobacco plants. Northern blot analysis showed that the catalase intron was efficiently spliced in rice cells while transgenic tobacco plants contained both spliced and unspliced gusA transcripts in equal amounts. Furthermore, the level of the mature gusA transcript in transformed rice calli was greatly increased in the presence of the intron. The catalase intron was removed at the same splice junctions in transgenic rice and tobacco plants. These findings indicate that the stimulating effect of the intron on GUS expression is correlated with an efficient splicing of pre-mRNA and an increased level of mature mRNA.
2263449	Our goal is to identify cis-acting elements in the regulatory region of the major seed storage protein gene in rice. A glutelin gene (pGL5-1) has been cloned by screening a rice genomic DNA library with synthetic oligonucleotides and with an amplified DNA fragment. A transient expression assay using immature rice seeds shows that its 5' flanking sequence can direct the synthesis of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) when fused upstream of the GUS coding region. Gel-retardation assays were performed to study protein-DNA interactions between putative regulatory sequences of pGL5-1 and nuclear proteins from immature rice seeds. We demonstrate that at least six protein-DNA complexes are formed between the 5' flanking sequence of pGL5-1 (-677 to -45) and nuclear protein factors. By subsequent DNase I-footprinting analyses we defined several protein-binding regions. Two of the protein-binding sequences contain the TGAGTCA motif, which is also present in the -300 element found in the 5' flanking sequences of several storage protein genes of other crop plants, and to which the transcription factors jun and GCN4 bind.
22634555	Using livestock wastewater for rice production in paddy fields can remove nitrogen and supplement the use of chemical fertilizers. However, paddy fields have complicated water dynamics owing to varying characteristics and would influence nitrogen removal through nitrification followed by denitrification. Quantification of nitrification and denitrification is of great importance in assessing the influence of water dynamics on nitrogen removal in paddy fields. In this study, nitrification and nitrate reduction rates with different water dynamics after liquid cattle waste application were evaluated, and the in situ denitrification rate was determined directly using the (15)N isotopic technique in a laboratory experiment. A significant linear regression correlation between nitrification and the nitrate reduction rate was observed and showed different regression coefficients under different water dynamics. The regression coefficient in the continuously flooded paddy soil was higher than in the drained-reflooded paddy soil, suggesting that nitrate would be consumed faster in the flooded paddy soil. However, nitrification was limited and the maximum rate was only 13.3 μg Ng(-1)day(-1) in the flooded paddy soil with rice plants, which limited the supply of nitrate. In contrast, the drained-reflooded paddy soil had an enhanced nitrification rate up to 56.8 μg Ng(-1)day(-1), which was four times higher than the flooded paddy soil and further stimulated nitrate reduction rates. Correspondingly, the in situ denitrification rates determined directly in the drained-reflooded paddy soil ranged from 5 to 1035 mg Nm(-2)day(-1), which was higher than the continuously flooded paddy soil (from 5 to 318 mg Nm(-2)day(-1)) during the vegetation period. The nitrogen removal through denitrification accounted for 38.9% and 9.9% of applied nitrogen in the drained-reflooded paddy soil and continuously flooded paddy soil, respectively.
2263460	Rice alpha-amylases are encoded by a multigene family that has previously been classified into 5 hybridization groups. DNA sequence and Southern blot analysis identified three genes (RAmy1A, RAmy1B and RAmy1C) in Group 1 with DNA sequence identity of at least 90%. Hybridization Group 2 is represented by only one gene, RAmy3D, which is identical to a previously characterized cDNA, pOS137. RAmy3D is physically linked to the sole representative of Group 5, RAmy3E. The identity between these two genes is 81.4% in the coding region but less than 50% in the 5' and 3' flanking regions. Northern blot analysis and RNA-PCR were used to detect the expression of alpha-amylase genes in various tissues. Alpha-amylase mRNA was abundant in germinating seeds and callus. Some genes were also expressed at much lower levels in roots, young leaves and immature seeds. RAmy1A and RAmy3E were expressed in all tissues while RAmy3D was expressed in all tissues except the immature seeds. RAmy1B was weakly expressed only in callus. RAmy1A transcript was most abundant in the germinating seeds, while RAmy3D and RAmy3E transcripts were most abundant in callus and immature seeds, respectively.
226356	Health examinations by a revised method aimed at detecting renal tubular dysfunctions more effectively were conducted on the general population aged 50 years and over in cadmium-polluted areas (1826 persons) and control areas (1611 persons) in four prefectures in Japan in 1976. Although detailed analysis of the data is not yet completed, some of the results obtained are described here. The prevalence of glucosuria and low molecular weight proteinuria, frequency of decreased % TRP, and cadmium concentrations in urine are higher in the cadmium-polluted areas than in the controls. Clinically diagnosed cases with tubular dysfunctions seem to follow the same trend as above, though these cases are very few in number and they are limited to the advanced age group. When cadmium concentration in rice is taken as an index, a dose-response relationship is not necessarity explicit in the observations by prefecture. However, suggestive data are obtained in the observation by district in one cadmium-polluted area.
22639036	A survey was carried out in smallholder farming systems in the districts of Borrikun, Khamkeuth, and Pakkading, in central Lao People's Democratic Republic, to assess the feeding regime and health status of local Lao pigs. In total, 216 farmers, 72 in each district, were interviewed using a questionnaire. Feed samples were collected for nutrient analysis and pen soil samples for mineral content determination. Farmers kept sows of native breeds such as Moo Lath, Moo Chid, and Moo Hmong. The number of sows per household was low (1.1 ± 0.1, 1.1 ± 0.1, and 1.2 ± 0.1 in Borrikun, Khamkeuth, and Pakkading, respectively) and pigs were mainly fed with rice bran and fresh cassava roots. Daily protein and mineral (Calcium, phosphorus, potassium, and sodium) allowances were lower than requirements. In all districts, the number of piglets at birth was around seven and pre-weaning piglet mortality was around 20 %. The most common causes of piglet death, before weaning, were diarrhea, runts, and squashed piglets. Most piglets were weaned after 4 months of age, but in the Borrikun and Pakkading districts, 11-16 % of households were weaned at <4 months. In all districts, pig management was mainly women's responsibility (around 90 %) and most farmers spent less than 1 h per day on pig management. A feasible and cheap way to increase nutrient supply to local pigs in central Lao People's Democratic Republic would be to include more fresh plant material (e.g., thick head, taro) and salt in the diet. Information and education on improving pig management should be targeted towards women.
22639581	There is controversy as to whether gene expression is silenced in the functional centromere. The complete genomic sequences of the centromeric regions in higher eukaryotes have not been fully elucidated, because the presence of highly repetitive sequences complicates many aspects of genomic sequencing. We performed resequencing, assembly, and sequence finishing of two P1-derived artificial chromosome clones in the centromeric region of rice (Oryza sativa L.) chromosome 5 (Cen5). The pericentromeric region, where meiotic recombination is silenced, is located at the center of chromosome 5 and is 2.14 Mb long; a total of six restriction-fragment-length polymorphism markers (R448, C1388, S20487S, E3103S, C53260S, and R2059) genetically mapped at 54.6 cM were located in this region. In the pericentromeric region, 28 genes were annotated on the short arm and 45 genes on the long arm. To quantify all transcripts in this region, we performed massive parallel sequencing of mRNA. Transcriptional density (total length of transcribed region/length of the genomic region) and expression level (number of uniquely mapped reads/length of transcribed region) were calculated on the basis of the mapped reads on the rice genome. Transcriptional density and expression level were significantly lower in Cen5 than in the average of the other chromosomal regions. Moreover, transcriptional density in Cen5 was significantly lower on the short arm than on the long arm; the distribution of transcriptional density was asymmetric. The genomic sequence of Cen5 has been integrated into the most updated reference rice genome sequence constructed by the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project.
22639584	Plant cell walls are complex composites largely consisting of carbohydrate-based polymers, and are generally divided into primary and secondary walls based on content and characteristics. Cellulose microfibrils constitute a major component of both primary and secondary cell walls and are synthesized at the plasma membrane by cellulose synthase (CESA) complexes. Several studies in Arabidopsis have demonstrated the power of co-expression analyses to identify new genes associated with secondary wall cellulose biosynthesis. However, across-species comparative co-expression analyses remain largely unexplored. Here, we compared co-expressed gene vicinity networks of primary and secondary wall CESAsin Arabidopsis, barley, rice, poplar, soybean, Medicago, and wheat, and identified gene families that are consistently co-regulated with cellulose biosynthesis. In addition to the expected polysaccharide acting enzymes, we also found many gene families associated with cytoskeleton, signaling, transcriptional regulation, oxidation, and protein degradation. Based on these analyses, we selected and biochemically analyzed T-DNA insertion lines corresponding to approximately twenty genes from gene families that re-occur in the co-expressed gene vicinity networks of secondary wall CESAs across the seven species. We developed a statistical pipeline using principal component analysis and optimal clustering based on silhouette width to analyze sugar profiles. One of the mutants, corresponding to a pinoresinol reductase gene, displayed disturbed xylem morphology and held lower levels of lignin molecules. We propose that this type of large-scale co-expression approach, coupled with statistical analysis of the cell wall contents, will be useful to facilitate rapid knowledge transfer across plant species.
22639601	Although plant metabolomics is largely carried out on Arabidopsis it is essentially genome-independent, and thus potentially applicable to a wide range of species. However, transfer between species, or even between different tissues of the same species, is not facile. This is because the reliability of protocols for harvesting, handling and analysis depends on the biological features and chemical composition of the plant tissue. In parallel with the diversification of model species it is important to establish good handling and analytic practice, in order to augment computational comparisons between tissues and species. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based metabolomics is one of the powerful approaches for metabolite profiling. By using a combination of different extraction methods, separation columns, and ion detection, a very wide range of metabolites can be analyzed. However, its application requires careful attention to exclude potential pitfalls, including artifactual changes in metabolite levels during sample preparation under variations of light or temperature and analytic errors due to ion suppression. Here we provide case studies with two different LC-MS-based metabolomics platforms and four species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Solanum lycopersicum, and Oryza sativa) that illustrate how such dangers can be detected and circumvented.
22639608	Despite the attention internal phosphorus utilization efficiency (PUE) of crops has received in the literature, little progress in breeding crop cultivars with high PUE has been made. Surprisingly few studies have specifically investigated PUE; instead, genotypic variation for PUE has been investigated in studies that concurrently assess phosphorus acquisition efficiency (PAE). We hypothesized that genotypic differences in PAE confound PUE rankings because genotypes with higher PAE suffer a lower degree of P stress, resulting in lower PUE. The hypothesis was tested by comparing soil-based screening to a modified technique whereby rice genotypes were grown in individual containers with a single dose of solution P, to eliminate differences in P uptake among genotypes. Genotypic differences in PUE were apparent in root and shoot tissue using the modified nutrient solution technique, but PUE rankings showed no correlation with those from traditional soil-based screening. We conclude that PUE in soil-based screening systems is unavoidably linked with genotypic PAE, resulting in PUE rankings confounded by differences in P uptake. Only screening techniques assuring equal P uptake are suitable for the exploitation of genotypic variation for PUE.
22639612	In order to maximize reproductive success, plants have evolved different strategies to control the critical developmental shift marked by the transition to flowering. As plants have adapted to diverse environments across the globe, these strategies have evolved to recognize and respond to local seasonal cues through the induction of specific downstream genetic pathways, thereby ensuring that the floral transition occurs in favorable conditions. Determining the genetic factors involved in controlling the floral transition in many species is key to understanding how this trait has evolved. Striking genetic discoveries in Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) and Oryza sativa (rice) revealed that similar genes in both species control flowering in response to photoperiod, suggesting that this genetic module could be conserved between distantly related angiosperms. However, as we have gained a better understanding of the complex evolution of these genes and their functions in other species, another possibility must be considered: that the genetic module controlling flowering in response to photoperiod is the result of convergence rather than conservation. In this review, we show that while data clearly support a central role of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) homologs in floral promotion across a diverse group of angiosperms, there is little evidence for a conserved role of CONSTANS (CO) homologs in the regulation of these loci. In addition, although there is an element of conserved function for FT homologs, even this component has surprising complexity in its regulation and evolution.
22639620	14-3-3 Dimers are well known to interact with diverse target proteins throughout eukaryotes. Most notably, association of 14-3-3s commonly requires phosphorylation of a serine or threonine residue within a specific sequence motif of the client protein. Studies with a focus on individual target proteins have unequivocally demonstrated 14-3-3s to be the crucial factors modifying the client's activity state upon phosphorylation and, thus, finishing the job initiated by a kinase. In this respect, a recent in-depth analysis of the rice transcription factor FLOWERING LOCUS D1 (OsFD1) revealed 14-3-3s to be essential players in floral induction. Such fascinating discoveries, however, can often be ascribed to the random identification of 14-3-3 as an interaction partner of the favorite protein. In contrast, our understanding of 14-3-3 function in higher organisms is frustratingly limited, mainly due to an overwhelming spectrum of putative targets in combination with the existence of a multigene 14-3-3 family. In this review we will discuss our current understanding of the function of plant 14-3-3 proteins, taking into account recent surveys of the Arabidopsis 14-3-3 interactome.
22639654	Diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) is a pivotal enzyme that phosphorylates diacylglycerol (DAG) to form phosphatidic acid (PA). The production of PA from phospholipase D (PLD) and the coupled phospholipase C/DGK route is an important signaling process in animal and plant cells. In this study, we report a genomic analysis of eight putative rice DGKs encoded by a gene family (OsDGKs) grouped into three clusters. To further investigate the functions of the OsDGKs, a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-induced RNA silencing method was established. Introduction of in vitro-synthesized dsRNAs corresponding to a unique or conserved region of OsDGKs into rice protoplasts abolished or diminished the expression of individual or multiple OsDGK genes. Suppressing the expression of OsDGKs resulted in a distinct depletion of the transcripts of the defense gene OsNPR1 and the salt-responsive gene OsCIPK15. Our primary results suggest that OsDGKs are involved in the signaling of stress responses.
22639655	Ammonium and urea are important nitrogen sources for autotrophic organisms. Plant genomes encode several families of specific transporters for these molecules, plus other uptake mechanisms such as aquaporins and ABC transporters. Selaginella and Physcomitrella are representatives of lycophytes and bryophytes, respectively, and the recent completion of their genome sequences provided us with an opportunity for comparative genome studies, with special emphasis on the adaptive processes that accompanied the conquest of dry land and the evolution of a vascular system. Our phylogenetic analysis revealed that the number of genes encoding urea transporters underwent a progressive reduction during evolution, eventually down to a single copy in vascular plants. Conversely, no clear evolutionary pattern was found for ammonium transporters, and their number and distribution in families varies between species. In particular Selaginella, similar to rice, favors the AMT2/MEP family of ammonium transporters over the plant-specific AMT1 type. In comparison, Physcomitrella presents several members belonging to both families.
22639657	Our recently developed rice proteogenomics database (OryzaPG-DB) is the first sustainable resource for rice shotgun-based proteogenomics, providing information on peptides identified in rice protein digested peptides measured by means of liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and mapping of the peptides to their genomic origins and the genomic novelty of each peptide. The sequences of the peptides, proteins, cDNAs and genes, and the gene annotations are available for download in FASTA and GFF3 formats, respectively. Further, an annotated visualization of the gene models, corresponding peptides, and genomic novelty is available for each gene, and MS/MS spectra are available for each peptide. In this article, we discuss the utilization of OryzaPG-DB and report on its development, recent content expansions, and newly added features in the current version (OryzaPG-DB v1.1).
22639662	Secondary cell wall synthesis occurs in specialized cell types following completion of cell enlargement. By virtue of mechanical strength provided by a wall thickened with cellulose, hemicelluloses, and lignin, these cells can function as water-conducting vessels and provide structural support. Several transcription factor families regulate genes encoding wall synthesis enzymes. Certain NAC and MYB proteins directly bind to the SNBE and AC elements upstream of structural genes and other transcription factors. The most detailed model of this regulatory network is established predominantly for a eudicot, Arabidopsis thaliana. In grasses, both the patterning and the composition of secondary cell walls are distinct from that of eudicots. These differences suggest transcriptional regulation is similarly distinct. Putative rice and maize orthologs of several eudicot cell wall regulators genetically complement mutants of A. thaliana or result in wall defects when constitutively overexpressed; nevertheless, aside from a maize, ZmMYB31, and a switchgrass protein, PvMYB4, function has not been tested in a grass. Similar to the seminal work conducted in A. thaliana, gene expression profiling in maize, rice, and other grasses implicates additional genes as regulators. Characterization of these genes will continue to elucidate the relationship between the transcription regulatory networks of eudicots and grasses.
22640001	The effect of melatonin on root growth after germination was examined in transgenic rice seedlings expressing sheep serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT). Enhanced melatonin levels were found in T(3) homozygous seedlings because of the ectopic overexpression of sheep NAT, which is believed to be the rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin biosynthesis in animals. Compared with wild-type rice seeds, the transgenic rice seeds showed enhanced seminal root growth and an analogous number of adventitious roots 4 and 10 days after seeding on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium. The enhanced initial seminal root growth in the transgenic seedlings matched their increased root biomass well. We also found that treatment with 0.5 and 1 μM melatonin promoted seminal root growth of the wild type under continuous light. These results indicate that melatonin plays an important role in regulating both seminal root length and root growth after germination in monocotyledonous rice plants. This is the first report on the effects of melatonin on root growth in gain-of-function mutant plants that produce high levels of melatonin.
22640941	Diet and its various components are consistently identified as among the most important 'risk factors' for cancer worldwide, yet great uncertainty remains regarding the relative contribution of nutritive (e.g., vitamins, calories) vs. non-nutritive (e.g., phytochemicals, fiber, contaminants) factors in both cancer induction and cancer prevention. Among the most potent known human dietary carcinogens is the mycotoxin, aflatoxin B(1) (AFB). AFB and related aflatoxins are produced as secondary metabolites by the molds Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus that commonly infect poorly stored foods including peanuts, pistachios, corn, and rice. AFB is a potent hepatocarcinogenic agent in numerous animal species, and has been implicated in the etiology of human hepatocellular carcinoma. Recent research has shown that many diet-derived factors have great potential to influence AFB biotransformation, and some efficiently protect from AFB-induced genotoxicity. One key mode of action for reducing AFB-induced carcinogenesis in experimental animals was shown to be the induction of detoxification enzymes such as certain glutathione-S-transferases that are regulated through the Keap1-Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway. Although initial studies utilized the dithiolthione drug, oltipraz, as a prototypical inducer of antioxidant response, dietary components such as suforaphane (SFN) are also effective inducers of this pathway in rodent models. However, human GSTs in general do not appear to be extensively induced by SFN, and GSTM1 - the only human GST with measurable catalytic activity toward aflatoxin B(1)-8,9-epoxide (AFBO; the genotoxic metabolite of AFB), does not appear to be induced by SFN, at least in human hepatocytes, even though its expression in human liver cells does appear to offer considerable protection against AFB-DNA damage. Although induction of detoxification pathways has served as the primary mechanistic focus of chemoprevention studies, protective effects of chemoprotective dietary components may also arise through a decrease in the rate of activation of AFB to AFBO. Dietary consumption of apiaceous vegetables inhibits CYP1A2 activity in humans, and it has been demonstrated that some compounds in those vegetables act as potent inhibitors of human CYP1A2 and cause reduced hCYP1A2-mediated mutagenicity of AFB. Other dietary compounds of different origin (e.g., constituents of brassica vegetables and hops) have been shown to modify expression of human hepatic enzymes involved in the oxidation of AFB. SFN has been shown to protect animals from AFB-induced tumors, to reduce AFB biomarkers in humans in vivo and to reduce efficiently AFB adduct formation in human hepatocytes, although it appears that this protective effect is the result of repression of human hepatic CYP3A4 expression, rather than induction of protective GSTs, at least in human hepatocytes. If this mechanism were to occur in vivo in humans, it would raise safety concerns for the use of SFN as a chemoprotective agent as it may have important implications for drug-drug interactions in humans. A dietary chemoprevention pathway that is independent of AFB biotransformation is represented by the potential for dietary components, such as chlorophyllin, to tightly bind to and reduce the bioavailability of aflatoxins. Chlorophyllin has been shown to significantly reduce genotoxic AFB biomarkers in humans, and it therefore holds promise as a practical means of reducing the incidence of AFB-induced liver cancer. Recent reports have demonstrated that DNA repair mechanisms are inducible in mammalian systems and some diet-derived compounds elevated significantly the gene expression of enzymes potentially involved in nucleotide excision repair of AFB-DNA adducts. However, these are initial observations and more research is needed to determine if dietary modulation of DNA repair is a safe and effective approach to chemoprevention of AFB-induced liver cancer.
22641204	A new study shows that three independent mutations in the Sh1 gene, which encodes a YABBY transcription factor, gave rise to the non-shattering seed phenotype in domesticated sorghum. This same gene may have also had a role in the domestication of other cereals, including maize and rice.
22642073	Changes in the structure and functioning of the body occur with age. Also nutrition is continually modified. Eating habits may affect favorably or unfavorably on the process of aging and the functioning of various tissues, organs and the whole body. The purpose of the study was to evaluate dietary habits and food preferences of patients in different age groups. In the studied groups also body mass index (BMI) and body fat content were analyzed. 237 people (133 women and 104 men, age 18-79 years) were examined. The participants completed questionnaires of the frequency of food consumption and food preferences. The height, weight, body mass index (BMI), the percentage of body fat (BIA) were also measured. For statistical analysis the assessment of correlation Spearman's rank order and nonparametric ANOVA rank Kruskal-Wallis were used. With age, the frequency of milk (p < 0,05) and cheese (p < 0,05) consumption decreased whereas consumption of cottage cheese increased (p < 0,05). Increased consumption of offal (p < 0,05), salt (p < 0,05) and coffee (p< 0, 05) was also noted. With age, the respondents preferred animal fats (p < 0.05) and vegetable fats (p < 0.05). The frequency of butter consumption decreased (p < 0.05) and consumption of vegetable fats increased (p < 0,05). The consumption of brown rice (p < 0,05), whole wheat pasta (p < 0,05) and cereals (p < 0,05) was reduced whereas the consumption of groats (p < 0,05) potatos (p < 0,05) and fruits (p < 0,05) increased. The decreased desire (p < 0,05) and frequency of nuts / almonds consumption (p < 0,05) were noted. With age, the BMI and percentage of body fat were increasing (p < 0,05, R = 0,39, p < 0,05, R = 0,31, respectively). Taste preferences and dietary habits vary depending on age and may be one of the elements affecting the increase in BMI, body fat content, bone mass loss and increased risk of metabolic disorders. The observed changes in dietary habits can contribute to the development of dyslipidemia, glucose dysmetabolism and arterial hypertension, especially in the presence of overweight and obesity.
22642074	Obesity is a serious social problem, one of the most important health issues of the modern world, especially in industrialized countries. Due to the prevalence obesity is a social disease, chronic and also a risk factor for many diseases such as hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, gall stones or cancers. The aim of the study was to examine and evaluation whether the systematic one-year modifications of dietary habits affect the changes in body weight and some metabolic parameters in obese patients. 30 women and 30 men who declared intentions to decrease body weight were examined. The mean age of women was 48 +/- 12.5 years (range 31-72 years), men 51 +/- 13.2 years (range 23-70 years). The questionnaire survey concerning the subject matter was designed in the Department of Dietetics and Clinical Nutrition, Medical University of Bialystok. At the initial and final visit the frequency of some products consumption were assessed and concentrations of some biochemical parameters in the peripheral blood were measured. Women after one-year dietotherapy significantly reduced the incidence of eating: pasta, fruit and vegetable juices, potatoes, ripening cheese, sugar, meat, bacon and lard, butter and cream, and increased incidence of eating dark bread, groats, rice, vegetables and fruit, cottage cheese, fish and vegetable oils. Men significantly reduced the incidence of eating: pasta, potatoes, ripening cheese, sweet beverages, bacon and lard, margarine, and increased the incidence of eating dark bread, groats, rice, vegetables, cottage cheese and fish. After one year the average body weight decrease was 2.8 +/- 7.1 kg in women and 1.4 +/- 3.2 kg in men. The average reduction in waist circumference was 3.6 +/- 6.5 cm in women and 3.6 +/- 4,8 cm in men. HDL cholesterol levels increased significantly in women and not significantly in men. LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels decreased significantly in both groups. In women systolic blood pressure decreased significantly by on average 9.7 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure by 9.2 mmHg, and in men by 10.9 mmHg and 8.2 mmHg respectively. Systematic nutritional education (every 3 months) may be the hope for effective body weight reduction and subsequent weight loss maintenance.
22642895	During rice milling, the bran and germ are successively removed from the caryopsis (kernel). Because bran and germ contain large quantities of lipid, the amount of lipid remaining on the kernel surface may be used as a method for the assessment of milling quality. Bulk samples of rice pureline varieties and an experimental hybrid were milled for 0, 10, 20, 30, and 40 s. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed that brown rice kernels had large contours of linear protuberances and depressions running lengthwise along the kernel surface. The protuberances were abraded successively during milling, but varying amounts of material remained in the depressions. Light microscopy combined with the lipid-specific probes Nile Blue A or Sudan Black B demonstrated that the material in the depressions observed with SEM was lipid. Sections of whole, milled rice kernels, prepared using a modified sectioning technique and stained with Nile Blue A, showed that portions of the embryo remain after milling and that lipid is located on or near the surface of the kernel. Differences in quantity and distribution of residual lipid as milling duration increased were documented photographically to indicate the extent to which the bran and embryo components were removed during milling. This paper provides proof of concept that residual lipid is a robust measure of the degree of milling.
22642989	Cytokinins are involved in key developmental processes in rice (Oryza sativa), including the regulation of cell proliferation and grain yield. However, the in vivo action of histidine kinases (OsHks), putative cytokinin receptors, in rice cytokinin signaling remains elusive. This study examined the function and characteristics of OsHk3, 4 and 6 in rice. OsHk6 was highly sensitive to isopentenyladenine (iP) and was capable of restoring cytokinin-dependent ARR6 reporter expression in the ahk2 ahk3 Arabidopsis mutant upon treatment with 1 nM iP. OsHk4 recognized trans-zeatin (tZ) and iP, while OsHk3 scarcely induced cytokinin signaling activity. OsHk4 and OsHk6 mediated the canonical two-component signaling cascade of Arabidopsis to induce phosphorylation of ARR2. OsHk4 and OsHk6 were highly expressed in spikelets, suggesting that tZ and iP might play key roles in grain development. OsHk6 formed a self-interacting homomer in rice protoplasts, although the trans-phosphorylation activity between subunits was much lower than the intra-molecular trans-phosphorylation activity. This indicates that the action mechanism of OsHks is evolutionarily diverged from bacterial histidine kinases. Ectopic expression of OsHk6 in rice calli promoted green pigmentation and subsequent shoot induction, further supporting an OsHk6 in planta function as a cytokinin receptor. From the results of this study, OsHks are homomeric cytokinin receptors with distinctive cytokinin preferences in rice.
22643708	Food fortification is advocated to tackle iron deficiency in anemic populations. Our objective was to evaluate the impact of iron-fortified rice (Ultrarice(®)) weekly on hemoglobin and anemia levels compared with standard rice (control). This cluster-randomized study deals with infants (10-23 months) from two public child day care centers in Brazil, n = 216, in an 18 week intervention. The intervention group received individual portions of fortified rice (50 g) provided 56.4 mg elemental/Fe. For intervention center: baseline mean hemoglobin was 11.44 ± 1.07 g/dl, and after intervention 11.67 ± 0.96 g/dl, p < 0.029; for control: baseline mean hemoglobin value was 11.35 ± 4.01 g/dl, and after intervention 11.36 ± 2.10 g/dl, p = 0.986. Anemia prevalence for intervention center was 31.25% at baseline, and 18.75% at end of study, p = 0.045; for control 43.50% were anemic at baseline, and 37.1% at the end of study, p = 0.22. Number Needed to Treat was 7. Iron-fortified rice was effective in increasing hemoglobin levels and reducing anemia in infants.
22643901	We report the isolation of Pi1, a gene conferring broad-spectrum resistance to rice blast (Magnaporthe oryzae). Using loss- and gain-of-function approaches, we demonstrate that Pi1 is an allele at the Pik locus. Like other alleles at this locus, Pi1 consists of two genes. A functional nucleotide polymorphism (FNP) was identified that allows differentiation of Pi1 from other Pik alleles and other non-Pik genes. A extensive germplasm survey using this FNP reveals that Pi1 is a rare allele in germplasm collections and one that has conferred durable resistance to a broad spectrum of pathogen isolates.
22643902	TaGW2, an orthologous gene of rice OsGW2, has been associated with kernel width and weight of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). Difference in TaGW2 coding sequence was not found among different wheat varieties in previous researches. In this study, we found eight exons and seven introns in TaGW2 with a full-length cDNA sequence of 1,275 bp, which contains a conserved function domain and seven splice sites that shared homology with rice OsGW2. A single T-base insertion in the eighth exon of TaGW2 on chromosome 6A was detected in a large-kernel wheat variety, Lankaodali. This insertion mutation reduces the coding protein sequence from normal 424 amino acids (~47.2 kDa) to 328 amino acids (~37.1 kDa) by truncating 96 amino acids. The result was validated by identifying histidine-tagged TaGW2 proteins encoded by both alleles of the mutant and the wild types in SDS-PAGE. Allele-specific PCR markers were developed based on the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) site. The SNP markers were genotyped for an F(2) segregation population from the cross of Lankaodali × Chinese Spring. Seed traits of F(2:3) families were evaluated in three different environments. The association analysis indicated that F(2:3) families with the mutated TaGW2 allele significantly increased kernel width (KW) and thousand-kernel weight (TKW), and slightly improved kernel length (KL). Using the SNP markers, another two varieties harbored the mutated TaGW2 allele were successfully identified from 22 additional wheat varieties, and they both have large KW and TKW. Cloning and sequencing of the gene further confirmed the functions of the mutated allele of TaGW2 in the two large kernel varieties. The results suggested that TaGW2 may negatively regulate kernel size variation, which shares the same function as OsGW2 in rice. The successful development of SNP markers provides a useful tool for improving kernel yield in wheat.
22643909	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of 21-24 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that down-regulate gene expression by cleaving or inhibiting the translation of target gene transcripts. miRNAs have been extensively analyzed in a few model plant species such as Arabidopsis, rice and Populus, and partially investigated in other non-model plant species. However, only a few conserved miRNAs have been identified in Chinese cabbage, a common and economically important crop in Asia. To identify novel and conserved miRNAs in Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa L. ssp. pekinensis) we constructed a small RNA library. Using high-throughput Solexa sequencing to identify microRNAs we found 11,210 unique sequences belonging to 321 conserved miRNA families and 228 novel miRNAs. We ran a Blast search with these sequences against the Chinese cabbage mRNA database and found 2,308 and 736 potential target genes for 221 conserved and 125 novel miRNAs, respectively. The BlastX search against the Arabidopsis genome and GO analysis suggested most of the targets were involved in plant growth, metabolism, development and stress response. This study provides the first large scale-cloning and characterization of Chinese cabbage miRNAs and their potential targets. These miRNAs add to the growing database of new miRNAs, prompt further study on Chinese cabbage miRNA regulation mechanisms, and help toward a greater understanding of the important roles of miRNAs in Chinese cabbage.
22644441	Insertion of transposed elements into introns can lead to their activation as alternatively spliced cassette exons, an event called exonization, which can enrich the complexity of transcriptomes and proteomes. In this study, the first exonization event was detected when the modified rice EPSPS marker gene was inserted with the Ac transposon 5' end, which provided a splice donor site to yield abundant novel transcripts. To assess the contribution of splice donor and acceptor sites of transposon sequences, we inserted a Ds element into each intron of the EPSPS marker gene. This process yielded 14 constructs, with the Ds transposon inserted in the forward and reverse direction in each of the 7 introns of the EPSPS marker gene. The constructs were transformed into tobacco plants, and novel transcripts were identified by RT-PCR with specific primers. Exonization of Ds in EPSPS was biased towards providing splice donor sites of the inserted Ds sequence. Additionally, when the Ds inserted in reverse direction, a continuous splice donor consensus region was determined by offering 4 donor sites in the same intron. Information on these exonization events may help enhance gene divergence and functional genomic studies.
22644442	Salinity, one of the most deleterious stresses, affects growth and overall yield of crop plants. To identify new "candidate genes" having potential role in salinity tolerance, we have carried out 'functional screening' of a cDNA library (made from a salt tolerant rice-Pokkali). Based on this screening, we identified a cDNA clone that was allowing yeast cells to grow in the presence of 1.2 M NaCl. Sequencing and BLAST search identified it as mannose-1-phosphate guanyl transferase (OsMPG1) gene from rice. Analysis of rice genome sequence database indicated the presence of 3 additional genes for MPG. Out of four, three MPG genes viz. OsMPG1, 3 and 4 were able to functionally complement yeast MPG mutant -YDL055C. We have carried out detailed transcript profiling of all members of MPG family by qRT-PCR using two contrasting rice genotypes (IR64 and Pokkali) under different abiotic stresses (salinity, drought, oxidative stress, heat stress, cold or UV light). These MPG genes showed differential expression under various abiotic stresses with two genes (OsMPG1 and 3) showing high induction in response to multiple stresses. Analysis of rice microarray data indicated higher expression levels for OsMPG1 in specific tissues such as roots, leaves, shoot apical meristem and different stages of panicle and seed development, thereby indicating its developmental regulation. Functional validation of OsMPG1 carried out by overexpression in the transgenic tobacco revealed its involvement in enhancing salinity stress tolerance.
22644443	Graminaceous plants acquire iron by secreting mugineic acid family phytosiderophores into the rhizosphere and taking up complexes of iron and phytosiderophores through YSL (yellow stripe 1-like) transporters. Rice OsYSL15 is a transporter of the iron(III)-2'-deoxymugineic acid complex. OsYSL16 has 85 % similarity to both OsYSL15 and the iron(II)-nicotianamine transporter OsYSL2. In the present study, we show that OsYSL16 functionally complemented a yeast mutant defective in iron uptake when grown on medium containing iron(III)-deoxymugineic acid, but not when grown on medium containing iron(II)-nicotianamine. OsYSL16-knockdown seedlings were smaller than wild-type seedlings when only iron(III)chloride was supplied as an iron source. The iron concentration in shoots of OsYSL16-knockdown plants was similar to that of the wild type; however, they showed more severe chlorosis than wild-type plants under iron-deficient conditions. Furthermore, OsYSL16-knockdown plants accumulated more iron in the vascular bundles of the leaves. Expression of the OsYSL16 promoter fused to the β-glucuronidase gene showed that OsYSL16 is expressed in the root epidermis and vascular bundles of whole plants. The expression was typically observed around the xylem. In the vascular bundles of unelongated nodes, it was detected in the xylem of old leaves and the phloem of new leaves. Graminaceous plants translocate iron from the roots to old leaves mainly via the xylem and to new leaves mainly via the phloem. Our results suggest that OsYSL16 plays a role in the allocation of iron(III)-deoxymugineic acid via the vascular bundles.
22644643	The components of a natural medium were optimized to produce cellulase from a marine Aspergillus niger under solid state fermentation conditions by response surface methodology. Eichhornia crassipes and natural seawater were used as a major substrate and a source of mineral salts, respectively. Mineral salts of natural seawater could increase cellulase production. Raw corn cob and raw rice straw showed a significant positive effect on cellulase production. The optimum natural medium consisted of 76.9 % E. crassipes (w/w), 8.9 % raw corn cob (w/w), 3.5 % raw rice straw (w/w), 10.7 % raw wheat bran (w/w), and natural seawater (2.33 times the weight of the dry substrates). Incubation for 96 h in the natural medium increased the biomass to the maximum. The cellulase production was 17.80 U/g the dry weight of substrates after incubation for 144 h. The natural medium avoided supplying chemicals and pretreating substrates. It is promising for future practical fermentation of environment-friendly producing cellulase.
22645473	The morphostructure of grain rice Morelos A-98 was characterized in five stages of physiological maturation, in order to generate morphometric information during the filling process. Micrographic images from optical and scanning electron microscopy coupled to a digital capture system were used. Images were digitally processed to measure different descriptors such as shape, fractal dimension, and surface texture. Results showed that, two weeks after anthesis, an accelerated grain filling was observed, particularly on those grains positioned in the distal panicle zone, compared to those located in the base of this one. As deposition of assimilates in the grain increased, the area and perimeter of the transversal cut of the grains also increased (P ≤ 0.05); meanwhile, the rounded shape factor tended to increase as well (P ≤ 0.05), while the elliptic shape factor decreased. As the dehydrated endosperm passed from "milky" to "doughy" stages, values of fractal dimension area and endosperm perimeter as well as surface texture values showed that grain borders tended to become smoother and that there was a greater structured endosperm area (P ≤ 0.05).
22645542	Inorganic ammonium ions are assimilated by a coupled reaction of glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthase (GOGAT). In rice, three genes encoding either ferredoxin (Fd)-GOGAT, NADH-GOGAT1, or NADH-GOGAT2, have been identified. OsNADH-GOGAT2, a newly identified gene, was expressed mainly in fully expanded leaf blades and leaf sheaths. Although the distinct expression profile to OsNADH-GOGAT1, which is mainly detected in root tips, developing leaf blades, and grains, was shown in our previous studies, physiological role of NADH-GOGAT2 is not yet known. Here, we isolated retrotransposon mediated-knockout mutants lacking OsNADH-GOGAT2. In rice grown under paddy field conditions, disruption of the OsNADH-GOGAT2 gene caused a remarkable decrease in spikelet number per panicle associated with a reductions in yield and whole plant biomass, when compared with wild-type (WT) plants. The total nitrogen contents in the senescing leaf blade of the mutants were approximately a half of the WT plants. Expression of this gene was mainly detected in phloem companion cells and phloem parenchyma cells associated with large vascular bundles in fully expanded leaf blades, when the promoter region fused with a β-glucuronidase gene was introduced into the WT rice. These results suggest that the NADH-GOGAT2 is important in the process of glutamine generation in senescing leaves for the remobilization of leaf nitrogen through phloem to the panicle during natural senescence. These results also indicate that other GOGATs, i.e., NADH-GOGAT1 and ferredoxin-GOGAT are not able to compensate the function of NADH-GOGAT2.
22645559	Peroxisomes are small subcellular organelles mediating a multitude of processes in plants. Proteomics studies over the last several years have yielded much needed information on the composition of plant peroxisomes. In this review, the status of peroxisome proteomics studies in Arabidopsis and other plant species and the cumulative advances made through these studies are summarized. A reference Arabidopsis peroxisome proteome is generated, and some unique aspects of Arabidopsis peroxisomes that were uncovered through proteomics studies and hint at unanticipated peroxisomal functions are also highlighted. Knowledge gained from Arabidopsis was utilized to compile a tentative list of peroxisome proteins for the model monocot plant, rice. Differences in the peroxisomal proteome between these two model plants were drawn, and novel facets in rice were expounded upon. Finally, we discuss about the current limitations of experimental proteomics in decoding the complete and dynamic makeup of peroxisomes, and complementary and integrated approaches that would be beneficial to defining the peroxisomal metabolic and regulatory roadmaps. The synteny of genomes in the grass family makes rice an ideal model to study peroxisomes in cereal crops, in which these organelles have received much less attention, with the ultimate goal to improve crop yield.
22645565	In support of the international effort to obtain a reference sequence of the bread wheat genome and to provide plant communities dealing with large and complex genomes with a versatile, easy-to-use online automated tool for annotation, we have developed the TriAnnot pipeline. Its modular architecture allows for the annotation and masking of transposable elements, the structural, and functional annotation of protein-coding genes with an evidence-based quality indexing, and the identification of conserved non-coding sequences and molecular markers. The TriAnnot pipeline is parallelized on a 712 CPU computing cluster that can run a 1-Gb sequence annotation in less than 5 days. It is accessible through a web interface for small scale analyses or through a server for large scale annotations. The performance of TriAnnot was evaluated in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and general fitness using curated reference sequence sets from rice and wheat. In less than 8 h, TriAnnot was able to predict more than 83% of the 3,748 CDS from rice chromosome 1 with a fitness of 67.4%. On a set of 12 reference Mb-sized contigs from wheat chromosome 3B, TriAnnot predicted and annotated 93.3% of the genes among which 54% were perfectly identified in accordance with the reference annotation. It also allowed the curation of 12 genes based on new biological evidences, increasing the percentage of perfect gene prediction to 63%. TriAnnot systematically showed a higher fitness than other annotation pipelines that are not improved for wheat. As it is easily adaptable to the annotation of other plant genomes, TriAnnot should become a useful resource for the annotation of large and complex genomes in the future.
22645600	RNA binding proteins (RBPs) play an important role not only in nuclear gene expression, but also in cytosolic events, including RNA transport, localization, translation, and stability. Although over 200 RBPs are predicted from the Arabidopsis genome alone, relatively little is known about these proteins in plants as many exhibit no homology to known RBPs in other eukaryotes. Furthermore, RBPs likely have low expression levels making them difficult to identify and study. As part of our continuing efforts to understand plant cytosolic gene expression and the factors involved, we employed a combination of affinity chromatography and proteomic techniques to enrich for low abundance RBPs in developing rice seed. Our results have been compiled into RiceRBP (http://www.bioinformatics2.wsu.edu/RiceRBP), a database that contains 257 experimentally identified proteins, many of which have not previously been predicted to be RBPs. For each of the identified proteins, RiceRBP provides information on transcript and protein sequence, predicted protein domains, details of the experimental identification, and whether antibodies have been generated for public use. In addition, tools are available to analyze expression patterns for the identified genes, view phylogentic relationships and search for orthologous proteins. RiceRBP is a valuable tool for the community in the study of plant RBPs.
22646149	Asian wild rice (Oryza rufipogon) that ranges widely across the eastern and southern part of Asia is recognized as the direct ancestor of cultivated Asian rice (O. sativa). Studies of the geographic structure of O. rufipogon, based on chloroplast and low-copy nuclear markers, reveal a possible phylogeographic signal of subdivision in O. rufipogon. However, this signal of geographic differentiation is not consistently observed among different markers and studies, with often conflicting results. To more precisely characterize the phylogeography of O. rufipogon populations, a genome-wide survey of unlinked markers, intensively sampled from across the entire range of O. rufipogon is critical. In this study, we surveyed sequence variation at 42 genome-wide sequence tagged sites (STS) in 108 O. rufipogon accessions from throughout the native range of the species. Using Bayesian clustering, principal component analysis and amova, we conclude that there are two genetically distinct O. rufipogon groups, Ruf-I and Ruf-II. The two groups exhibit a clinal variation pattern generally from north-east to south-west. Different from many earlier studies, Ruf-I, which is found mainly in China and the Indochinese Peninsula, shows genetic similarity with one major cultivated rice variety, O. satvia indica, whereas Ruf-II, mainly from South Asia and the Indochinese Peninsula, is not found to be closely related to cultivated rice varieties. The other major cultivated rice variety, O. sativa japonica, is not found to be similar to either O. rufipogon groups. Our results support the hypothesis of a single origin of the domesticated O. sativa in China. The possible role of palaeoclimate, introgression and migration-drift balance in creating this clinal variation pattern is also discussed.
22646661	An on-line solid-phase extraction (SPE) following a liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) method was established for the simultaneous analysis of bisphenol A (BPA), nonylphenol (NP), and octylphenol (OP) in cereals (including rice, maize, and wheat). The target compounds were extracted by acetonitrile, purified by an automated on-line SPE cartridge, and analyzed by LC-MS/MS under the negative-ion mode. Mean recoveries fortified at three concentration levels ranged from 81.6 to 115.7%, and the coefficient of variation ranged from 4.6 to 19.9% (n = 6). The limits of quantification (LOQs) of the method were 0.5, 0.5, and 0.25 μg/kg for BPA, NP, and OP, respectively, in both rice and maize, while the LOQs in wheat were 0.5, 1.25, and 0.5 μg/kg for BPA, NP, and OP, respectively. This method was applied in the analysis of rice, maize, and wheat from a local market. As a result, NP occurred in all cereal samples at the concentration range of 9.4-1683.6 μg/kg and BPA was detected in a few samples.
22646787	1. Fermented plant product (FPP) is a natural fermented food which is produced from a mixture of fermented fruit and vegetables, and rice bran (1:9). 2. To investigate the effects of FPP on growth performance, some blood variables, carcase characteristics and intestinal histology were determined in 192 broilers. They were divided into 4 groups, with 4 replicates of 12 chicks each; the chicks were provided ad libitum access to a diet consisting of 0, 0·5, 2·0 and 4·0% dietary FPP. 3. The crude protein and metabolisable energy concentrations of these diets were adjusted to 230 g CP/kg and 13·40 MJ ME/kg for the 7 to 21 d old chicks, and 200 g CP/kg and 13·40 MJ ME/kg for the 22 to 49 d old chicks, respectively. 4. At 49 d of age, feed intake, body weight gain and feed efficiency tended to increase with increase in FPP concentrations. Feed intake increased in the 4·0% dietary FPP group, BW gain increased in the 2·0% and 4·0% dietary FPP groups and feed efficiency increased in all experimental groups. 5. There were no differences among diets in the blood variables and carcase characteristics, except for total visceral organ weight, increased in all experimental groups. 6. Most of the intestinal villus heights, villus areas, epithelial cell areas and cell mitosis tended to increase with increase in FPP concentrations; duodenal villus height and cell mitosis in the 2·0 and 4·0% dietary FPP groups, and jejunal cell mitosis in all experimental groups were significantly increased. Compared with flat cells on the villus apical surface in the 0% FPP group, all experimental groups had protuberant cells in all intestinal parts. 7. In conclusion, hypertrophy of the villi and epithelial cells was observed in the present study, indicating improved growth performance, especially in the 4·0% dietary FPP group. Furthermore, increased total visceral organ weights suggested that FPP has no harmful effects on broilers.
22647312	Nanosized (5 to 10 nm) amorphous and crystalline nanocondensates, i.e., metallic α-phase of Zn-Cu alloy in face-centered cubic structure and (Zn,H)-codoped cuprite (Cu2O) with high-pressure-favored close-packed sublattice, were formed by pulsed laser ablation on bulk Cu65Zn35 in water and characterized by X-ray/electron diffractions and optical spectroscopy. The as-fabricated hybrid nanocondensates are darkish and showed photoluminescence in the whole visible region. Further dwelling of such nanocondensates in water caused progressive formation of a rice-like assembly of (Zn,H)-codoped tenorite (CuO) nanoparticles with (001), (100), and {111} preferred orientations, (111) tilt boundary, yellowish color, and minimum bandgap narrowing down to ca. 2.7 eV for potential photocatalytic applications.
2264764	The effects of feeding naturally contaminated feedstuffs to sheep were investigated through feeding of contaminated and uncontaminated clover hay, rice straw, and concentrate feed mixture were compared. The highest level of contamination with fungi was observed in the concentrate feed mixture followed by clover hay and rice straw. The most dominant mycotoxin in the contaminated feedstuffs was zearalenone. Contamination resulted in increases of crude protein, ash and silica in feedstuffs while both ether extract and crude fibre decreased. In vivo digestibility of different diet constituents in both contaminated and uncontaminated feedstuffs were determined using four mature Rahmani rams. Contamination resulted in significant increase in the digestibility of dry matter, crude fibre and energy. Contamination affected feed intake of the different feedstuffs particularly the concentrate feed mixture. A metabolism trial was also conducted to study the nitrogen and mineral balance. Retention of nitrogen and calcium was reduced when mouldy feeds were given. On the other hand, magnesium was relatively increased. Blood analysis for sheep at the end of the trials resulted in elevated values of inorganic phosphorus and phospholipid phosphorus and declined total nitrogen, calcium, cholesterol, calcium/phosphorus ratio and cholesterol/calcium ratio due to feeding on mouldy ration. Results of the urine analysis during the metabolism trials proved that mouldy ration increased the estimated values of the concentration of calcium, magnesium and vitamin C; whereas pH values, total nitrogen, ammonia nitrogen and inorganic phosphorus were declined during the feeding on the mouldy ration. Mouldy feeds tested, seemed to have toxic, nephritic and hepatic effect.
22648351	The adsorption of crystal violet from aqueous solution by NaOH-modified rice husk was investigated in a laboratory-scale fixed-bed column. A two-level three factor (2(3)) full factorial central composite design with the help of Design Expert Version 7.1.6 (Stat Ease, USA) was used for optimisation of the dynamic dye adsorption process and evaluation of interaction effects of different operating parameters: initial dye concentration (100-200 mg L(-1)), flow rate (10-30 mL min(-1)) and bed height (5-25 cm). A correlation coefficient (R (2)) value of 0.999, model F value of 1,936.59 and its low p value (<0.0001) along with lower value of coefficient of variation (1.38 %) indicated the fitness of the response surface quadratic model developed during the present study. Numerical optimisation applying desirability function was used to identify the optimum conditions for a targeted breakthrough time of 12 h. The optimum conditions were found to be initial solution pH=8.00, initial dye concentration=100 mg L(-1), flow rate=22.88 mL min(-1) and bed height=18.75 cm. A confirmatory experiment was performed to evaluate the accuracy of the optimised procedure. Under the optimised conditions, breakthrough appeared after 12.2 h and the column efficiency was determined as 99 %. The Thomas model showed excellent fit to the dynamic dye adsorption data obtained from the confirmatory experiment. Thereby, it was concluded that the current investigation gives valuable insights for designing and establishing a continuous wastewater treatment plant.
22648606	According to many theories of decision making, of which signal detection theory is the most prominent, randomness is the main factor responsible for imperfect performance. These theories imply that correcting for attenuation due to randomness should result in perfect scores as long as the participants use nonextreme decision criteria. On the basis of a recent advance termed potential performance theory (Trafimow & Rice, Psychological Review 115:447-462, 2008), we performed auditory and visual detection experiments and corrected the scores for attenuation. Most participants in both experiments tended to perform at a less-than-perfect level, even after their scores were corrected. The findings demonstrate that at least one systematic factor influences detection that is not included in signal detection theory.
22649273	A number of phosphate (Pi) starvation- or mycorrhiza-regulated Pi transporters belonging to the Pht1 family have been functionally characterized in several plant species, whereas functions of the Pi transporters that are not regulated by changes in Pi supply are lacking. In this study, we show that rice (Oryza sativa) Pht1;1 (OsPT1), one of the 13 Pht1 Pi transporters in rice, was expressed abundantly and constitutively in various cell types of both roots and shoots. OsPT1 was able to complement the proton-coupled Pi transporter activities in a yeast mutant defective in Pi uptake. Transgenic plants of OsPT1 overexpression lines and RNA interference knockdown lines contained significantly higher and lower phosphorus concentrations, respectively, compared with the wild-type control in Pi-sufficient shoots. These responses of the transgenic plants to Pi supply were further confirmed by the changes in depolarization of root cell membrane potential, root hair occurrence, (33)P uptake rate and transportation, as well as phosphorus accumulation in young leaves at Pi-sufficient levels. Furthermore, OsPT1 expression was strongly enhanced by the mutation of Phosphate Overaccumulator2 (OsPHO2) but not by Phosphate Starvation Response2, indicating that OsPT1 is involved in the OsPHO2-regulated Pi pathway. These results indicate that OsPT1 is a key member of the Pht1 family involved in Pi uptake and translocation in rice under Pi-replete conditions.
