11678275	Brassinazole is the only known specific brassinosteroid (BR)-biosynthesis inhibitor, and it has been shown to be useful for elucidating the function of BRs. In the course of a structure-activity relationship study of brassinazole, we found a more specific BR-biosynthesis inhibitor, Brz2001. This new inhibitor induced similar morphological changes to those seen in brassinazole-treated plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., Nicotiana tabacum L., and Lepidium sativum L. These changes included dwarfism with altered leaf morphology, including downward curling and dark-green color, and the changes were reversed by brassinolide. Although the structure of Brz2001 is similar to that of uniconazole, a gibberellin-biosynthesis inhibitor, Brz2001-treated plants showed almost no recovery with the addition of gibberellic acid (GA3). Comparison of the responses of both brassinazole- and Brz2001-treated cress to brassinolide and GA3 suggested that Brz2001 is a more specific BR-biosynthesis inhibitor than brassinazole. Unlike the results just described, Brz2001-treated rice did not show any morphological changes. This suggests that the roles of BRs in rice may be different from those in the dicotyledonous plants examined in this study. Brz2001 can be used to clarify the function of BRs in dicots as a complement to BR-deficient mutants, and to elucidate the different roles of BRs in monocots and dicots.
11678587	Fungal strains belonging to the genera Fusarium, Paecilomyces and Trichoderma were tested in vitro in order to study their effects against Schizaphis graminum, one of the major pests of cereal crops around the world. Biological assays were performed using a solid formulation that was obtained from fungal cultures grown on rice and then finely ground (<0.2 mm). The occurrence of toxic secondary metabolites (fumonisin B1 and beauvericin) produced by these fungi was also investigated. In each experiment, three groups of aphids: 15-hour old larvae, 5-day old nymphs with wing buds and wingless morphs were treated with a suspension of a fungal formulation. Some strains belonging to the genera Fusarium and Trichoderma significantly controlled the specimens of the three groups of S. graminum. The F proliferatum strain ITEM 1407, producing a high level of fumonisin B1 in the culture (1250 microg/g), and F larvarum strain ITEM 2139 had high insecticidal activity (>60%) within 10 minutes after application. As F. larvarum ITEM 2139 did not produce metabolites toxic to mammals, it might be a good candidate as a biocontrol agent of S. graminum in the field.
11679284	The malted rice, koji, is an indispensable material for the brewing of sake. It saccharifies rice starch and supplies vitamins for the yeast in sake brewing. Since the quality of sake depends strongly on the quality of koji, quality control of koji is very important in the brewing. There are some methods to measure the activity of enzymes and the quantity of vitamins with the quality of koji. None of these methods, however, directly relate to the yeast metabolism. We constructed a sensor system to monitor the yeast metabolism in sake brewing by use of immobilized Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a Surface PhotoVoltage device (SPV). In this system, S. cerevisiae K701 and K9, designed for use in sake brewing by the Brewing Society of Japan, were employed as immobilized microbe. The pH change due to the production of organic acids in sake brewing is measured using the SPV. A linear relationship was observed between decrease in the photocurrent (the metabolism response) and the concentration to less than 60 mM of glucose (r=0.990). Then we measured the koji extract and observed the difference of response between K701 and K9 which corresponded to the productivity of acidic substances by batch test.
11679357	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria were isolated from the stems of wild and cultivated rice on a modified Rennie medium. Based on 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences, the diazotrophic isolates were phylogenetically close to four genera: Herbaspirillum, Ideonella, Enterobacter, and Azospirillum. Phenotypic properties and signature sequences of 16S rDNA indicated that three isolates (B65, B501, and B512) belong to the Herbaspirillum genus. To examine whether Herbaspirillum sp. strain B501 isolated from wild rice, Oryza officinalis, endophytically colonizes rice plants, the gfp gene encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) was introduced into the bacteria. Observations by fluorescence stereomicroscopy showed that the GFP-tagged bacteria colonized shoots and seeds of aseptically grown seedlings of the original wild rice after inoculation of the seeds. Conversely, for cultivated rice Oryza sativa, no GFP fluorescence was observed for shoots and only weak signals were observed for seeds. Observations by fluorescence and electron microscopy revealed that Herbaspirillum sp. strain B501 colonized mainly intercellular spaces in the leaves of wild rice. Colony counts of surface-sterilized rice seedlings inoculated with the GFP-tagged bacteria indicated significantly more bacterial populations inside the original wild rice than in cultivated rice varieties. Moreover, after bacterial inoculation, in planta nitrogen fixation in young seedlings of wild rice, O. officinalis, was detected by the acetylene reduction and (15)N(2) gas incorporation assays. Therefore, we conclude that Herbaspirillum sp. strain B501 is a diazotrophic endophyte compatible with wild rice, particularly O. officinalis.
116797
11681344	To observe and investigate the variation and heredity of the offspring of dry seeds of rice carried by satellite, hence to select early maturing mutants, and to cultivate directly "Ganzaoxian 47" new varieties for production application. Isozymes analyses and studies of the new varieties and its original CK varieties were made. Dry seeds of rice restorer line were carried to the space on board a recoverable satellite for 7 d in 1992. After recovery the seeds were planted in the field to study the agricultural characters, yield, disease resistance, rice quality and peroxidase isozymes change. Its agricultural characters, yield, disease resistance, rice quality and peroxidase isozymes all showed distinct changes, and new varieties were cultivate directively for production application. It could be considered that certain variations of the rice seeds induced by the space conditions were heritable to the offspring's, and directive cultivation of new varieties is possible for production application. It could be used as a new method for mutagenic seed breeding.
1168162	The effect of tea on iron absorption was studied in human volunteers. Absorption from solutions of FeCl3 and FeSO4, bread, a meal of rice with potato and onion soup, and uncooked haemoglobin was inhibited whether ascorbic acid was present or not. No inhibition was noted if the haemoglobin was cooked. The effect on the absorption of non-haem iron was ascribed to the formation of insoluble iron tannate complexes. Drinking tannin-containing beverages such as tea with meals may contribute to the pathogenesis of iron deficiency if the diet consists largely of vegetable foodstuffs.
11683269	Photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterile rice has a number of desirable characteristics for hybrid rice production. Previous studies identified pms1, located on chromosome 7, as a major locus for photoperiod-sensitive genic male sterility. The objective of this study was to localize the pms1 locus to a specific DNA fragment by genetic and physical mapping. Using 240 highly sterile individuals and a random sample of 599 individuals from an F2 population of over 5000 individuals from a cross between Minghui 63 and 32001S, we localized the pms1 locus by molecular marker analysis to a genetic interval of about 4 cM, 0.25 cM from RG477 on one side and 3.8 cM from R1807 on the other side. A contig map composed of seven BAC clones spanning approximate 500 kb in length was constructed for the pms1 region by screening a BAC library of Minghui 63 DNA using RFLP markers and chromosomal walking. Analysis of recombination events in the pms1 region among the highly sterile individuals reduced the length of the contig map to three BAC clones. Sequencing of one BAC clone, 2109, identified two SSR markers located 85 kb apart in the clone that flanked the pms1 locus on both sides, as indicated by the distribution of recombination events. We thus concluded that the pms1 locus was located on the fragment bounded by the two SSR markers.
11683273	We investigated how over-expression of a cDNA for human ornithine decarboxylase (odc) affects the polyamine pools in transgenic rice. We further investigated tissue-specific expression patterns and product accumulation levels of the transgene driven by either constitutive or seed-specific promoters. Our results indicate that: (1) whereas the expression of a heterologous arginine decarboxylase (adc) cDNA in rice resulted in increased putrescine and spermine levels only in seeds, plants engineered to express odc cDNA exhibited significant changes in the levels of all three major polyamines in seeds and also in vegetative tissues (leaves and roots); (2) there was no linear correlation between odc mRNA levels, ODC enzyme activity and polyamine accumulation, suggesting that control of the polyamine pathway in plants is more complex than in mammalian systems; (3) ODC activity and polyamine changes varied in different tissues, indicating that the pathway is regulated in a tissue-specific manner. Our results suggest that ODC rather than ADC is responsible for the regulation of putrescine synthesis in plants.
11683357	To establish a constitutive, high-efficiency expression system for Bacillus pumilus (B.P), we cloned random chromosomal DNA into promoter probe shuttle vector ECE7 and selected for strong promoter activity by chloramphenicol resistance of transformed B. pumilus cells. The nucleotide sequences of nine chromosomal fragments were determined. These DNA fragments range from 300 to 2200 bp in size. The transcription strength of these promoters was estimated by determination of CAT enzyme production in both E. coli and B. pumilus. Transcription start (TS) sites of the cat mRNA were located by primer extension by using total RNA. Preliminary analysis showed that three of the promoter sequences contain -35 and -10 regions like E. coli RNA polymerase sigma70 and B. subtilis sigma43 consensus sequences. One is similar to B. subtilis sigma29, the other two have no conserved sequences like any of the typical consensus sequences of the known sigma factors so far. To estimate the feasibility of the utilization of these promoters, one promoter fragment was subcloned and used to drive the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in B. pumilus cells. This is the first report of B. pumilus promoters randomly cloning from total DNA and molecular analysis of their consensus sequences.
11684198	In this paper we describe the synthesis of two new fluorinated brassinosteroids: (22R,23R)-22,23-dihydroxy-3alpha-fluorostigmastan-6-one and (22R,23R)-22,23-dihydroxy-3beta-fluorostigmastan-6-one. Their bioactivities were evaluated in the rice lamina inclination test and compared with that of 28-homocastasterone, 28-homotyphasterol and 28-homoteasterone, possible biosynthetic precursors of 28-homobrassinolide. Results confirmed expected similarities between the biosynthesis of 24-ethylbrassinosteroids (named as the 28-homo series) and that described for 24-methylbrassinosteroids, and also indicated that these precursors might exhibit per se activities.
1168442	To evaluate the potential for mycotoxin production by molds in dried beans, the mold flora of 114 samples was determined both before and after surface disinfection of the beans with 5% NaOCl. Surface disinfection substantially reduced mold incidence, indicating that contamination was mainly on the surface. The flora, both before and after disinfection, was dominated by species of the Aspergillus glaucus group, the toxicogenic species A ochracues, Penicillium cyclopium, and P. viridicatum, and species of Alternaria, Cladosporium, and Fusarium. The toxicogenic species Aspergillus flavis, A. versicolor, Penicillium Citrinum, P. expansum, P. islandicum, and P. urticae were encountered less frequently. Of 209 species of Aspergillus and Penicillium screened for mycotoxin production on sterile rice substrate, 114 produced one or more of the following mycotoxins: A. flavus, aflatoxins; A. ochraceus, ochratoxins; A. nidulans, A. unguis, and A. versicolor, sterigmatocystin; P. cyclopium, penicillic acid; P. citrinum and P. viridicatum, citrinin; P. urticae, patulin and griseofulvin. Sterigmatocystin production by A. unguis is reported for the first time.
11685533	Univalent chromosomes at meiotic metaphase I have a tendency to misdivide at the centromeres. Fusion of the misdivision products may produce Robertsonian translocations. The fine structure of the centromeres in Robertsonian wheat-rye translocation chromosomes was analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using two centromere-specific DNA clones: pRCS1, derived from rice, and pAWRC1, derived from rye. Clone pRCS1 hybridizes to the centromeres of all grasses including wheat and rye, whereas clone pAWRC1 is rye specific and hybridizes only to the centromeres of rye. Four of the six wheat-rye translocations derived from a single centric misdivision event (1st generation translocations) had hybrid centromeres, with approximately half of the centromere derived from rye and half from wheat. In the two other 1st generation translocations, the entire centromere was derived from rye. Among eight reconstructed wheat and rye chromosomes that originated from two consecutive centric misdivision-fusion events (2nd generation translocations), T1BS.1BL (derived from T1BS.1RL and T1RS.1BL) and one of three T2BS.2BL (derived from T2RS.2BL and T2BS.2RL) had hybrid centromeres. T1RS.1RL (derived from T1BS.1RL and T1RS.1BL), two of three T2BS.2BL, and all three T2RS.2RL (derived from T2RS.2BL and T2BS.2RL) had rye centromeres. All three 3rd generation translocations had hybrid centromeres with approximately half of the centromere derived from rye. There were no indications that the composite structure of the centromere in these chromosomes affected their behavior in mitosis or meiosis. These observations support the notion of a compound structure of the centromere in higher organisms, and indicate that during the centric breakage-fusion event, centromere breakage may occur in different positions along the segment of the chromosome that interacts with the spindle fibers. Normal behavior of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd generation centric translocations in mitosis and meiosis indicates that, at least in wheat and rye, centromeres are not chromosome specific.
11686200	The Ebro delta (NE Spain) is a 320 km2 wetland area of international importance for conservation. The area is devoted to rice farming and receives large amounts of pesticides. Industrial pollutants are also carried to the delta by the river. The information accumulated during the last 25 year on the effect of such pollution on the biota is reviewed in order to identify the existing gaps and needs for management. Organochlorine pesticides were legally used until 1977, which has resulted in the widespread presence of these compounds in the Ebro delta biota. Lethal, sublethal or other detrimental effects of these pesticides on wildlife in the area were poorly investigated, but negative effects on the reproduction of ducks and herons were reported. Nowadays, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are the main responsible of organochlorine pollution in the area: concentrations in biota samples are higher than levels observed in nearby coastal areas, as a result of the significant PCB inputs by the river which, in 1990, were evaluated at 126 kg yr(-1). The massive use of herbicides is thought to have contributed to the elimation of macrophyte vegetation in the lagoons during the eighties, which had strong consequences on diving ducks and coot populations. Weed control is also related to the loss of biodiversity held by rice fields. The massive and inadequate use of organophosphorus and carbamate pesticides (involving more than 20,000 t yr(-1) has produced some waterbird mortality events, and may have direct and indirect effects on other non-target organisms. The accumulation in the soil of lead pellets used in waterfowl shooting is estimated to kill some 16,300 waterbirds in the Ebro delta every year.
11693948	The neurological effects of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) have been extensively investigated in humans and in animals. The main focus in human studies has been on the effects in neonates and young children, although studies of adults have also been conducted. A great deal of concern exists that even low levels of PCBs transferred to the fetus across the placenta may induce long-lasting neurological damage. Because PCBs are lipophilic substances, there is also concem that significant amounts might be transferred to nursing infants via breast milk. Studies in humans who consumed large amounts of Great Lakes fish contaminated with environmentally persistent chemicals, including PCBs. have provided evidence that PCBs are important contributors to subtle neurobehavioral alterations observed in newborn children and that some of these alterations persist during childhood. Some consistent observations at birth have been motor immaturity and hyporeflexia and lower psychomotor scores between 6 months and 2 years old. There is preliminary evidence that highly chlorinated PCB congeners, which accumulate in certain fish, are associated with neurobehavioral alterations seen in some newbom children. Subtle neurobehavioral alterations have also been observed in children bom to mothers in the general population with the highest PCB body burdens. Because of the limitations of epidemiological studies, these effects cannot be attributed entirely to PCB exposure. In one general population study, there was strong evidence that dioxins, as well as PCBs, were contributors to the neurobehavioral effects seen in exposed children. Children born to women who accidentally consumed rice oil contaminated with relatively high amounts of PCBs and chlorinated dibenzofurans (CDFs) during pregnancy also had neurodevelopmental changes. Studies in animals support the human data. Neurobehavioral alterations have been also observed in rats and monkeys following prenatal and/or postnatal exposure to commercial Aroclor mixtures, defined experimental congener mixtures, single PCB congeners, and Great Lakes contaminated fish. In addition, monkeys exposed postnatally to PCB mixtures of congeneric composition and concentration similar to that found in human breast milk showed learning deficits long after exposure had ceased. A few other generalizations can be made from the data in animals. It appears that ortho-substituted PCB congeners are more active than coplanar PCBs in modifying cognitive processes. In addition, one effect observed in both rats and monkeys--deficits on delayed spatial alternation--has been known to be induced by exposure to ortho-substituted PCBs, defined experimental mixtures, and commercial Aroclors. Both dioxin-like and non-dioxin-like PCB congeners have been shown to induce neurobehavioral alterations in animals. Changes in levels of neurotransmitters in various brain areas have also been observed in monkeys, rats, and mice. Of all the observed changes, the most consistent has been a decrease in dopamine content in basal ganglia and prefrontal cortex, but further research is needed before specific neurobehavioral deficits can be correlated with PCB-induced changes in specific neurotransmitters in specific brain areas.
11694006	In an attempt to know whether highly consumed food might contribute to metal exposure, we analyzed cadmium, lead, and mercury in 27 rice grain samples commonly consumed in Saudi Arabia by atomic absorption spectrometry after acid digestion. The mean concentrations and ranges of cadmium, lead, and mercury in tested rice samples were 20.261 (range <DL-178.026 microg/kg), 134.819 (range 23.1-1529.0 microg/kg), and 3.186 (range <DL-43.573 microg/kg), respectively. The results showed high concentrations of metals and in some cases exceeded the Provisional Tolerance Weekly Intake (PTWI) recommended by FAO/WHO. It was also noted that different rice grain samples had varying concentrations of these metals. Because the bulk of literature warns against the cumulative effects of prolonged heavy metal exposure, regular consumption of rice by local populations might pose potential health problems.
11694092	Twenty-three Fusarium culmorum and 21 F. graminearum isolates were studied for their ability to produce mycotoxins and other secondary metabolites. The strains were cultivated on rice, and the extracts analysed by gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) after derivatization with pentafluoropropionic (PFP) reagent. Two F. culmorum strains formed nivalenol and its acetylated derivatives (chemotype II), while all F. graminearum and the other F. culmorum isolates produced deoxynivalenol (DON) via 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-acetyl-DON) (chemotype IA). 15-hydroxy-culmorin, followed by 5-hydroxy-culmorin were the main other metabolites produced F. culmorum, while 5-, 12- and an unidentified hydroxy-culmorin, suggested to be 14-hydroxy-culmorin, were the main metabolites of F. graminearum. The hydroxy-culmorin profile was found to be significantly different for the two Fusarium species. Minor amounts of about ten other hydroxy-culmorins, four hydroxy-culmorones and 3,13-dihydroxy- epiapotrichothecene were also detected in most cultures. Traces of sambucinol seemed to be present in some of the isolates, but were not detected in any significant amounts. The precursors in the biosynthetic sequence to 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol, 7,8-dihydroxycalonectrin and 15-deacetyl-7,8-dihydroxycalonectrin, were detected in most cultures. We also report the assignment of both the 1H and 13C NMR data of 15-deacetyl-7,8-dihydroxycalonectrin, which has only been reported incorrectly before.
11695183	Thiamethoxam is the first commercial neonicotinoid insecticide from the thianicotinyl subclass. It was discovered in the course of our optimisation program on neonicotinoids started in 1985. Novel variations of the nitroimino-heterocycle of imidacloprid led to 4-nitroimino-1,3,5-oxadiazinanes exhibiting high insecticidal activity. Among these, thiamethoxam (CGA 293433) was identified as the best compound and selected for worldwide development. The compound can be synthesised in only a few steps and high yield from easily accessible starting materials. Thiamethoxam acts by binding to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. It exhibits exceptional systemic characteristics and provides excellent control of a broad range of commercially important pests, such as aphids, jassids, whiteflies, thrips, rice hoppers, Colorado potato beetle, flea beetles and wireworms, as well as some lepidopteran species. In addition, a strong preventative effect on some virus transmissions has been demonstrated. Thiamethoxam is developed both for foliar/soil applications and as a seed treatment for use in most agricultural crops all over the world. Low use rates, flexible application methods, excellent efficacy, long-lasting residual activity and favourable safety profile make this new insecticide well-suited for modern integrated pest management programmes in many cropping systems.
11695265	The factors influencing the rice transformation frequency have been investigated by using 8 indica and japonica rice cultivars during the transformation procedures, such as induction of calli, selection, and regeneration. The following is the results: The immature embryos were pretreated in 4 degrees C for 4 or 7 days before inoculation, and the regeneration frequency of calli would be increased. High osmotic treatment may increase the possibility of transformation, especially for calli of 6 months or older. The transformation frequency was improved when selection pressure was removed during differentiation period. The V-type selection may be better than the normal selection. There is a difference of differentiation ability among the calli of three periods and it is found that the calli of two or three months are the best for transformation. Proline and DMSO can decrease browning rate of calli.
11695434	In order to predict carbon sequestration of vegetation with the future rise in atmospheric CO2 concentration, [CO2] and temperature, long term effects of high [CO2] and high temperature on responses of both photosynthesis and transpiration of plants as a whole community to environmental parameters need to be elucidated. Especially in the last decade, many studies on photosynthetic acclimation to elevated [CO2] at gene, cell, tissue or leaf level for only vegetative growth phase (i.e. before formation of reproductive organs) have been conducted all over the world. However, CO2 acclimation studies at population or community level for a whole growing season are thus far very rare. Data obtained from repeatable experiments at population or community level for a whole growing season are necessary for modeling carbon sequestration of a plant community. On the other hand, in order to stabilize material circulation in the artificial ecological system of Closed Ecology Experiment Facilities (CEEF), it is necessary to predict material exchange rates in the biological systems. In particular, the material exchange rate in higher plant systems is highly variable during growth periods and there is a strong dependence on environmental conditions. For this reason, dependencies of both CO2 exchange rate and transpiration rate of three rice populations grown from seed under differing conditions of [CO2] and day/night air temperature (350 microL CO2 L-1, 24/17 degrees C (population A); 700 microL CO2 L-1, 24/17 degrees C (population B) and 700 microL CO2 L-1, 26/19 degrees C (population C)) upon PPFD, leaf temperature and [CO2] were investigated every two weeks during whole growing season. Growth of leaf lamina, leaf sheath, panicle and root was also compared. From this experiment, it was elucidated that acclimation of instantaneous photosynthetic response of rice population to [CO2] occurs in vegetative phase through changes in ratio of leaf area to whole plant dry weight, LAR. But, in reproductive growth phase (i.e. after initiation of panicle formation), the difference between photosynthetic response to [CO2] of population A and that of population B decreased. Although LAR of population C was almost always less than that of population A, there was no difference between the photosynthetic response to [CO2] of population A at 24 degrees C and that of population C at 26 degrees C for its whole growth period. These results are useful to make a model to predict carbon sequestration of rice community, which is an important type of vegetation especially in Asia in future global environmental change.
11696369	Plants express a variety of proteins at the cell surface responsible for the transduction of regulatory information into the cell via receptors. In the present study, an attempt has been made to identify the components of the brassinosteroids (BRs) signaling transduction cascades in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) expressing the antisense strand of OsBRI1 transcript. A 60 kDa protein, immunologically characterized as mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), showed reduced phosphorylation activity in the membrane fractions of the OsBRI1 antisense rice over control, demonstrating the inhibition in the perception of BRs by the BRI1 receptor, when compared with the exogenously applied brassinolide. The phosphorylation activity of the 50 kDa Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase was however increased in the cytosolic fractions of OsBRI1 antisense over control. The data obtained suggest that MAPK and Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase in rice are discrete but parallel signaling cascades and might involve receptors other than BRI1 in response to BR stimulus.
11697144	We isolated and determined the nucleotide sequences of two genes encoding ubiquitin fused to a ribosomal protein, Ub-CEP52, from rice (Oryza sativa L.). The deduced amino-acid sequences of the two genes were found to be completely identical. The N-terminal region of 76 residues corresponds to ubiquitin, and the C-terminal region of 53 residues corresponds to ribosomal protein L40. A putative TATA-like sequence, a polypyrimidine sequence, and a similar sequence to telo-box were found in the promoter regions of the two genes. Furthermore, the putative tRNA(Pro) gene was found in the 5'-upstream region of one of them.
11699571	Field experiments were conducted on the experimental farm of the Taiwan Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) to examine seasonal changes in the amounts of chlorophylls in leaves and whole plants of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Tainung 67) grown in the first and the second crop seasons in 1998. Chlorophyll (Chl) differences between two crops and their relationships with growth were also investigated. The differences in climate conditions between the two crop seasons were quite phenomenal and led to different rates of plant growth and amounts of chlorophyll produced during the growth periods. Seasonal changes in Chla, Chlb, and total Chl were curvilinear in style, with Chla making up the major portion of total chlorophyll. Young plants of rice began with lower levels of chlorophyll, which increased as the plants developed, and decreased as the plants aged. A significant increase in chlorophyll occurred in the early stage of the second crop compared to that of the first crop, and the difference was maintained throughout the growing season. When the unit time transformation technique was used to exclude the difference in growth rate, the curves of the chlorophylls (Chla, Chlb, and total ChI) were similar in the two crops, but plants grown in the second crop season had higher levels of chlorophylls at the same time unit scale. Generally, the ratio of Chla to Chlb (Chla/Chlb) decreased after transplanting, indicating a significant reduction (p < 0.01) in the green-to-yellow pigment relationship. Plants grown in the first crop had higher Chla/Chlb ratios than those grown in the second crop, especially in leaf blades. Good agreement was found between growth traits and the respective total Chl cotent from regression analyses, and these growth traits were highly correlated with total Chl (R2 > 0.8). However, rice plants grown in the first crop showed a higher levels of plant growth and leaf area at the same chlorophyll level than those grown in the second crop. These results suggest that rice plants grown in the first crop may exhibit better growth and production than those grown in the second crop under normal growing conditions.
11699572	The carbon dioxide flux density in a subtropical cultivated rice paddy field were determined over four crop seasons (two consecutive years) at five stages of rice plant development, transplanting, active tillering, booting, flowering and ripening, and an idle period between crops. During 24 h sampling periods at those stages, the CO2 flux densities were measured and found to be -2,000 to 55,000 mg CO2/m2/day in the first year and 600 to 29,000 mg CO2/m2/day in the second year in acrylic chambers covering rice plants. The CO2 flux densities in glass domes without plants but with soil were -700 to 6,000 mg CO2/m2/day in the first year and 147 to 4,500 mg CO2/m2/day in the second year. The data for the CO2 flux density over an entire year are extrapolated. Although our non-controlled environment experiments have inherent drawbacks, the collected data indicate that continuous rice cultivation has a tendency to result in increased CO2 emissions.
1170015	The limit dextrinases from ungerminated oats and rice have been purified, and their substrate specificity compared with a bacterial isoamylase preparation. Both cereal enzymes could hydrolyse (1 yields6)-alpha-D-glucosidic linkages in oligosaccharide alpha-dextrins, pullulan, amylopectin, and the beta-limit dextrins of amylopectin and glycogen. However, under comparable conditions, they were unable to attack glycogens.
11700582	As rice genomicsdata continue to accumulate at a rapid rate, are becoming more valuable to warehouse and access large and rigorous data sets. This article gives an overview of available resources on rice bioinformatics and their role in elucidating and propagating biological and genomic information in rice. Of particular focus here is the informatics infrastructure developed at the Rice Genome Research Program (RGP) following an extensive rice genome analysis. The database named INE (Integrated Rice Genome Explorer) integrates the genetic and physical mapping information with the genome sequence being generated in collaboration with the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP). Database links are initially evaluated using an interoperable query tool to explore and compare data across the rice and maize genome databases and potential application to multiple crop database querying. A proposed logistics for interlinking these resources is presented to integrate, manipulate and analyze information on the rice genome. One of the biggest challenges of rice bioinformatics lies in the emerging role of rice as a model system among grass crop species. In view of the importance of comparative genetics in the formulation of new knowledge on plant genomes and genes, comparative bioinformatics remains an essential strategy to gain new insights on the needs and expectations on rice genomics.
11701831	Melanins are darkly pigmented polymers that protect organisms against environmental stress. Even when not directly involved in pathogenesis, fungal melanin is likely required by melanizing phytopathogens for survival in the environment. However, some phytopathogenic fungi that produce melanized appressoria for host invasion require appressorial melanogenesis for pathogenicity. Much less is known about the role melanins play in pathogenesis during infection by other phytopathogens that do not rely on appressoria for host penetration. Here we focus on one such phytopathogenic fungus, Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici, the etiologic agent of the devastating root disease of cereals, take-all. This fungus is lightly pigmented in culture, but requires melanin biosynthesis for pathogenesis, perhaps to produce melanized, ectotrophic macrohyphae on roots. However, the constitutively melanized, asexual Phialophora anamorph of G. graminis var. tritici is nonpathogenic. In addition, melanization of G. graminis var. graminis is not required to produce root disease on its rice host. Explanations for these apparent contradictions are suggested, as are other functions for the melanins of phytopathogenic fungi.
11701888	A 128-bp insertion into the maize waxy-B2 allele led to the discovery of Tourist, a family of miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs). As a special category of nonautonomous elements, MITEs are distinguished by their high copy number, small size, and close association with plant genes. In maize, some Tourist elements (named Tourist-Zm) are present as adjacent or nested insertions. To determine whether the formation of multimers is a common feature of MITEs, we performed a more thorough survey, including an estimation of the proportion of multimers, with 30.2 Mb of publicly available rice genome sequence. Among the 6600 MITEs identified, >10% were present as multimers. The proportion of multimers differs for different MITE families. For some MITE families, a high frequency of self-insertions was found. The fact that all 340 multimers are unique indicates that the multimers are not capable of further amplification.
11702687	Important development in plant biotechnology has been ushered in the 1990s, the most astounding field is the establishment of various transgenic crops, including cotton, corn, rice, tomato etc. In addition, utilization of transgenic plants for the generation of antibodies, gene epitopes and complex proteins has drawn much attention recently. Among these results, the use of plant parts with inducted antigens such as cholera toxin B subunit, toxigenic E. coli LT-B subunit as oral vaccines is attractive as a new route of medication. Considering their effectiveness as vaccines in animal and clinical tests, and simple agricultural practice for large scale production it is anticipated that these antibodies are bound to offer impact to health care for people of the Third World. In this short review, the laboratory and successful clinical test, merits and demerits in comparison with the currently used bioreactors, methods of extraction, and cost estimation of transgenic plant products for medical purposes are briefly reviewed.
11704678	Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates seed maturation, germination, and adaptation of vegetative tissues to environmental stresses. The mechanisms of ABA action and the specificity conferred by signaling components in overlapping pathways are not completely understood. The ABI5 gene (ABA insensitive 5) of Arabidopsis encodes a basic leucine zipper factor required for ABA response in the seed and vegetative tissues. Using transient gene expression in rice protoplasts, we provide evidence for the functional interactions of ABI5 with ABA signaling effectors VP1 (viviparous 1) and ABI1 (ABA insensitive 1). Co-transformation experiments with ABI5 cDNA constructs resulted in specific transactivation of the ABA-inducible wheat Em, Arabidopsis AtEm6, bean beta-Phaseolin, and barley HVA1 and HVA22 promoters. Furthermore, ABI5 interacted synergistically with ABA and co-expressed VP1, indicating that ABI5 is involved in ABA-regulated transcription mediated by VP1. ABI5-mediated transactivation was inhibited by overexpression of abi1-1, the dominant-negative allele of the protein phosphatase ABI1, and by 1-butanol, a competitive inhibitor of phospholipase D involved in ABA signaling. Lanthanum, a trivalent ion that acts as an agonist of ABA signaling, potentiated ABI5 transactivation. These results demonstrate that ABI5 is a key target of a conserved ABA signaling pathway in plants.
11706167	Phytosulfokine-alpha (PSK-alpha), a unique plant peptide growth factor, was originally isolated from conditioned medium of asparagus (Asparagus officinalis) mesophyll cell cultures. PSK-alpha has several biological activities including promoting plant cell proliferation. Four genes that encode precursors of PSK-alpha have been identified from Arabidopsis. Analysis of cDNAs for two of these, AtPSK2 and AtPSK3, shows that both of these genes consist of two exons and one intron. The predicted precursors have N-terminal signal peptides and only a single PSK-alpha sequence located close to their carboxyl termini. Both precursors contain dibasic processing sites flanking PSK, analogous to animal and yeast prohormones. Although the PSK domain including the sequence of PSK-alpha and three amino acids preceding it are perfectly conserved, the precursors bear very limited similarity among Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa), suggesting a new level of diversity among polypeptides that are processed into the same signaling molecule in plants, a scenario not found in animals and yeast. Unnatural [serine-4]PSK-beta was found to be secreted by transgenic Arabidopsis cells expressing a mutant of either AtPSK2 or AtPSK3 cDNAs, suggesting that both AtPSK2 and AtPSK3 encode PSK-alpha precursors. AtPSK2 and AtPSK3 were expressed demonstrably not only in cultured cells but also in intact plants, suggesting that PSK-alpha may be essential for plant cell proliferation in vivo as well as in vitro. Overexpression of either precursor gene allowed the transgenic calli to grow twice as large as the controls. However, the transgenic cells expressing either antisense cDNA did not dramatically decrease mitogenic activity, suggesting that these two genes may act redundantly.
11706193	The C(4)-Pdk gene encoding the C(4) enzyme pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK) of maize (Zea mays cv Golden Cross Bantam) was introduced into the C(3) plant, rice (Oryza sativa cv Kitaake). When the intact maize C(4)-Pdk gene, containing its own promoter and terminator sequences and exon/intron structure, was introduced, the PPDK activity in the leaves of some transgenic lines was greatly increased, in one line reaching 40-fold over that of wild-type plants. In a homozygous line, the PPDK protein accounted for 35% of total leaf-soluble protein or 16% of total leaf nitrogen. In contrast, introduction of a chimeric gene containing the full-length cDNA of the maize PPDK fused to the maize C(4)-Pdk promoter or the rice Cab promoter only increased PPDK activity and protein level slightly. These observations suggest that the intron(s) or the terminator sequence of the maize gene, or a combination of both, is necessary for high-level expression. In maize and transgenic rice plants carrying the intact maize gene, the level of transcript in the leaves per copy of the maize C(4)-Pdk gene was comparable, and the maize gene was expressed in a similar organ-specific manner. These results suggest that the maize C(4)-Pdk gene behaves in a quantitatively and qualitatively similar way in maize and transgenic rice plants. The activity of the maize PPDK protein expressed in rice leaves was light/dark regulated as it is in maize. This is the first reported evidence for the presence of an endogenous PPDK regulatory protein in a C(3) plant.
11706200	We compared the subcellular distribution of native and artificial reticuloplasmins in endosperm, callus, and leaf tissues of transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) to determine the distribution of these proteins among endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and post-ER compartments. The native reticuloplasmin was calreticulin. The artificial reticuloplasmin was a recombinant single-chain antibody (scFv), expressed with an N-terminal signal peptide and the C-terminal KDEL sequence for retrieval to the ER (scFvT84.66-KDEL). We found that both molecules were distributed in the same manner. In endosperm, each accumulated in ER-derived prolamine protein bodies, but also in glutelin protein storage vacuoles, even though glutelins are known to pass through the Golgi apparatus en route to these organelles. This finding may suggest that similar mechanisms are involved in the sorting of reticuloplasmins and rice seed storage proteins. However, the presence of reticuloplasmins in protein storage vacuoles could also be due to simple dispersal into these compartments during protein storage vacuole biogenesis, before glutelin deposition. In callus and leaf mesophyll cells, both reticuloplasmins accumulated in ribosome-coated vesicles probably derived directly from the rough ER.
11706799	Methane oxidation fluxes were monitored with the closed chamber method in eight treatment plots on a semi-wet grassland site near Giessen, Germany. The management regimes differed in the amount of nitrogen (NH4NO3) fertilizer applied and in the height of the in-ground water table. No inhibition of CH4 oxidation occurred, regardless of the amount of annual N fertilizer applied. Instead, the mean CH4 consumption rates were correlated with the mean soil moisture of the plots. However, the correlation between daily soil water content and corresponding CH4 oxidation rate was always weak. During drought period (late summer) water stress was observed to restrict CH4 oxidation rates. The findings led to the question whether methane production with soil depth might modify the CH4 fluxes measured at the surface. Therefore, two new methods were applied: (1) soil air sampling with silicone probes; and (2) anaerobic incubations of soil cores to test for the methane production potential of the grassland soil. The probe measurements revealed that the CH4 sink capacity of a specific site was related to the vertical length of its CH4 oxidizing column, i.e. the depth of the CH4 producing horizon. Anaerobically incubated soil cores produced large amounts of CH4 comparable with tropical rice paddy soil. Under field conditions, heavy autumnal rain in 1998 led to a dramatic increase of soil CH4 concentrations upto 51 microliters l-1 at a depth of 5 cm. Nevertheless, no CH4 was released when soil surface CH4 fluxes were measured simultaneously. The results thus demonstrate the high CH4 oxidation potential of the thin aerobic topsoil horizon in a non-aquatic ecosystem.
11707257	Herbaspirillum seropedicae is an endophytic diazotroph, which colonizes sugar cane, wheat, rice and maize. The activity of NifA, a transcriptional activator of nif genes in H. seropedicae, is controlled by ammonium ions through a mechanism involving its N-terminal domain. Here we show that this domain interacts specifically in vitro with the N-truncated NifA protein, as revealed by protection against proteolysis, and this interaction caused an inhibitory effect on both the ATPase and DNA-binding activities of the N-truncated NifA protein. We suggest that the N-terminal domain inhibits NifA-dependent transcriptional activation by an inter-domain cross-talk between the catalytic domain of the NifA protein and its regulatory N-terminal domain in response to fixed nitrogen.
11708146	A simple and sensitive method for the determination of liquid methanol and ethanol at trace levels by an alkyl nitrite formation reaction has been established. Alcohol was allowed to react with nitrous acid, which was yielded from sulfuric acid and sodium nitrite in the solution, to form the corresponding alkyl nitrite in the hexane organic phase. Alkyl nitrites in hexane were analyzed by a gas chromatograph with an electron capture detector (GC-ECD). The detection limits, which were determined at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3, were 1.1 and 0.7 micrograms/L for methanol and ethanol, respectively, by 1 microL injection. The relative standard deviations for n = 8 were 4.0 and 3.3% for methanol and ethanol, respectively. The method was applied to determine the alcohol concentration in a rice paddy, pond water, tap water, and well water. Those aqueous samples were also spiked with standard alcohols; the average recoveries of spiked methanol and ethanol were 98 and 91% with relative standard deviations of 6.1 and 4.0%, respectively.
11708308	Selenium (Se) concentrations were determined in human serum, rice and wheat flour sampled in the city of São Paulo, Brazil, and compared with those sampled in Tokyo. Japan. Serum levels of Se were significantly lower in Japanese Brazilians than Japanese living in Tokyo. The samples of rice consumed by Japanese Brazilians in São Paulo contained 22.7 ng Se/g on average, which was about half the selenium level in rice consumed in Tokyo. Rice commonly consumed in São Paulo might be one of the factors to lower the serum level of Se.
11708453	Streambed hydraulic conductivity (K) values were determined at seven stream transects in the Platte River Basin in Nebraska using different instream measurement techniques. Values were compared to determine the most appropriate technique(s) for use in sandy streambeds. Values of K determined from field falling- and constant-head permeameter tests analyzed using the Darcy equation decreased as permeameter diameter increased. Seepage meters coupled with hydraulic gradient measurements failed to yield K values in 40% of the trials. Consequently, Darcy permeameter and seepage meter tests were not preferred approaches. In the upper 0.25 m of the streambed, field falling- and constant-head permeameter tests analyzed with the Hvorslev solution generally had similar K values that were significantly greater than those determined using the Hazen grain-size, Bouwer and Rice slug test for anisotropic and isotropic conditions, and Alyamani and Sen grain-size methods; median differences between these tests and the Hvorslev falling-head 60 cm diameter permeameter were about 8, 9, 17, and 35 m/day, respectively. The Hvorslev falling-head permeameter test is considered the most robust method for measuring K of the upper 0.25 m of the streambed because of the inherent limitations of the empirical grain-size methods and less sediment disturbance for permeameter than slug tests. However, lateral variability in K along transects on the Platte, North Platte, and Wood Rivers was greater than variability in K between valid permeameter, grain-size, or slug tests, indicating that the method used may matter less than making enough measurements to characterize spatial variability adequately. At the Platte River tributary sites, the upper 0.3 m of the streambed typically had greater K than sediment located 0.3 to 2.5 m below the streambed surface, indicating that deposits below the streambed may limit ground water/surface water fluxes. The Hvorslev permeameter tests are not a practical measurement approach for these greater depths. Thus, selection of a method for measuring streambed K needs to consider the vertical location of the sediments that are most likely to limit the rate of ground water/surface water interaction.
11708583	Indonesia has been afflicted by an economic crisis since July 1997. The economic crisis was preceded by a long drought associated with El Nino. The result has been a decline in food production, especially rice. In the eastern part of the country, especially in Irian Jaya, there was food insecurity during the early stages of the economic crisis. When the crisis escalated to become an economic, social and political crisis in 1998, food insecurity spread to other provinces, especially to urban areas in Java. The crisis led to increasingly high inflation. unemployment, poverty, food insecurity and malnutrition. The official figures indicate that poverty in Indonesia increased from 22.5 million (11.3%) in 1996 to 36.5 million (17.9%) in 1998. Food production decreased by 20-30% in some parts of the country. Compared with prices in January 1998, food prices had escalated 1.5- to threefold by August/November 1998 when acute food shortages occurred, especially in urban Java. Coupled with a drop in purchasing power, the higher food prices worsened health, nutritional status and education of children of urban poor and unemployed families. Despite social and political uncertainties, the Indonesian Government has taken prompt action to prevent a worsening of the situation by massive imports of rice, instituting food price subsidies for the poor and launching social safety net programmes to cope with food shortages and malnutrition. The present paper attempts to highlight the impact of the economic crisis on food insecurity and malnutrition in Indonesia.
11708602	Diet has a strong relationship with food culture and changes in it are likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of newly emergent degenerative diseases. To obtain in-depth opinions about the food culture of Minangkabau people, focus group discussions were conducted in a Minangkabau region, represented by four villages in West Sumatra, Indonesia, from January to March 1999. The members of the discussion groups were principally women aged from 35 to 82 years old. Minangkabau culture is matriarchal and matrilineal which accounts for female gender dominants in the discussions. Rice, fish, coconut and chilli are the basic ingredients of the Minangkabau meals. Meat, especially beef and chicken, is mainly prepared for special occasions; pork is not halal and therefore not eaten by Muslim Minangkabau people; and for reasons of taste preference and availability, lamb, goat and wild game are rarely eaten. However, rendang, a popular meat dish, has been identified as one of the Minangkabau food culture characteristic dishes. Vegetables are consumed daily. Fruit is mainly seasonal, although certain kinds of fruit, such as banana, papaya and citrus, can be found all year around. Coconut has an important role in Minangkabau food culture and is the main source of dietary fat. While almost all food items consumed by the Minangkabau can be cooked with coconut milk, fried food with coconut oil is considered to be a daily basic food. Desiccated coconut is also used as a food ingredient on about a weekly basis and in snack foods almost every day. Although there have been no changes in food preparation and there is a slight difference in taste preference between the young and the old generations, there has been a dramatic shift in food preferences, which is reflected in the changing percentage of energy consumed over the past 15 years. The traditional combination of rice, fish and coconut in Minangkabau culture goes back hundreds of years, long before the emergence of the degenerative diseases of the newer economies, and is likely to offer food security and health protection to the Minangkabau for as long as the lifestyle remains traditional. Whether or not a recent increase in energy intake from fat and the quality of fat may contribute to the shift of disease pattern is fundamentally important for the Minangkabau, it seems unlikely the traditional use of coconut and its products was a health issue. Moreover, it was clear from the focus group discussions that the use of coconut encouraged the consumption of fish and vegetables.
11708612	The main substrates fuelling ion absorption in the mucosa of the small intestine and large intestine are respectively glutamine and short-chain fatty acids. Measurements now reported showed that derivation of both glutamine and fibre for short-chain fatty acid production can be achieved from a single foodstuff--macerated groundnuts. Macerated groundnuts may be more suitable as an additive in oral rehydration solutions for promoting ion absorption than other agents that are low either in glutamine or fibre, such as rice water or resistant starch.
11708651	Anther-targeted expression of E. coli DNA (Adenosine-N6-)-Methyltransferase (DAM) in maize was tested as a means to produce male-sterile plants. A high frequency of male-sterile plants with reduced anther size was observed when DAM was regulated by the maize anther-specific promoter 5126 (5126:DAM) and placed upstream of the herbicide resistance gene, pat, regulated by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter (35S:PAT). In contrast, placement of 5126:DAM upstream of a pat gene regulated by either the maize ubiquitin (UBI:PAT) or rice actin (rACTIN:PAT) promoters resulted in male-fertile plants. Based on these observed differences, DAM-mediated sterility was used as a phenotypic marker to assess the contribution of factors affecting gene expression such as orientation of the transcription units, choice of regulatory sequences mediating expression of adjacent genes, and effects of varying the anther-specific promoter regulating DAM. Constructs that place a portion of the CaMV 35S promoter, including the native AS-1 sequences, between 5126:DAM and UBI:PAT yielded a high frequency of male-sterile plants with reduced anther size. Significant differences in the frequency of male-sterile events and the associated anther size were also observed when the position of 35S:PAT was changed relative to 5126:DAM. These data provide evidence that gene expression in transformed maize plants can be impacted by simply altering the order, orientation or regulatory sequences of adjacent genes.
11708663	The beneficial effects have been studied of supplementing culture medium with 1:100-1:500 (v:v) of a commercial haemoglobin solution (Erythrogen) on the mitotic division of cell suspension-derived protoplasts of Indica rices (Oryza sativa L.). Protoplasts were cultured in liquid medium, at densities of 1.5 x 10(6) or 2.5 x 10(6) ml(-1), on nitrocellulose membranes overlaying a semi-solidified medium layer that was supplemented with both Erythrogen and nurse cells of Lolium multiflorum. The mean final plating efficiencies (FPEs) of rice cv. BR26 protoplasts cultured with 1:200 (v:v) Erythrogen, at 1.5 x 10(6) ml(-1) (0.018+/-0.003%; n = 8) and 2.5 x 10(6) ml(-1) (0.016+/-0.002%; n = 8), were both significantly (P < 0.05) greater than controls lacking Erythrogen (0.0058+/-0.002%; n = 8 and 0.0041+/-0.001%; n = 8, respectively). Similarly, the mean FPEs of cv. Bini protoplasts cultured with 1:200 (v:v) Erythrogen at 1.5 x 10(6) ml(-1) (0.012+/-0.003%; n = 6) and 2.5 x 10(6) ml(-1) (0.017+/-0.001%; n = 6) were also significantly (P < 0.05) greater than their respective controls (0.003+/-0.001%, n = 6 and 0.002+/-0.001%, n = 6). In contrast, supplementation with 1:100 or 1:500 (v:v) Erythrogen did not lead to sustained mitotic division and microcallus formation in both rice cultivars.
11710525	Two transgenic pepper plants were obtained from 255 seed explants that were infected with Agrobacterium LBA4404 (pGA1209). One of them (PT2) showed morphological change, such as dwarfism and early flowering by the constitutive expression of the rice OsMADS1 gene. The in vitro condition of the plant regeneration has been optimized from hypocotyl explants on a MS medium that was supplemented with zeatin 3 mg/L, IAA 0.3 mg/L for shoot induction. The optimal rooting condition was at NAA 0.3 mg/L. The transformation frequency was 0.8% from the total hypocotyls. DNA and RNA hybridization analyses showed that the introduced gene was integrated and stably expressed in regenerated plants.
11710957	The microsatellite, (GATA)n has been frequently used for DNA fingerprinting. However, very few attempts have been made to analyze (GATA)n-containing loci in rice. Three polymorphic (GATA)n-harboring loci viz. OS1A6, OS1H10 and OS2E7, containing 7-13 repeat motifs were identified from a genomic library of a cultivated rice, Oryza sativa var. Basmati-370 using oligonucleotide probe (GATA)4. When (GATA)n flanking primers were used to screen 26 wilds (representing different genomes of rice), 16 cultivars, 47 Indian elite rice varieties and 37 lines resistant/susceptible to bacterial blight, up to 22 alleles were obtained at an individual locus. Also, interestingly the bacterial blight resistant lines clustered into a separate group from the remaining rice genotypes, when a dendrogram was constructed based on the polymorphism obtained at the three loci. This may be due to the partial homology of the clones OS1H10 and OS2E7 to regions encoding O. longistaminata receptor kinase-like protein and pathogenesis-related protein. The ability of these O. sativa flanking primers to amplify DNA of maize, wheat, barley and oat indicates that these (GATA)n-containing loci are conserved across different cereal genera. The large allele number obtained reveals the potential of (GATA)n-containing loci as powerful tools to detect simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP). The (GATA)n-flanking primers were not only useful in distinguishing between closely related genotypes, but could also be used for cross-species amplification and are also conserved across different cereal genera. These loci could also cluster the bacterial blight resistant/susceptible lines into different groups based on the resistance genes present in them.
11713671	The promoter region of the rice ubiquitin2 (rubq2) gene was found to be polymorphic between japonica (T309) and indica (IR24) lines as the result of a 270-bp deletion in T309. A TTATA footprint in the T309 rubq2 promoter suggested that an excision event had occurred, and inspection of the 270-bp region present in IR24 revealed that it had all the characteristics of a miniature inverted repeat transposable element (MITE). Database searches showed that this element is a member of a new MITE family, which we have named Kiddo. Thirty-five complete Kiddo sequences were identified in existing rice genomic sequence databases. They could be arranged into four groups, within-group sequence identity was over 90%, with 65-75% identity between groups. The high sequence similarity within a group indicates that some Kiddo members were recently mobile and may still be active. An additional 24 decayed Kiddo sequences were detected. Interestingly, approximately 80% of 18 Kiddo members from annotated accessions lie within 530 bp of a coding sequence. That approximately 40% of Kiddo members present in genic regions reside in introns suggests that Kiddo transposition entails the use of both DNA and RNA intermediates, and may provide some insight into the origins of individual groups. DNA blot analysis showed that Kiddo is a rice-specific element, although one sequence with limited (72%) similarity to Kiddo group A was detected as a wheat EST. Kiddo family members may represent new molecular and phylogenetic markers, as well as representing valuable materials for studying the molecular mechanisms of MITE transposition.
11713677	We have isolated a new family of mobile elements, Micron, which occur within microsatellites dispersed throughout the rice (Oryza sativa) genome. The first of these segments, Micron 001, was found in a microsatellite consisting of a (TA)n sequence upstream of the rice phytochrome A (phyA) gene. PCR analysis of related rice species suggests that Micron 001 integrated into this microsatellite locus prior to the divergence of the two wild species O. rufipogon and O. barthii from a common ancestor. Micron elements are short (393-bp), possess subterminal inverted repeats and the single strands have the potential to form stable secondary structures via several internal repeats. Aside from the absence of terminal inverted repeats, these characteristics resemble those of MITEs (Miniature Inverted-Repeat Transposable Elements). We estimate that 100-200 copies of Micron-related sequences are present in the rice nuclear genome, while the chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes lack this sequence. Nineteen homologs of Micron 001 exhibited extremely high nucleotide sequence conservation (greater than 90%), suggesting a recent spread of Micron elements within the genus Oryza. Surprisingly, nucleotide sequence alignments showed that all of the Micron elements are flanked on both sides by microsatellite sequence consisting mainly of (TA)n. Twenty-three elements were mapped to seven separate chromosomes. Therefore Micron elements form a family of dispersed, highly conserved repeats. This is the first report of a transposable element that targets microsatellite loci.
11713745
11714291	A new method has been developed for the quantitative determination of hydroxycinnamic acids participating in ester or ether linkages to the cell wall polymers. The method is based on mild alkaline hydrolysis followed by acid hydrolysis or mild alkaline hydrolysis, which partially removed esterified phenolic acids, and high-temperature concentrated alkaline treatment, which cleaved both the ester and ether linkages. It was found that traditional mild alkaline hydrolysis and acid hydrolysis released only part of the ester- and ether-linked phenolic acids, respectively. Approximately half (44.0-47.9%) of the total ester-linked p-coumaric acid and 18.2-32.6% of the total esterified ferulic acid remained ester-linked to the mild alkali-soluble lignin polymers, and 55.0-72.0% of the total ether-linked p-coumaric acid and 37.5-53.8% of the total ether-linked ferulic acid remained ether-linked to the solubilized lignin molecules after the acid hydrolysis. To correct this, a second mild alkaline hydrolysis of the alkali-soluble lignin preparations and acid hydrolysis of the solubilized lignin fractions, obtained from the first acid hydrolysis of the cell wall materials, was investigated. On the basis of this new method, a majority of the cell wall p-coumaric acid (55.8-81.5%) was found to be ester-linked to cell wall components, mainly to lignin, and about half of the cell wall ferulic acid is etherified through its phenolic oxygen to the cell wall lignin component, whereas the remainder is esterified to the cell wall hemicelluloses and/or lignin in different plant materials.
11716459	To explore the function of small subunits of Rubisco, three hybrid enzymes were synthesized in Escherichia coli by construction of a transcriptionally coupled expression system in which the synthetic small subunit gene of rice, tobacco, and wheat, respectively, was cloned downstream from the large subunit gene of Synechococcus sp. PCC6301. These coexpression products were detected by utilizing SDS-PAGE and confirmed by immunoblotting. The amount of carboxylase activity from the intact cells revealed that each higher plant small subunit was able to assemble with the Synechococcus large subunit octamer core to form an active heterologous enzyme in E. coli. However, in these heterologous enzymes, the interaction between large subunits and small subunits was very weak, the small subunit readily dissociated from the large subunit octamer core. A detailed kinetic assay was carried out with the partially purified hybrid enzymes. Compared to Synechococcus Rubisco, the activity of rice, tobacco, and wheat hybrid Rubisco decreased to 37, 61, and 37% of the original activity, respectively. These hybrid enzymes showed a greater affinity for CO2 and RuBP than Synechococcus Rubisco. The specificity factor of the three hybrid Rubiscos was 98, 84, and 76%, respectively, of the original. These results indicate for the first time that the small subunit contributes to the stability, catalytic efficiency, and CO2/O2 specificity of Rubisco together, which suggests that small subunits may be fruitful targets for engineering an improved Rubisco. Meanwhile, we found that sorbitol in the culture of induced cells promoted the production of active assembled enzyme and shortened the time to reach maximal expression.
11718545	Of 102 rhizoplane and endophytic bacteria isolated from rice roots and stems in California, 37% significantly (P < or = 0.05) inhibited the growth in vitro of two pathogens, Achlya klebsiana and Pythium spinosum, causing seedling disease of rice. Four endophytic strains were highly effective against seedling disease in growth pouch assays, and these were identified as Pseudomonas fluorescens (S3), Pseudomonas tolaasii (S20), Pseudomonas veronii (S21), and Sphingomonas trueperi (S12) by sequencing of amplified 16S rRNA genes. Strains S12, S20, and S21 contained the nitrogen fixation gene, nifD, but only S12 was able to reduce acetylene in pure culture. The four strains significantly enhanced plant growth in the absence of pathogens, as evidenced by increases in plant height and dry weight of inoculated rice seedlings relative to noninoculated rice. Three bacterial strains (S3, S20, and S21) were evaluated in pot bioassays and reduced disease incidence by 50%-73%. Strain S3 was as effective at suppressing disease at the lowest inoculum density (106 CFU/mL) as at higher density (10(8) CFU/mL or undiluted suspension). This study indicates that selected endophytic bacterial strains have potential for control of seedling disease of rice and for plant growth promotion.
11718894	With the exception of barley and rice, little is known about the existence of hemoglobins (Hbs) in cereals. This work reports the cloning and analysis of hb genes from maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and teosinte (Zea mays ssp. parviglumis). Coding sequences of maize and teosinte hb genes (hbm and hbt, respectively) are highly similar to each other and are interrupted by three introns located at identical positions as other plant hb genes. Sequences of predicted Hbm and Hbt proteins are identical. The hydropathic profile of Hbm and Hbt is highly similar to that of rice Hb1, suggesting that Hbm, Hbt and Hb1 have the same tertiary structure and biochemical properties. Expression analysis showed that low levels of Hb transcripts, but considerable levels of Hb proteins exist in maize embryonic organs. No Hb transcripts and proteins were detected in teosinte embryonic organs. Low levels of Hb proteins, but no Hb transcripts, were detected in maize and teosinte vegetative organs. These observations suggest that the regulation of hb genes is different in maize and teosinte embryonic organs, and that the expression of hb genes is down- or up-regulated in maize and teosinte, respectively, from germination to vegetative growing.
1172410	The corn milling industry has widely accepted the presence of bright greenish-yellow fluorescence under a black light as a presumptive indicator of aflatoxin (a poison produced by the mold Aspergillus flavus). This test was applied to wheat, oats, barley, rice, coconut, white corn, yellow corn, peanuts, sorghum, and soybeans, and evaluated in the laboratory. Our study supported the use of bright greenish-yellow fluorescence as a presumptive test for aflatoxin in wheat, oats, barley, corn, and sorghum.
11724180	To evaluate 3 commercially available selected-protein-source diets as maintenance diets in dogs with pruritus caused by adverse food reactions. Randomized crossover trial. 40 dogs > 6 months of age with pruritus caused by adverse reactions to foods. Diagnosis was confirmed by use of diet elimination and provocation studies. Subsequently, dogs were fed 3 commercial diets for 3 weeks each in a randomized, blinded, crossover trial. Dogs were evaluated for pruritus, vomiting, diarrhea, and flatulence. Pruritus recurred in 52.5% of dogs fed a chicken-rice diet, 47.5% of dogs fed a catfish-rice diet, and 85% of dogs fed a venison-rice diet. Overall 95% of the dogs could be managed successfully with at least 1 of the 3 diets. Results indicated that commercially available limited-allergen diets with selected protein sources may be appropriate for long-term management of pruritus caused by adverse food reactions. Testing of various protein sources is usually required.
11724382	The rice herbicide cafenstrole and its analogs inhibited the incorporation of [1-(14)C]-oleate and (2-(14)C]-malonate into very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs), using Scenedesmus cells and leek microsomes from Allium porrum. Although the precise mode of interaction of cafenstrole at the molecular level is not completely clarified by the present study, it is concluded that cafenstrole acts as a specific inhibitor of the microsomal elongase enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of fatty acids with alkyl chains longer than C18. For a strong VLCFA biosynthesis inhibition an -SO2- linkage of the 1,2,4-triazole-1-carboxamides was required. Furthermore, N,N-dialkyl substitution of the carbamoyl nitrogen and electron-donating groups such as methyl at the benzene ring of 1,2,4-triazole-1-carboxamides produced a strong inhibition of VLCFA formation. A correlation was found between the phytotoxic effect against barnyardgrass (Echinochloa oryzicola) and impaired VLCFA formation.
11725634	Rice gelatinization temperature is an important character contributing to cooking quality. Here the inheritance of gelatinization temperature (GT), which was represented by alkali spreading value (ASV), was reported. Two parents, Balilla (japonica variety) and Nantehao (indica variety), which were significantly different on GT-ASV, were selected to construct a backcross population Balilla/Nantehao//Balilla containing 142 individuals. And ASV was investigated in the population, a continuous distribution with two obvious peaks was observed. It indicated that GT-ASV was controlled by one major gene, also modified by some minor genes. In order to map the major and minor genes and estimate the effects of genes. A total of 119 SSR markers were employed to construct a linkage map; further a genome-wide detection was carried out by interval mapping method. The results showed that 6 QTLs were detected, of which, qASV6-1 located on chromosome 6 was a major gene with 87.6% variance explained, and alleles from parent Nantehao could decrease the value. It shoud be the same locus as the alkali degeneration gene (alk). The other QTLs (qASV2, qASV3, qASV6-2, qASV9, and qASV11) all belong to minor genes, which were located on chromosome 2,3,6,9 and 11, respectively. In two parents, they carried the positive and negative alleles simultaneously. These results will be helpful for rice quality breeding and improvement.
11725635	Various integration events from simple to complex have been found in transgenic elite rice varieties, which were co-transformed with bar and cecropin B gene by particle bombardment after system studies of the structure and expression of the transgene. It was displayed that there were one to seven insertion loci and one to ten copies of transgene in different transformants. No absolute correlation was found between the numbers of transgene copies and the gene expression. Different level expression of transgenes with similar insertion mode was also discovered. The expression cassette integrity and transcription frequency of selectable bar gene were more than non-selectable cecropin B gene, whereas gene silence in plants integrated with intact bar gene was found and higher expression level of cecropin B gene with 0.6 kb fragments degraded in terminator was deduced.
11725636	Zhenshan 97A, a rice male sterile, were applied widely since the release of hybrid rice in 1973 in China, but the genotype of heading time in this sterile line was still unknown. This definitely limited the further use of this sterile line in breeding practice and re-production of hybrid seeds. To solve this problem, we analyzed the segregation pattern of phenotype of heading time in progenies from crosses between Zhenshan 97A and four tester cultivars, Akihikari (e1e1e2e2e3e3 Se-1eSe-1e), Koshihikari (E1E1E2E2e3e3Se-1eSe-1e), Nipponbare (E1E1e2e2e3e3Se-1Se-1) and Hinohikari (E1E1E2E2e3e3Se-1Se-1), whose genotypes of heading time were already known. The results showed that the genotype of heading time in Zhenshan 97A was e1e1e2e2E3E3Se-1Se-1 and it also carried a recessive inhibitor i-Se-1 for phtoperiod-sensitivity. Meanwhile, a major photoperiod-sensitive dominant genes Se-1 and other modified photoperiod-sensitive genes: i-Se-1, E3, Hd3(En-Se-1), Hd5 and Hd6, were identified in Zhenshan 97A by crossing with QTL nearly isogenic lines: NIL (Hd1), NIL (Hd2), NIL(Hd3), NIL(Hd5) and NIL(Hd6).
11725839	This study was initiated to examine if the revision of the food composition tables from the 4th version to the 5th version has induced any substantial changes in nutrient intake estimation, and if so, in which nutrient item and to what extent. For this purpose, 24-hour duplicates of food samples were collected in 1996 to 1998 from 71 girl university students, together with food menus of the day. The nutrients in the duplicates were estimated by use of the 4th and the 5th version food composition tables in parallel, with supplements of other databases. The results of the estimation with the two databases were compared by Student's paired t-test. Compared with the results with the 4th version, the estimation utilizing the 5th version gave 3 to 8% increases in intakes of major nutrients including energy (except for protein), a 20% increase in vitamin A, and decreases in iron (-13%) and NaCl (-3%), whereas there were only small or essentially no changes in other minerals and vitamins. The largest increment in energy through the re-calculation came from the cereals (especially rice), and it was meats for the increment in lipid intake. The increment in vitamin A with the 5th version is primarily due to the re-evaluation of fruits and vegetables. The present observation suggests that care should be practiced in examining secular trends in nutrition when the basis of estimation is shifted from one database of the 4th version of food composition tables to another of the 5th version. Further study of a larger scale is apparently warranted to confirm the conclusions.
11725971	The Ca2+-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) and abscisic acid (ABA) are known to be involved in low-temperature stress response. The focus of this study was to characterize the 45 kDa protein kinase identified in the crude extract of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedling roots in response to cold (5 degrees C) stress. The activity of the 45 kDa protein kinase decreased at low temperature as evident by an in-gel kinase assay using histone III-S as a substrate. Also, the Ca2+-dependent activity of this protein kinase was suppressed by cold in the membrane fractions of the root. A general protein kinase inhibitor and Ca2+ chelator inhibited the activity of the 45 kDa protein kinase, suggesting that it was a plant CDPK. The 45 kDa CDPK identified was found to be independent of photosynthetic tissues such as the leaf and leaf sheath of rice seedlings, supporting a direct sensing mechanism in the roots of rice seedlings to cold stress. The suppressed activity of the 45 kDa CDPK was reverted by supplementing with 5 microM ABA under cold stress. The 45 kDa CDPK activity was stronger in the cold-tolerant variety of the 4 types tested than it was in the cold-sensitive one. These results suggest the involvement of endogenous ABA in regulating the activity of the 45 kDa CDPK in response to cold stress.
11726714	We cloned a cDNA encoding Hordeum vulgare Proline Transporter (HvProT) from salt-stressed barley roots by differential display. HvProT was 2,161 bp long and had an open reading frame encoding 450 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of HvProT was similar to those of proline transporter proteins of rice (65.7%), Arabidopsis (57.7%) and tomato (42.0%). Northern blot analysis showed that the transcript level of HvProT was induced in roots at 30 min after 200 mM NaCl treatment and its peak was observed at 3 h. However, the transcript level was very low in leaves and did not increase by salt stress. The expression level of Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), encoding a key enzyme of proline synthesis, was induced later than HvProT by salt stress. A transport assay using a yeast with mutation in proline uptake revealed that HvProT was a transporter with high affinity for L-proline (K(m) = 25 microM). HvProT was found to be a unique transporter with high affinity for L-proline. Since its transport activity was dependent on the pH gradient, HvProT was suggested to be a H(+)/amino acid symporter. In situ hybridization analysis showed that the HvProT mRNA was strongly expressed in root cap cells under salt stress. HvProT might play an important role in the transport of proline to root tip region urgently upon salt stress.
11729089	Cereals (maize, sorghum, millet, rice) are extremely important crops grown in Africa for human consumption. Of the various insect pests attacking cereal crops in Africa, lepidopteran stem borers are by far the most injurious. All 21 economically important stem borers of cultivated grasses in Africa are indigenous except Chilo partellus, which invaded the continent from India, and C. sacchariphagus, which has recently been found in sugarcane in Mozambique. C. partellus is competitively displacing indigenous stem borers in East and southern Africa. A parasitoid, Cotesia flavipes, was introduced from Pakistan for biological control of C. partellus and caused a 32-55% decrease in stem borer densities. This article is an attempt to summarize the status of knowledge about economically important cereal stem borers in Africa with emphasis on their distribution, pest status and yield losses, diapause, natural enemies, cultural control, host plant resistance, and biological control. Special attention is given to Busseola fusca and C. partellus, the most important pests of maize and grain sorghum.
11730011	We have developed a method to overcome sequencing problems caused by the presence of homopolymer stretches, such as polyA/T, in cDNA libraries. PolyA tails are shortened by cleaving before cDNA cloning with type IIS restriction enzymes, such as GsuI, placed next to the oligo-dT used to prime the polyA tails of mRNAs. We constructed four rice Cap-Trapper-selected, full-length normalized cDNA libraries, of which the average residual polyA tail was 4 bases or shorter in most of the clones analyzed Because of the removal of homopolymeric stretches, libraries prepared with this method can be used for direct sequencing and transcriptional sequencing without the slippage observed for libraries prepared with currently available methods, thus improving sequencing accuracy, operations, and throughput.
11730867	The bioactivity of 25-hydroxybrassinolide, (25S)- and (25R)-26-hydroxybrassinolide, (25S)- and (25R)-25,26-dihydroxybrassinolide, and of (25R)-25,26-epoxybrassinolide was tested in the rice leaf lamina inclination assay. The 25- and (25S)-26-hydroxy derivatives are known metabolites of the naturally-occurring phytohormone brassinolide, whereas the other compounds are novel, but closely related, congeners. When tested alone, all showed either no activity or only weak activity at relatively high doses. When coapplied with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), an auxin that synergizes the effects of brassinosteroids, enhanced bioactivity was observed for each compound. However, even when applied together with IAA, none of the compounds proved more bioactive than brassinolide with or without IAA. We conclude from these results that enzymatic hydroxylation of endogenous brassinolide at C-25 and/or C-26 does not enhance brassinosteroid activity, and so does not comprise an activation pathway in brassinolide biosynthesis. Instead, these hydroxylations result in modest to appreciable metabolic deactivation.
11731491	We have investigated possible collinearity between the genomes of rice and Arabidopsis by comparing 126 annotated and mapped rice BAC sequences (approximately 20 Mb of sequence) with the annotated and complete Arabidopsis genome (approximately 115 Mb). Although we were able to identify several regions in which gene order is preserved, they are relatively small, and are interrupted by noncollinear genes. Computer simulation showed that these microscale collinearities are above the expectation for a random process. On the other hand, the order of exons within homologous genes (<2.5 kb) was preserved, as expected.
11731494	Retrotransposons and retroviruses share similar intracellular life cycles and major encoded proteins, but retrotransposons lack the envelope (env) critical for infectivity. Retrotransposons are ubiquitous and abundant in plants and active retroviruses are known in animals. Although a few env-containing retroelements, gypsy-like Athila, Cyclops, and Calypso and copia-like SIRE-1, have been identified in plants, the general presence and functionality of the domain remains unclear. We show here that env-class elements are present throughout the flowering plants and are widely transcribed. Within the grasses, we show the transcription of the env domain itself for Bagy-2 and related retrotransposons, all members of the Athila group. Furthermore, Bagy-2 transcripts undergo splicing to generate a subgenomic env product as do those of retroviruses. Transcription and the polymorphism of their insertion sites in closely related barley cultivars suggests that at least some are propagationally active. The putative ENV polypeptides of Bagy-2 and rice Rigy-2 contain predicted leucine zipper and transmembrane domains typical of retroviral ENVs. These findings raise the prospect of active retroviral agents among the plants.
11731505	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) will be the first major crop, as well as the first monocot plant species, to be completely sequenced. Integration of DNA sequence-based maps with cytological maps will be essential to fully characterize the rice genome. We have isolated a set of 24 chromosomal arm-specific bacterial artificial chromosomes to facilitate rice chromosome identification. A standardized rice karyotype was constructed using meiotic pachytene chromosomes of O. sativa spp. japonica rice var. Nipponbare. This karyotype is anchored by centromere-specific and chromosomal arm-specific cytological landmarks and is fully integrated with the most saturated rice genetic linkage maps in which Nipponbare was used as one of the mapping parents. An ideogram depicting the distribution of heterochromatin in the rice genome was developed based on the patterns of 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining of the Nipponbare pachytene chromosomes. The majority of the heterochromatin is distributed in the pericentric regions with some rice chromosomes containing a significantly higher proportion of heterochromatin than other chromosomes. We showed that pachytene chromosome-based fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis is the most effective approach to integrate DNA sequences with euchromatic and heterochromatic features.
11731814	To determine the levels of malathion resistance and prevalence of the malathion carboxylesterase mechanism among mosquitoes in Sri Lanka. Bioassays were carried out using WHO-recommended methods on samples of the following Sri Lankan mosquito vectors: Culex quinquefasciatus, C. tritaeniorhynchus, C gelidus, Anopheles culicifacies B, A. subpictus, Aedes aegypti and A. albopictus. FINDINGS Malathion-specific carboxylesterase mechanisms were found in A. culicifaies and A. subpictus, both giving high rates of insecticide metabolism. In contrast, malathion resistance in C. quinquefasciatus and C. tritaeniorhynchus is linked to broad-spectrum resistance to organophosphorus compounds due to elevated levels of esterases that sequester malaoxon, but are unable to metabolize malathion. Resistance among the Anophelesspp. must have occurred as a direct result of antimalarial activities, since malathion use in Sri Lanka is limited to public health treatments. In contrast, resistance among Culex spp. has resulted from large-scale use of the organophosphorus insecticide group as larvicides for filariasis control and on rice paddy, where C tritaeniorhynchus predominantly breeds, for agricultural purposes.
11732155	The question of the origins of the Polynesians has, for over 200 years, been the subject of adventure science. Since Captain Cook's first speculations on these isolated Pacific islanders, their language affiliations have been seen as an essential clue to the solution. The geographic and numeric centre of gravity of the Austronesian language family is in island Southeast Asia, which was therefore originally seen as their dispersal homeland. However, another view has held sway for 15 years, the 'out of Taiwan' model, popularly known as the 'express train to Polynesia'. This model, based on the combined evidence of archaeology and linguistics, proposes a common origin for all Austronesian-speaking populations, in an expansion of rice agriculturalists from south China/Taiwan beginning around 6,000 years ago. However, it is becoming clear that there is, in fact, little supporting evidence in favour of this view. Alternative models suggest that the ancestors of the Polynesians achieved their maritime skills and horticultural Neolithic somewhere between island Southeast Asia and Melanesia, at an earlier date. Recent advances in human genetics now allow for an independent test of these models, lending support to the latter view rather than the former. Although local gene flow occurring between the bio-geographic regions may have been the means for the dramatic cultural spread out to the Pacific, the immediate genetic substrate for the Polynesian expansion came not from Taiwan, but from east of the Wallace line, probably in Wallacea itself.
11732192	Histochemical and ultrastructural studies were carried out on a wild-type strain (Guy11) and a melanin-deficient mutant (buf1) of the rice-blast pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea (= Pyricularia oryzae), in order to investigate the destination of lipid storage reserves during appressorium development. Lipid droplets were abundant in conidia and were mobilised upon germination, accumulating in the appressorial hook which developed at the tip of each germ tube. Following the formation of a septum at the base of the nascent appressorium, one or a few closely appressed central vacuoles became established and were observed to enlarge in the course of appressorium maturation. On unyielding artificial surfaces such as glass or plastic, appressoria matured to completion within 36-48 h, by which time the enlarged vacuole filled most of the inside volume of the appressorium. Light and transmission electron microscopical observations revealed that the lipid droplets entered the vacuole by autophagocytosis and were degraded therein. Histochemical approaches confirmed the vacuole as the key lytic element in maturing appressoria. Endocytosis of a vital dye, Neutral Red, progressed via endosomes which migrated into the vacuole and lysed there, releasing their dye content into the vacuolar lumen. Furthermore, activity of the lysosomal marker enzyme, acid phosphomonoesterase, was strongly localised in the vacuole at all stages of appressorium maturation. It is therefore envisaged that vacuoles are involved in the degradation of lipid storage reserves which may act as sources of energy and/or osmotically active metabolites such as glycerol, which generate the very high turgor pressure known to be crucial for penetration of hard surfaces. On softer surfaces such as onion epidermis, appressoria of M. grisea were able to penetrate before degradation of lipid droplets had been completed.
11732674	Data previously reported in several studies have suggested that phytase improves amino acid digestibility in chicks. It was the objective of the current study to determine if phytase would increase the protein efficiency ratio (PER) values (g weight gain per g protein intake) for several feed ingredients fed to chicks. Six experiments were conducted and ingredients evaluated were casein, soybean meal, canola meal, cottonseed meal, peanut meal, wheat middlings, wheat bran, rice bran, defatted rice bran, meat and bone meal, and corn gluten meal. Casein was evaluated to serve as a phytate-free control ingredient. Each feedstuff was analyzed for CP and included in cornstarch:dextrose diets as the only source of protein to provide 10% dietary protein in Experiments 1 to 5 or 18% dietary protein (soybean meal) in Experiment 6. Dietary Ca and nonphytate P levels were varied among experiments and ranged from 0.95 to 1.5% Ca and 0.35 to 0.675% nonphytate P. The test ingredient diets were fed with 0 or 1,200 units of phytase/kg to New Hampshire x Columbian chicks from 8 to 17 or 20 d of age. The PER values varied greatly among ingredients, ranging from 1.4 for corn gluten meal to 4.2 for canola meal. Phytase addition had no significant effect (P > 0.10) on PER values for any of the ingredients evaluated, except for an increase for casein in one experiment. The results indicated that 1,200 U of phytase/kg did not significantly increase protein utilization of several feed ingredients as assessed by a PER chick growth assay.
11734851	Over 75% of the world marine fisheries catch (over 80 million tonnes per year) is sold on international markets, in contrast to other food commodities (such as rice). At present, only one institution, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) maintains global fisheries statistics. As an intergovernmental organization, however, FAO must generally rely on the statistics provided by member countries, even if it is doubtful that these correspond to reality. Here we show that misreporting by countries with large fisheries, combined with the large and widely fluctuating catch of species such as the Peruvian anchoveta, can cause globally spurious trends. Such trends influence unwise investment decisions by firms in the fishing sector and by banks, and prevent the effective management of international fisheries.
11735441	Candida rugosa lipase was covalently immobilized on rice straw activated with glutaraldehyde using poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) as the stabilizing agent. The effects of PEG molecular weight and enzyme loading were studied according to a full 2(2) factorial design. Higher immobilization yields (>70%) were attained when the lipase loading was 95 units/mg of dry support, independent of PEG molecular weight. All derivatives showed high hydrolytic and synthetic activities. This work provides preliminary results on the use of agricultural residues as a support matrix for immobilizing lipase and on the application of the resulting derivatives to butyl butyrate synthesis as a study model.
11736472	From a spin-resolved photoemission study on the Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8+delta) superconductor, we show experimentally that the first ionization state is of nearly pure singlet character. This is true both above and below the superconducting transition and in the presence of doping and band formation. This provides direct support for the existence and stability of Zhang-Rice singlets in high-temperature superconductors, justifying the ansatz of single-band models. Moreover, we establish this technique as an important probe for a wide range of cuprates and strongly correlated materials.
11741147	Chromosomal location and local chromatin structure are thought to play important roles in the stability of transgene expression. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a cytogenetic technique that allows the localization of specific DNA sequences on chromosomes. It provides an excellent means to analyze the chromosomal environment of integrated transgenes, helping to assess the effect of position on gene expression. FISH analyses have been conducted on nuclear chromosomal DNA at metaphase, interphase, meiotic prophase (pachytene) and on extended chromatin fibers (DNA fiber-FISH) and naked DNA molecules. Despite the small size of rice chromosomes, FISH has been successfully accomplished to detect unique and repetitive DNA sequences. A detailed FISH procedure for the detection of small and single copy transgenes within the rice genome is described and the application of FISH to evaluate chromosomal location and the local chromatin structure of transgenes as parameters that could affect their expression is discussed.
11741149	Chromosome painting and genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) are both effective methods for basic genetic research and practical breeding. These methods were applied even in the typically small chromosomes of rice. This manuscript describes in detail, highly reproducible, complete protocols for chromosome painting and GISH in rice chromosomes. Examples of useful applications of these methods are also presented.
11742886	Our objective was to evaluate whether isocaloric replacement of refined rice with whole grains and other plant products as a form of powder reduces coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors, such as insulin demand and lipid peroxidation in CAD patients. Seventy-six male patients with CAD were randomly assigned to either a group ingesting a whole-grain meal daily or a control group for 16 weeks. In the whole-grain group, serum concentrations of glucose and insulin decreased by 24% and 14%, respectively, without altering body weight and energy intake, whereas daily intakes of fiber and vitamin E increased by 25% and 41%, respectively. Consumption of whole grains and legume powder in CAD patients without diabetes decreased fasting levels of glucose and insulin. The areas under the curve for insulin and glucose during the oral glucose tolerance test were also decreased. CAD patients with diabetes in the whole-grain group also showed reductions in fasting glucose and in the area under the curve for glucose. In the whole-grain group, plasma malondialdehyde and homocysteine and urinary 8-epi-prostaglandin F(2alpha) concentrations decreased by approximately 28%. Also, lipid-corrected concentrations of alpha-carotene, retinol, tocopherols, and lycopene increased by 11% to 40%, and the percentage composition of n-6 fatty acids of serum phospholipid increased by 14% in the whole-grain group. The replacement of refined rice with whole grain and legume powder as a source of carbohydrate in a meal showed significant beneficial effects on glucose, insulin, and homocysteine concentrations and lipid peroxidation in CAD patients. These effects are likely to substantially reduce the risk factors for CAD and diabetes.
11743085
11743099	A new model for grass functional genomics is described based on Brachypodium distachyon, which in the evolution of the Pooideae diverged just prior to the clade of "core pooid" genera that contain the majority of important temperate cereals and forage grasses. Diploid ecotypes of B. distachyon (2n = 10) have five easily distinguishable chromosomes that display high levels of chiasma formation at meiosis. The B. distachyon nuclear genome was indistinguishable in size from that of Arabidopsis, making it the simplest genome described in grasses to date. B. distachyon is a self-fertile, inbreeding annual with a life cycle of less than 4 months. These features, coupled with its small size (approximately 20 cm at maturity), lack of seed-head shatter, and undemanding growth requirements should make it amenable to high-throughput genetics and mutant screens. Immature embryos exhibited a high capacity for plant regeneration via somatic embryogenesis. Regenerated plants display very low levels of albinism and have normal fertility. A simple transformation system has been developed based on microprojectile bombardment of embryogenic callus and hygromycin selection. Selected B. distachyon ecotypes were resistant to all tested cereal-adapted Blumeria graminis species and cereal brown rusts (Puccinia reconditia). In contrast, different ecotypes displayed resistance or disease symptoms following challenge with the rice blast pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea) and wheat/barley yellow stripe rusts (Puccinia striformis). Despite its small stature, B. distachyon has large seeds that should prove useful for studies on grain filling. Such biological characteristics represent important traits for study in temperate cereals.
11743116	A thermally stable lipase (EC 3.1.1.3.) was first identified in rice (Oryza sativa) bran, and the enzyme was purified to homogeneity using octyl-Sepharose chromatography. The enzyme was purified to 7.6-fold with the final specific activity of 0.38 micromol min(-1) mg(-1) at 80 degrees C using [9,10-(3)H]triolein as a substrate. The purified enzyme was found to be a glycoprotein of 9.4 kD. Enzyme showed a maximum activity at 80 degrees C and at pH 11.0. The protein was biologically active and retained most of its secondary structure even at 90 degrees C as judged by the enzymatic assays and far-ultraviolet circular dichroism spectroscopy, respectively. Differential scanning calorimetric studies indicated that the transition temperature was 76 degrees C and enthalpy 1.3 x 10(5) Calorie mol(-1) at this temperature. The purified lipase also exhibited phospholipase A(2) activity. Colocalization of both the hydrolytic activities in reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and isoelectric focusing showed that the dual activity was associated with a single protein. Further, a direct interaction between both the substrates and the purified protein was demonstrated by photoaffinity labeling, using chemically synthesized analogs of triolein and phosphatidylcholine (PC). Apparent K(m) for triolein (6.71 mM) was higher than that for PC (1.02 mM). The enzyme preferentially hydrolyzed the sn-2 position of PC, whereas it apparently exhibited no positional specificity toward triacylglycerol. Diisopropyl fluorophosphate inhibited both lipase and phospholipase activities of the purified enzyme. This enzyme is a new member from plants in the family of lipases capable of hydrolyzing phospholipids.
11743120	The rice plant (Oryza sativa L. cv Oochikara) is known to be a Si accumulator, but the mechanism responsible for the high uptake of Si by the roots is not well understood. We investigated the role of root hairs and lateral roots in the Si uptake using two mutants of rice, one defective in the formation of root hairs (RH2) and another in that of lateral roots (RM109). Uptake experiments with nutrient solution during both a short term (up to 12 h) and relatively long term (26 d) showed that there was no significant difference in Si uptake between RH2 and the wild type (WT), whereas the Si uptake of RM109 was much less than that of WT. The number of silica bodies formed on the third leaf in RH2 was similar to that in WT, but the number of silica bodies in RM109 was only 40% of that in WT, when grown in soil amended with Si under flooded conditions. There was also no difference in the shoot Si concentration between WT and RH2 when grown in soil under upland conditions. Using a multi-compartment transport box, the Si uptake at the root tip (0-1 cm, without lateral roots and root hairs) was found to be similar in WT, RH2, and RM109. However, the Si uptake in the mature zone (1-4 cm from root tip) was significantly lower in RM109 than in WT, whereas no difference was found in Si uptake between WT and RH2. All these results clearly indicate that lateral roots contribute to the Si uptake in rice plant, whereas root hairs do not. Analysis of F(2) populations between RM109 and WT showed that Si uptake was correlated with the presence of lateral roots and that the gene controlling formation of lateral roots and Si uptake is a dominant gene.
11743751	Methiocarb was extracted from surface water samples collected at experimental rice field sites in Louisiana and Texas. The sampling system consisted of a single-stage 90-mm Empore extraction disk unit equipped with a battery-powered vacuum pump. After extraction, the C-18 extraction disks were stored in an inert atmosphere at -10 degrees C and shipped overnight to the laboratory. The disks were extracted with methanol and the extracts analyzed by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with a methanol/water mobile phase. Methiocarb was detected by ultraviolet absorption at 223 nm and quantified with the use of calibration standards. Recoveries from control surface water samples fortified at 5.0, 10, 50, and 100 ng/mL methiocarb averaged 92 +/- 7%. A method limit of detection for methiocarb in rice field surface water was estimated to be 0.23 ng/mL at 223 nm.
11744800	Our previous study with prevalent cases suggested that some genetic, immunological and lifestyle-related factors increased the risk of immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN). To confirm this hypothesis, we conducted another case-control study. The study included 116 incident cases and 276 sex-, age- and residence-matched controls in central Japan. Information on family and individual history and on lifestyle was collected using a self-administered questionnaire. The strength of association between IgAN and a potential risk factor was assessed by calculating an odds ratio. A family history of chronic glomerulonephritis, susceptibility to the common cold, episodes of tonsillitis in the preceding year, preference for salty foods and a high intake of rice and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) were associated with an increased risk of IgAN. Coffee consumption and dietary calcium intake were somewhat negatively related to the risk. A significance of alcohol drinking, use of vitamin supplements, consumption of raw eggs and intake of nutrients other than n-6 PUFA and calcium, though previously suggested, was not shown in the present study. Our findings imply that some genetic factors, immune response to infections in the upper respiratory tract and nutritional imbalance would promote the development of IgAN.
11746085	Quantifying plant gene expression by flow cytometry (FCM) would allow multidimensional cell-parameter analysis on a per-cell basis, thereby providing insight into the cellular mechanisms of plant gene regulation. Here we sought to establish quantitation by FCM of plant hormone (abscisic acid, ABA)-inducible green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression and to compare the method directly with traditional reporter enzyme assays. GFP, beta-glucuronidase, and luciferase reporter genes driven by ABA-inducible or constitutive promoter constructs were expressed in transiently cotransformed rice protoplasts and reporter activities quantified by FCM (for GFP) or traditional enzyme assays. Treatments included cotransformations with specific ABA signaling effector cDNA constructs (encoding VIVIPAROUS-1, an ABA transcription factor, and ABA-INSENSITIVE1-1, a dominant-negative protein phosphatase regulator) and the ABA agonist lanthanum chloride. Dual-color FCM was also performed on GFP-expressing cells immunodecorated with an mAb recognizing a rice cell surface epitope. Quantitative analysis of ABA-inducible gene expression by FCM using GFP as reporter gave comparable results to traditional reporter enzyme assays, although the signal-to-noise ratio was less for FCM, which can be a limitation of the method at low promoter strengths. Multiparameter-correlated analysis of ABA-inducible GFP expression with a plasma membrane marker showed no apparent correlation between ABA sensitivity, marked by GFP, and presence of a cell surface arabinogalactan glycoprotein. Quantitative FCM of GFP-expressing plant cells is a rapid, robust, reproducible, and value-added method relative to traditional enzymatic reporter gene assays.
11748868	The aim of the study was to assess the vertical profile of the major airborne pollen and spore concentration in the lower heights (up to six meters) and to check their allergenic potential causing respiratory allergy in agricultural workers. The study was conducted using rotorod samplers mounted at different heights at weekly intervals for two consecutive years (November 1997-October 1999). The major pollen grains and fungal spores (from mass culture) were collected in bulk and studied by skin-prick tests to detect allergenicity. Of the recorded pollen, 10 major and perennial types (e.g., Poaceae, Cheno-Amaranthaceae, Cyperaceae, Areca, etc.) were considered for comparative analyses. The tree pollen count showed more or less good correlation with increasing heights, whereas herb/shrub members are dominant at lower heights during all the three seasons (winter, summer and rains). The 10 major and perennial fungal spore types included Aspergilli group, Cladosporium, Nigrospora, etc. The smaller spores were dominant at greater heights and larger spores and conidia were more prevalent at lower levels. The total spore count was higher just after the rainy season during winter. In terms of allergenicity, Saccharum officinarum (sugar cane) of Poaceae, showed highest reactivity (70.58%) in skin test carried out in 189 adult agricultural field workers with respiratory disorders living inside the study area. Among fungal spores, Aspergillus japonicus was the strongest allergen, evoking 74.07% positive reactions. Drechslera oryzae, the pathogen causing brown spot of rice was also found to be a potent allergen.
11752265	An extensive effort of the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP) has resulted in rapid accumulation of genome sequence, and >137 Mb has already been made available to the public domain as of August 2001. This requires a high-throughput annotation scheme to extract biologically useful and timely information from the sequence data on a regular basis. A new automated annotation system and database called Rice Genome Automated Annotation System (RiceGAAS) has been developed to execute a reliable and up-to-date analysis of the genome sequence as well as to store and retrieve the results of annotation. The system has the following functional features: (i) collection of rice genome sequences from GenBank; (ii) execution of gene prediction and homology search programs; (iii) integration of results from various analyses and automatic interpretation of coding regions; (iv) re-execution of analysis, integration and automatic interpretation with the latest entries in reference databases; (v) integrated visualization of the stored data using web-based graphical view. RiceGAAS also has a data submission mechanism that allows public users to perform fully automated annotation of their own sequences. The system can be accessed at http://RiceGAAS.dna.affrc.go.jp/.
11752266	Gramene (http://www.gramene.org) is a comparative genome mapping database for grasses and a community resource for rice. Rice, in addition to being an economically important crop, is also a model monocot for understanding other agronomically important grass genomes. Gramene replaces the existing AceDB database 'RiceGenes' with a relational database based on Oracle. Gramene provides curated and integrative information about maps, sequence, genes, genetic markers, mutants, QTLs, controlled vocabularies and publications. Its aims are to use the rice genetic, physical and sequence maps as fundamental organizing units, to provide a common denominator for moving from one crop grass to another and is to serve as a portal for interconnecting with other web-based crop grass resources. This paper describes the initial steps we have taken towards realizing these goals.
11752272	We have created a federated database for genome studies of Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, by integrating end sequence data from BAC clones, genetic marker data and BAC contig assembly data. A library of 9216 BAC clones providing >25-fold coverage of the entire genome was end sequenced and fingerprinted by HindIII digestion. The Image/FPC software package was then used to generate an assembly of 188 contigs covering >95% of the genome. The database contains the results of this assembly integrated with hybridization data of genetic markers to the BAC library. AceDB was used for the core database engine and a MySQL relational database, populated with numerical representations of BAC clones within FPC contigs, was used to create appropriately scaled images. The database is being used to facilitate sequencing efforts. The database also allows researchers mapping known genes or other sequences of interest, rapid and easy access to the fundamental organization of the M.grisea genome. This database, MagnaportheDB, can be accessed on the web at http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/fungal_genomics/mgdatabase/int.htm.
11753162	The aims of this study were to compare the absorption efficiency of zinc from rice cereal and meat, with and without human milk, in 7-month-old breast-fed infants and to compare the size of exchangeable zinc pools in the infants according to the assigned complementary food. Fractional absorption of zinc was measured in male infants using extrinsic labeling with a stable isotope of zinc in a test meal of either pureed beef (n = 9) or iron-fortified infant rice cereal (n = 9). The effect on fractional absorption of the addition of human milk to each complementary food was measured in each infant with a second oral zinc isotope. Fractional absorption was measured using fecal monitoring of isotope excretion, and exchangeable zinc pool size was calculated from isotopic enrichment in urine. Fractional absorption of zinc did not statistically differ between the beef (0.41 +/- 0.11) and cereal (0.36 +/- 0.05) test meals, although the trend showed that beef had higher fractional absorption than cereal. The higher intake of zinc from the beef versus cereal test meal resulted in a 16-fold greater amount of absorbed zinc (P = 0.0002). The addition of human milk caused significant decreases in fractional absorption of zinc (0.07 +/- 0.02, P = 0.01) and absorbed zinc (0.04 +/- 0.01 mg, P < 0.0001). The size of the exchangeable zinc pool did not differ according to group but was strongly correlated with mean daily zinc intake (r = 0.72, P = 0.003). These results confirm that meat as a complementary food for breast-fed infants can provide a rich source of dietary zinc that is well absorbed. The significant positive correlation between zinc intake and exchangeable zinc pool size suggests that increasing zinc intake positively affects metabolically available zinc.
11754619	The aleurone layer of Oryza sativa cv. Heugjinmi yielded a new quinolone alkaloid, 4-carbomethoxy-6-hydroxy-2-quinolone (1), showing moderate antioxidative activity in a 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl free-radical scavenging assay. Physical and spectroscopic evidence has determined the structure of the compound.
11756283	In the rainfed lowlands, rice (Oryza sativa L.) develops roots under anaerobic soil conditions with ponded water, prior to exposure to aerobic soil conditions and water stress. Constitutive root system development in anaerobic soil conditions has been reported to have a positive effect on subsequent expression of adaptive root traits and water extraction during water stress. We examined effects of phenotyping environment on identification of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for constitutive root morphology traits using 220 doubled-haploid lines (DHLs) from the cross of 'CT9993-5-10-1-M' (CT9993; japonica, upland adapted) x 'IR62266-42-6-2' (IR62266; indica, lowland adapted) in four greenhouse experiments. Broad sense heritability (h(2)) was 75, 60, and 64% on average for shoot biomass, deep root morphology, and root thickness traits, respectively. Quantitative trait loci analysis identified 18 genomic regions associated with deep root morphology traits, but only three were identified consistently across experiments. Three out of a total of eight QTLs for root thickness traits were found in more than one experiment. The maximum genetic effects caused by a single QTL were increments of 0.05 g of deep root mass below a 30-cm soil depth, 0.9% of deep root ratio, 1.6 cm of rooting depth, and 0.09 cm of root thickness, with phenotypic variation explained by a single QTL ranging from 6.8 to 51.8%. The results demonstrate the importance of phenotyping environment and suggest prospects for selection of QTLs for deep root morphology, root thickness, and vigorous seedling growth under anaerobic conditions to improve the constitutive root system of rainfed lowland rice. There was some consistency in QTL regions identified, despite the presence of QTL x environment interactions.
11757367	Short photoperiod-low temperature induced male sterile rice is a new germplasm, whose fertility alteration characteristic is contrary to that of long photoperiod and high temperature induced male sterile rice. Compared with that of Yid1s sowed under natural conditions by stages, the fertility alteration of Yid1s was observed under simulated short photoperiod treatment. The results showed that the photoperiod-sensitive stage of Yid1s occurred from differentiation of rachis primordia (phase I) to secondary rachis-branch and spikelet primordia (phase III). The panicles induced by appropriate short daylight treatment at photoperiod-sensitive stage tended to be completely sterile under normal temperature, but the sterile effect was weakened under high temperature. The pollen fertility of Yid1s was reduced under high or low temperature. The temperature-sensitive stages of Yid1s based on the analysis of the effects of high and low temperature on fertility were basically identical, i.e., from pollen mother cell formation (phase V) to single nucleus (phase VII).
11757368	A field experiment with rice showed that P fertilizer application increased the concentrations of resin P in soil and total P in soil surface water, and both of them declined subsequently over time. Compared with applying mineral P fertilizer only, the integrated application of mineral-P and manure resulted in a higher resin P level within 20 days after P application. The total P concentration in soil surface water in the treatment of integrated application of mineral-P and manure was 3.4 times higher than that in the treatment of mineral-P fertilizer application only after 7 days of P application, and also, was 2.8 times higher than that in the treatment where P application rate was doubled. The potential of Ploss from surface water in the treatment of integrated application with manure was more than that in the treatment of applying-P fertilizer only. The effect of applied P sorts on P concentration in soil surface water could be ignored after 33 days of P application. Two drainages were conducted for rice growth, which caused the net P loss loading and its apparent P loss ratio in range of -0.038-0.076 kg.m-2 and 0.034-0.100%, respectively. To minimize P loss from rice production area, field drainage should be avoided in the initial week of P-fertilizer application or field harrowing.
11757373	Brown planthopper(BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, is a major pest of rice. Its spatial distribution of different generations in Guangdong Province was studied by using variograms. The results showed that this population distributed in a clump pattern in rice fields during the 1st rice season. 3 generations of this population had different spatial structures, with the clump range of 400 km, 200 km and 205 km respectively in the 1st rice season. The simulation distribution maps of BPH, which was interpolated by Ordinary Kriging, showed that the density of BPH populations in west Guangdong province were higher than that in the east. The effect of sampling size on the spatial structure of BPH was not significant.
11758381	Field experiments were conducted in double-cropping rice field in South China during 1998-1999 to study the effect of different tillage methods on rice growth and soil ecology. The results showed that with rice scattering planting, no-tillage method caused a reduction of rice tillering, effective panicle, and filled grains of rice. Grain yield under no-tillage was 13.40% lower than that under conventional tillage, and the economic benefits decreased by 10.9%. Soil analysis showed that in no-tillage fields, soil bulk density and hardness were increased, soil porosity and available P and K were decreased, the amount of actinomyces and fungi was reduced, while that of soil bacteria was increased, and the enzyme activity was promoted. Minimum tillage and conventional tillage had similar soil physical and chemical properties, soil microbial quantity and enzyme activity. Minimum tillage could produce a 2.1% higher grain yield than conventional tillage, and increase the economic benefits by 11.0%.
11758382	Solution culture experiments with Zn-inefficient cultivar (IR26) and the Zn-efficient cultivar (IR8192-31-2) were conducted to study the effect of HCO3- on the root growth and nutrient absorption of different rice cultivars. The results showed that HCO3- strongly inhibited the root growth of Zn-inefficient cultivar especially at low Zn concentration. In contrast, that of Zn-efficient cultivar was slightly stimulated by HCO3- at low Zn concentration. HCO3- not only inhibited Zn absorption of Zn-inefficient cultivar, but also inhibited its absorption of Fe, Mn, Cu, implying that there was no specific inhibition of HCO3- on Zn absorption. These results demonstrated that the inhibition of root growth by HCO3- was likely to be the initial action of HCO3- in inducing Zn deficiency in lowland rice. With treatment of bicarbonate, Zn concentrations in upper and lower leaves of the Zn-efficient cultivar and their ratios were higher than those of the Zn-inefficient cultivar. The results showed that the Zn-efficient cultivar could transport more zinc from lower leaves to upper leaves, which might be-one of mechanisms that the Zn-efficient cultivar adapted to zinc deficiency in calcareous soil.
11758397	The interaction between organic acids (citric and oxalic acids) and heavy metals was examined in this paper. Equilibrium dialysis showed that the extent organic acids bound metals depended on the metal involved, and their binding properties affected the adsorption of Pb and Cd by soil, which was increased in the presence of oxalic acid, and decreased in the presence of citric acid. The effect of citric acid on the behavior and toxicity of Pb and Cd to plants was also studied. The presence of citric acid could reduce the toxicity of Pb, and inhibit the uptake of Cd in shoots and roots. However, there was no significant effect on the apparent toxicity of Cd. The interaction between Pb and Cd was found to be complicated. The Pb content in rice was higher in the presence of Cd, while the content of Cd is lower in the presence of Pb.
11758421	The effects of rare earth elements(REEs) on the relative seedling ratio of three crops(rice, rape and soybean) in three soil(red soil, yellow fluvo-aquic soil and yellow cinnamon soil) were studied according to OECD method, and the LC50 were obtained. Toxicity effect of REEs on rice was minimum among the crops tested. The toxicity on crops in yellow cinnamon soil was lower, whereas on soybean in yellow fluvo-aquic soil and on rape in red earth were higher.
11758423	The study of vegetation bidirectional reflectance is useful for remote sensing data interpretation. Vegetation canopies information such as leaf area index, mean leaf inclination, mean plant height, and coverage, can be inverted from vegetation bidirectional reflectance. This paper discussed the dynamics of vegetation canopies reflectance with vegetation canopy structures by measuring rice canopy structure and bidirectional reflectance at 26, 35, 41, 49, 62, 67 and 86 days after transplanting. It is concluded that the sensitivity of vegetation canopies to directional reflectance variations varied with canopy structures, and hence, through bidirectional reflectance, more information about canopy structure can be know.
11758424	Experiment on rice-fish symbiosis in north China showed that the rice production in rice-fish field was a bit higher than control, and the output-input ratio of energy, utilization efficiency of solar energy and soil organic matter content increased 0.08, 0.1 and 0.24%, respectively. The banded sclerotic blight incidence decreased 3.8% and the net economic income increased 900 RMB yuan per hectare. All the resul;ts showed that rice-fish symbiotic system had a good symbiotic effect.
11758726	Genetic variation between 28 Indian populations of the rice pest, Scirpophaga incertulas was evaluated using inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSR)-PCR assay. Nine SSR primers gave rise to 79 amplification products of which 67 were polymorphic. A dendrogram constructed from this data indicates that there is no geographical bias to the clustering and that gene flow between populations appears to be relatively unrestricted, substantiating our earlier conclusion based on the RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) data. The dendrograms obtained using each of these marker systems were poorly correlated with each other as determined by Mantel's test for matrix correlation. Estimates of expected heterozygosity and marker index for each of these marker systems suggests that both these marker systems are equally efficient in determining polymorphisms. Matrix correlation analyses suggest that reliable estimates of genetic variation among the S. incertulas pest populations can be obtained by using RAPDs alone or in combination with ISSRs, but ISSRs alone cannot be used for this purpose.
11758925	The anti-stress and anti-fatigue effects on rats and mice of a hot water extract of rice bran fermented with Saccharomyces cerevisae IFO 2346 were investigated. Oral administration (1 g/kg/day) of the hot water extract of fermented rice bran (FRB) inhibited major changes in the weight of the adrenal, thymus, spleen and thyroid, showing an anti-stress effect. The hot water extract of FRB also inhibited increases in the GPT and LDH activity, cholesterol and glucose in the serum. The administration (1 g/kg/day) for 2 weeks significantly prolonged the swimming time, resulting in an increase in the anti-fatigue effect. It is considered from these results that FRB had anti-stress and anti-fatigue effects.
11759839	The Aux/IAA class of genes are rapidly induced by exogenous auxins and have been characterized extensively from many dicot species like Arabidopsis, Glycine max and Pisum sativum. We report here the isolation and characterization of rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. Indica) OsIAA1 cDNA as a monocot member of the Aux/IAA gene family. The predicted amino acid sequence of OsIAA1 corresponds to a protein of ca. 26 kDa, which harbors all four characteristic domains known to be conserved in Aux/IAA proteins. The conservation of these Aux/IAA genes indicates that auxins have essentially a similar mode of action in monocots and dicots. Northern blot analysis revealed that the OsIAA1 transcript levels decrease in the excised coleoptile segments on auxin starvation, and the level is restored when auxin is supplemented; the increase in OsIAA1 transcript level was apparent within 15 to 30 min of auxin application. Auxin-induced OsIAA1 expression appears to be correlated with the elongation of excised coleoptile segments. In light-grown rice seedlings, OsIAA1 is preferentially expressed in roots and basal segment of the seedling, whereas in the etiolated rice seedlings, the OsIAA1 transcripts are most abundant in the coleoptile. A comparative analysis in light- and dark-grown seedling tissues indicates that the OsIAA1 transcript levels decrease on illumination.
11760771	A one-week in situ intercomparison campaign was completed on the Rice University campus for measuring HCHO using three different techniques, including a novel optical sensor based on difference frequency generation (DFG) operating at room temperature. Two chemical derivatization methods, 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) and o-(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorobenzyl) hydroxylamine (PFBHA), were deployed during the daylight hours for three- to four-hour time-integrated samples. A real-time optical sensor based on laser absorption spectroscopy was operated simultaneously, including nighttime hours. This tunable spectroscopic source based on difference frequency mixing of two fiber-amplified diode lasers in periodically poled LiNb03 (PPLN) was operated at 3.5315 micrometers (2831.64 cm 1) to access a strong HCHO ro-vibrational transition free of interferences from other species. The results showed a bias of -1.7 and -1.2 ppbv and a gross error of 2.6 and 1.5 ppbv for DNPH and PFBHA measurements, respectively, compared with DFG measurements. These results validate the DFG sensor for time-resolved measurements of HCHO in urban areas.
11760935	Three strains of obligately anaerobic bacteria were isolated from rice paddy soil microcosms. Comparative analysis of the 16S rRNA genes showed that these novel isolates have identical gene sequences and are members of the division 'Verrucomicrobia'. The novel strains are phenotypically and phylogenetically distinct from species described previously. One strain, PB90-1T, was characterized in more detail. The cells are cocci and are motile by means of a flagellum. Catalase and oxidase activities are absent. Growth-supporting substrates include mono-, di- and polysaccharides, while alcohols, amino acids and organic acids do not support growth. Propionate and acetate are the major end-products of fermentation. Nitrate is reduced to nitrite, but other external electron acceptors are not utilized. The G+C content of the genomic DNA is 74 mol%. This strain represents a taxon that has not yet been formally recognized, for which the name Opitutus terrae gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is PB90-1T (= DSM 11246T).
11761144	Forty-five samples from 1988-1995 of naturally contaminated grain, barley, wheat and oats, three samples of mixed feed, and 16 samples of grain artificially inoculated with Fusarium culmorum during the flowering stage were analysed for deoxynivalenol (DON), 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-acetyl-DON), culmorin and hydroxy-culmorins. These compounds are secondary metabolites produced by the fungal species F. culmorum and F. graminearum. Acetonitrile-water extract of the samples was purified on a Mycosep #225 column, derivetized using penta-fluoropropionic anhydride (PFPA) and analysed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The amount of each of culmorin, 5-, 12-, 14 and 15-hydroxy-culmorin and one unknown hydroxy-culmorin were determined relative to the amount of DON plus 3-acetyl DON for each sample. The ratio between the total amount of culmorin compounds and the DON compounds ranged from 0.14 to 1.07 in the samples. This study shows that there is a strong correlation between the amount of DON present in the grain and the amount of culmorin and hydroxy-culmorins present. The ratio of each of the culmorin compounds relative to the amount of DON compounds were in the same range in the grain artificially inoculated by F. culmorum as found in an earlier study for F. culmorum strains cultivated on rice, while the hydroxy-culmorin profile in the naturally contaminated grain was more similar to what was found for the F. graminearum cultures in the same study. These results indicate that F. graminearum may be a relatively important source for DON in grain also in relatively cold areas.
11761327	Phototropin is the designation originally assigned to a recently characterized chromoprotein that serves as a photoreceptor for phototropism. Phototropin is a light-activated autophosphorylating serine/threonine kinase that binds two flavin mononucleotide (FMN) molecules that function as blue light-absorbing chromophores. Each FMN molecule is bound in a rigid binding pocket within specialized PAS (PER-ARNT-SIM superfamily) domains, known as LOV (light, oxygen, or voltage) domains. This article reviews the detailed photobiological and biochemical characterization of the light-activated phosphorylation reaction of phototropin and follows the sequence of events leading to the cloning, sequencing, and characterization of the gene and the subsequent biochemical characterization of its encoded protein. It then considers recent biochemical and photochemical evidence that light activation of phototropin involves the formation of a cysteinyl adduct at the C(4a) position of the FMN chromophores. Adduct formation causes a major conformational change in the chromophores and a possible conformational change in the protein moiety as well. The review concludes with a brief discussion of the evidence for a second phototropin-like protein in Arabidopsis and rice. Possible roles for this photoreceptor are discussed.
11762382	In the Xinjiang province of western China, conventional methods of iodine (I) supplementation (i.e, goiter pills and iodinated salt) used to mitigate I deficiencies were ineffectual. However, the recent addition of KIO3 to irrigation waters has proven effective. This study was conducted to determine the effects of I form and concentration on rice (Oryza sativa L.) growth, I partitioning within the plant, and ultimately to assist in establishing guidelines for incorporating I into the human food chain. We compared IO3- vs. I- in order to determine how these chemical species differ in their biological effects. Rice was grown in 48 L aerated tubs containing nutrient solution and IO3- or I- at 0, 1, 10, or 100 micromoles concentrations (approximately 0, 0.1, 1, and 10 mg kg-1 I). The IO3- at 1 and 10 micromoles had no effect on biomass yields, and the 100 micromole treatment had a small negative effect. The I- at 10 and 100 micromoles was detrimental to biomass yields. The IO3- treatments had more I partitioning to the roots (56%) on average than did the I- treatments (36%), suggesting differences in uptake or translocation between I forms. The data support the theory that IO3- is electrochemically or biologically reduced to I- prior to plant uptake. None of the treatments provided sufficient I in the seed to meet human dietary requirements. The I concentration found in straw at 100 micromoles IO3- was several times greater than seed, and could provide an indirect source of dietary I via livestock feeding on the straw.
11762742	Individuals with celiac disease generally are advised to follow a lifelong gluten-free diet and avoid consumption of the prolamins gliadin (wheat), secalin (rye), and hordein (barley). Although the designation of the diet as glutenfree may imply that the diet contains zero gluten, this is not necessarily true. In some countries (eg, United States, Canada), the gluten-free diet is completely devoid of gluten and is based on foods such as rice and corn that are naturally gluten free. In others (eg, Scandinavia, United Kingdom), the gluten-free diet may include foods such as wheat starch that have been rendered gluten free but nonetheless contain small amounts of toxic prolamins. The discrepancy in the use of foods rendered gluten free exists because the amount of toxic prolamins that individuals with celiac disease may consume without damaging the mucosa of the small intestine is unknown. Minimal research has been conducted on the toxicity of foods rendered gluten free, and there are no definitive data about whether the small amount of prolamin found in these products is safe to consume. Nonetheless, the Codex Alimentarius Standard for gluten-free foods allows a certain amount of prolamin in foods designated gluten free, and these products have been used in many countries for several decades. Well-designed, scientifically sound studies are needed to help determine the amount of toxic prolamins, if any, that may be safely consumed by individuals with celiac disease. Until this research is conducted, dietitians in the United States should continue to advise their patients against the use of wheat starch and other foods rendered gluten free.
11763104	Potted rice plants were exposed to atmospheric HTO in a box outdoors for 1 h at 9 different times from booting to yellow-ripe stages. It is indicated that the leaf TFWT concentration may reach equilibrium within 1 h in clear weather. The plant TFWT concentration decreased at a rapid rate for the first several hours and at a much slower rate thereafter. The decrease till harvest was by factors of 600-95,000 depending on the plant parts and exposure times. The time course of the ear OBT concentration was characterized by the exposure time. After exposure at the booting to heading stages, the leaf OBT concentration decreased rapidly for the first several hours and then very slowly. The plant OBT concentration was initially about 2 orders of magnitude lower, but at harvest an order of magnitude higher, than the TFWT concentration. The OBT concentration in hulled seeds at harvest varied with exposure times by a factor of 70, being highest in the exposure performed at the earlier stage of rapid grain growth. Also in this exposure, the plant total OBT was greatest due to the seed OBT.
11763131	A purified preparation of antifungal protein (AFP) from Aspergillus giganteus exhibited potent antifungal activity against the phytopathogenic fungi Magnaporthe grisea and Fusarium moniliforme, as well as the oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans. Under conditions of total inhibition of fungal growth, no toxicity of AFP toward rice protoplasts was observed. Additionally, application of AFP on rice plants completely inhibited M. grisea growth. These results are discussed in relation to the potential of the afp gene to enhance crop protection against fungal pathogens in transgenic plants.
11763133	Three exopolysaccharide (EPS)- and virulence-deficient mutants of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight of rice, were isolated by Tn5 mutagenesis. These insertions are not located within the gum gene cluster. A 40-kb cosmid clone that restored EPS production and virulence to all three mutants was isolated, and the three transposon insertions were localized to contiguous 4.3- and 3.5-kb EcoRI fragments that are included in this clone. Sequence data indicate that two of the transposon insertions are in genes that encode a putative sugar nucleotide epimerase and a putative glycosyl transferase, respectively; the third insertion is located between the glycosyl transferase gene and a novel open reading frame (ORF). A 5.5-kb genomic region in which these three ORFs are located has a G+C content of 5-1.7%, quite different from the G+C content of approximately 65.0% that is typical of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Homologues of this locus have not yet been reported in any other xanthomonad.
11763134	Expressed sequence tag (EST) analysis was applied to identify rice genes involved in defense responses against infection by the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and fungal genes involved in growth within the host during a compatible interaction. A total of 511 clones was sequenced from a cDNA library constructed from rice leaves (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare) infected with M. grisea strain 70-15 to generate 296 nonredundant ESTs. The sequences of 293 clones (57.3%) significantly matched National Center for Biotechnology Information database entries; 221 showed homologies with previously identified plant genes and 72 with fungal genes. Among the genes with assigned functions, 32.8% were associated with metabolism, 29.4% with cell/organism defense or pathogenicity, and 18.4% with gene/protein expression. cDNAs encoding a type I metallothionein (MTs-1) of rice and a homolog of glucose-repressible gene 1 (GRG1) of Neurospora crassa were the most abundant representatives of plant and fungal genes, comprising 2.9 and 1.6% of the total clones, respectively. The expression patterns of 10 ESTs, five each from rice and M. grisea, were analyzed. Five defense-related genes in rice, including four pathogenesis-related genes and MTs-1, were highly expressed during M. grisea infection. Expression of five stress-inducible or pathogenicity-related genes of the fungus, including two hydrophobin genes, was also induced during growth within the host. Further characterization of the genes represented in this study would be an aid in unraveling the mechanisms of pathogenicity of M. grisea and the defense responses of rice.
11764264	An organism is thought to be in a dynamic state of homeostasis when each physiological and behavioral system reaches a delicate balance within the framework of other regulatory processes. Many biological systems target specific set-point variables and generate circadian patterns. In this article, we focus on specific measurements representative of two systems, namely deep-body temperature and activity counts. We examine data collected every 30 minutes in mice, assume there are underlying circadian patterns, and extend the approach presented in Brumback and Rice (1998, Journal of the American Statistical Association 93, 961-976) in order to obtain estimates in the presence of correlated data. We then assess homeostasis using these estimates and their statistical properties.
11764889	The relationship between viable mould count, ergosterol content and ochratoxin A (OA) formation was studied at different inoculum concentrations of Aspergillus ochraceus NRRL 3174 and Penicillium verrucosum NRRL 3260 grown on sterile long-grain enriched white rice as the substrate. Ergosterol was determined by extraction, saponification and quantification using high performance thin layer chromatography (HPTLC) with UV detection. Ergosterol and ochratoxin A were detected after 3 days of incubation and reached their maximum at 7-10 days of incubation. After that, a decline in the concentrations in both ergosterol and ochratoxin was observed. Ergosterol measurement by HPTLC appeared to be a useful method to detect fungal activity, which corresponded to ochratoxin production. Thus, the ergosterol assay may have a use as an early indicator of potential mycotoxin production.
11766563	The study showed that Lycosid (wolf spider) mainly distributed in the basal part of rice plants, not as wide as we know in past. Tetragnathid did not limited in the upper part of plants, but might translate to middle or lower part when affected by insecticide. The relationship between the vertical distributions of top and basal species was not significant. Besides the amount of natural enemies, the spatial distribution characteristics of natural enemies and brownplanthopper, and the proportion of brownplanthopper to total preys of natural enemies were the factors affecting the role of natural enemies on the population dynamics of brownplanthopper in rice fields. A model to evaluate the effect of natural enemies to brownplanthopper was put forward, which included the message of quantitative dynamics, spatial distribution and feeding characteristics of natural enemies, brownplanthopper and neutral insects.
11766595	The models of genetic effects and genotype x environment interaction for Additive-Dominant-Additive x Additive epistasis were used to analyze the panicle traits of intersubspecific crosses of rice (Oryza sativa.) in different environments. It was found that significant additive, dominant and additive x additive epistatic effects and genotype x environment (GE) interaction were observed in main panicle length, spikelet density, primary branches, total lengths of primary and secondary branches, but the numbers of main panicle and secondary branches showed no significant additive x environment (AE) interaction and dominant x environment (DE) interaction. The seven traits studied were mainly controlled by dominant effects, but branches traits were more obviously affected by DE interaction. Heritabilities analysis showed that the general heritability in broad sense (HG2) was much larger than other heritabilities. To certain extent, the interaction heritabilities showed their effects in seven panicle traits tested. Heterotic prediction indicated a positive heterosis in all panicle traits except the numbers of primary and secondary branches. GE only influenced the expression extents of heterosis, but was not able to change their directions. According to the predicated genetic effects, IR66158-37, IR65600-85, Minhui63 and R669 were better than other parents in the tactics of breeding for improving panicle traits, because the progenies from these crosses always showed that panicle traits were slightly affected by environment.
11767156	For enforcement of the recently introduced labeling threshold for genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food ingredients, quantitative detection methods such as quantitative competitive (QC-PCR) and real-time PCR are applied by official food control laboratories. The experiences of 3 European food control laboratories in validating such methods were compared to describe realistic performance characteristics of quantitative PCR detection methods. The limit of quantitation (LOQ) of GMO-specific, real-time PCR was experimentally determined to reach 30-50 target molecules, which is close to theoretical prediction. Starting PCR with 200 ng genomic plant DNA, the LOQ depends primarily on the genome size of the target plant and ranges from 0.02% for rice to 0.7% for wheat. The precision of quantitative PCR detection methods, expressed as relative standard deviation (RSD), varied from 10 to 30%. Using Bt176 corn containing test samples and applying Bt176 specific QC-PCR, mean values deviated from true values by -7to 18%, with an average of 2+/-10%. Ruggedness of real-time PCR detection methods was assessed in an interlaboratory study analyzing commercial, homogeneous food samples. Roundup Ready soybean DNA contents were determined in the range of 0.3 to 36%, relative to soybean DNA, with RSDs of about 25%. Taking the precision of quantitative PCR detection methods into account, suitable sample plans and sample sizes for GMO analysis are suggested. Because quantitative GMO detection methods measure GMO contents of samples in relation to reference material (calibrants), high priority must be given to international agreements and standardization on certified reference materials.
11767527	The photoperiodic response of F1 and its parents was analyzed, and the photoperiodic response and short photoperiod sensitive male sterility of F2 progenies were studied in this paper. The results showed that the strong response was dominant over the weak response to photoperiod. The photoperiodic response of plants with short photoperiod sensitive male sterility in F2 was above medial degree(the rate of heading acceleration > 15%). Photoperiodic response showed a positive correlation with short photoperiod sensitive male sterility. The main sterility genes of Yid1s and Yid2s were allelism. It can be inferred that the short photoperiod sensitive male sterile gene might be expressed upon the presence of the photoperiodic response genes, and that the short photoperiod sensitive male sterility of plants with the same genes could differ in their reproductive expressions, not because of the changes of the genes, but the difference in genetic backgrounds of photoperiodic response.
11767535	The populations of brown planthopper(BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, were collected from Zhejiang, Guangxi and Yunnan provinces to study their tolerance to various adverse environmental stresses. The results indicated that all of these three populations could adapt to the rice variety IR26 bearing resistant gene 1 (Bph1), and Guangxi and Yunnan populations could successfully infest rice varieties ASD7 bearing bph2 and Rathu Heenati bearing Bph3, implying that these two populations had a higher adaptability to resistant rice varieties. The significantly negative relationship between female brachypterous rate and nymphal density in Zhejiang population showed a lower tolerance to high nymphal density of Zhejiang population than that of Guangxi and Yunnan populations. A higher resistance to high temperature and a lower tolerance to starvation were obviously found in Guangxi and Yunnan populations. The resistance to insecticide (Omethoate) of Zhejiang population was little higher than that of Guangxi population. It was suggested that the tolerance of different geographic populations of BPH to various adverse environmental stresses be closely related to their habitat characteristics.
11767559	The effect of rice varieties with different insect-resistance on dynamics of Nilaparvata lugens and Sogatella furcifera population was examined, based on the investigation of their inhabiting ratio, egg amount, survival rate of egg and nymph, nymph development, and the amount of their offspring population. Four rice varieties, TN1, N22, AsD7 and Ptb33 were investigated. Ptb33 had a significantly lower inhabiting ratio, egg amount, and survival ratio of eggs and nymphs of both parasitic populations, a prolonged development time from nymphs to adults, and an inhibited offspring population, indicating an evident resistance of this host variety. N22 and AsD7 inhibited the development of offspring S. furcifera and N. lugens, respectively. The parasitic populations of S. furcifera and N. lugens developed more rapidly on TN1, compared with N. lugens population on N22 and S. furcifera on AsD7. The relationship between the quantitative dynamics of both population and rice variety replacement was discussed, and the possibility of using resistant rice varieties to control these two insect populations was also analyzed.
11767593	Peking whites breeding hens were selected. Using true metabolizable energy method (TME) to evaluate the available nutritive value of acorn kernel, while maize and rice were used as control. The results showed that the contents of gross energy (GE), apparent metabolizable energy (AME), true metabolizable energy (TME) and crude protein (CP) in the acorn kernel were 16.53 mg/kg-1, 11.13 mg.kg-1, 11.66 mg.kg-1 and 10.63%, respectively. The apparent availability and true availability of crude protein were 45.55% and 49.83%. The gross content of 17 amino acids, essential amino acids and semiessential amino acids were 9.23% and 4.84%. The true availability of amino acid and the content of true available amino acid were 60.85% and 6.09%. The contents of tannin and hydrocyanic acid were 4.55% and 0.98% in acorn kernel. The available nutritive value of acorn kernel is similar to maize or slightly lower, but slightly higher than that of rice. Acorn kernel is a wild economic plant resource to exploit and utilize but it contains higher tannin and hydrocyanic acid.
11767598	A pot experiment in greenhouse was carried out to study seasonal variations of CH4 fluxes from rice paddy soils and the effect of land management in winter crop season on the seasonal variations. The results showed that four emission peaks occurred respectively 13 days after flooding and 7, 40, 91 days after rice transplanting, and CH4 emission amounts during the first 30 days after flooding accounted for as high as 67.5%, 35.5% and 33.3% of the total emission amounts during the observing period of 133 days for treatments with dry fallow but rice straw being applied just before flooding, alfalfa, and flooded fallow in winter crop season. However, for treatments with dry fallow but rice straw being applied before winter crop cultivating and winter wheat in winter crop season, CH4 emission amounts during the first 50 days after flooding just accounted for 0.27% and 6.74 of the total emission amounts during the observing period, and CH4 fluxes thereafter were also very small. Difference in the seasonal variation patterns of soil Eh due to land management in winter crop season was the main reason why seasonal variation patterns of CH4 fluxes from different treatments were different.
11767601	Five sequential cropping systems including rape/soybean-rice, wheat/watermelon-rice, rape/corn-soybean, wheat-sesame and soybean-sesame, were selected study the boron balance in agroecosystem on brown-red soil of south Hubei Province. The results show that the main output of boron was runoff and leaching, which accounted for 48-53% and 41% of the total respectively, while the output by products accounted for 3.4-10.1%. The main inputs were from rainfall, irrigation, fertilization seeds and seedlings, and natural return.
11767675	A field experiment from June 1983 to October 1997 was conducted to study the effect of long-term no-tillage and application of manure on soil fertility properties. The results showed that the contents of soil organic C, total N and available N in the treatment of fourteen consecutive year no-tillage were all significantly higher in 0-5 cm soil layer, while, lower in 5-10 and 10-20 cm layers than in conventional tillage. The content of water stable aggregate in 0-20 cm layer was increased in no-tillage in that the soil structure was less destroyed. Based on various soil fertility properties, the contribution order of different fertilization treatments to soil fertility was as follows: pig manure > straw > green manure > chemical fertilizer > no fertilizer.
11767681	Measurements of NO emission from the winter wheat field of rice-wheat rotation ecosystem in southeast China during the whole period of wheat growth show that a higher NO emission was observed in spring than in autumn, and almost no emission in winter could be detected. Temperature was the most important factor determining the seasonal variation pattern of NO emission. Although the N fertilization might enlarge NO emission by a factor of 5-7, it could not modify the seasonal variation pattern. During the period of relatively weak plant activity, the diurnal variation pattern, with the maximum emission at 9:00-14:00, was determined by temperature. When plants luxuriated, however, the competition of NH4+ by plant uptake and by microbial nitrification led to a night-peak variation pattern, in which, the maximum diurnal emission usually occurred during 18:00 and 4:00 of next day, and the minimum at 8:00-16:00.
11767693	The distribution, binding form and processing removal of arsenic in rice and wheat seeds were studied. The result shows that the distribution of arsenic in seed parts was uneven, as concentration in rice seed was embryo > seed capsule > chaff > endosperm, and that in wheat seed was embryo > seed capsule > endosperm. Arsenic was mainly accumulated in endosperm, and mainly in the form of protein-binding. With the removal of chaff, coarse rice bran and fine rice bran in the processing, the content of arsenic decreased by 16.51%, 12.41% and 10.26%, respectively. Similarly, with the removal of coarse wheat bran and fine wheat bran, it decreased by 22.0% and 45.6%, respectively.
11768218	The rice genus (Oryza L.) consists of 24 species with 10 recognized genome types. With the realization of many useful genes in species of wild rice, continuous efforts have been made to understand their genomic composition and relationships. However, the identification of rice genomes has often been difficult owing to complex morphological variation and formation of allotetraploids. Here we propose a rapid and reliable method for identifying rice genomes based on the restriction sites of PCR-amplified Adh genes. The experimental procedure was as follows: (i) amplify a portion of Adh1 and Adh2 genes with the locus-specific PCR primers; (ii) digest PCR products with restriction enzymes that distinguish different genomes; and (iii) run the digested products on 1.4% agarose gel, and photograph. Using various combinations of restriction digestion of the two Adh genes, all of the rice genomes can be identified.
11768221	In an effort to study genome diversity within and between the Indian biotypes of the Asian rice gall midge, Orseolia oryzae, a major insect pest of rice, we made use of mariner transposable element integration site polymorphisms. Using degenerate primers, the design of which is based on mariner sequences, we amplified a ca. 450 bp mariner sequence from the rice gall midge. The mariner sequence showed homology with that of a mariner element isolated from the Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor, a major dipteran pest of wheat. Southern hybridization, using this mariner fragment as a probe, revealed that the mariner elements are moderately to highly repetitive in the rice gall midge genome. Based on the sequence information of this 450-bp PCR-amplified fragment, outward-directed primers were designed and used in an inverse PCR (iPCR) to amplify the DNA flanking the conserved regions. To study the regions flanking the mariner integration sites, we employed a novel PCR-based approach: a combination of sequence specific amplification polymorphism (SSAP) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). The outward-directed mariner-specific primer was used in combination with adapter-specific primers with 1-3 selective nucleotides at their 3' ends. The amplification products were resolved on an agarose gel, Southern-transferred onto nylon membranes, and probed with the iPCR fragment. Results revealed biotype-specific polymorphisms in the regions flanking the mariner integration sites, suggesting that mariner elements in the rice gall midge may be fixed in a biotype-specific manner. The implications of these results are discussed in the context of biotype differentiation.
11768536	The rice bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is a vascular pathogen that elicits a defensive response through interaction with metabolically active rice cells. In leaves of 12-day-old rice seedlings, the exposed pit membrane separating the xylem lumen from the associated parenchyma cells allows contact with bacterial cells. During resistant responses, the xylem secondary walls thicken within 48 h and the pit diameter decreases, effectively reducing the area of pit membrane exposed for access by bacteria. In susceptible interactions and mock-inoculated controls, the xylem walls do not thicken within 48 h. Xylem secondary wall thickening is developmental and, in untreated 65-day-old rice plants, the size of the pit also is reduced. Activity and accumulation of a secreted cationic peroxidase, PO-C1, were previously shown to increase in xylem vessel walls and lumen. Peptide-specific antibodies and immunogold-labeling were used to demonstrate that PO-C1 is produced in the xylem parenchyma and secreted to the xylem lumen and walls. The timing of the accumulation is consistent with vessel secondary wall thickening. The PO-C1 gene is distinct but shares a high level of similarity with previously cloned pathogen-induced peroxidases in rice. PO-C1 gene expression was induced as early as 12 h during resistant interactions and peaked between 18 and 24 h after inoculation. Expression during susceptible interactions was lower than that observed in resistant interactions and was undetectable after infiltration with water, after mechanical wounding, or in mature leaves. These data are consistent with a role for vessel secondary wall thickening and peroxidase PO-C1 accumulation in the defense response in rice to X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
11769221	In the paper, emission of volatile sulfur gases from paddy soil was discussed in a growth period of paddy rice by constructing a field sampling system. The result showed that COS, CS2, DMS and DMDS were mainly emitted from paddy soil. The order of emission fluxes was 81.11, 6.33 and 10.71 mg.(m2.a)-1. Sulphur emission fluxes of Chinese paddy soil was 0.013662 Tg/a, and those of world paddy soil was 0.07992 Tg/a.
11770429	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (ns-Hbs) previously have been found in monocots and dicots; however, very little is known about the tissue and cell type localization as well as the physiological function(s) of these oxygen-binding proteins. We report the immunodetection and immunolocalization of ns-Hbs in rice (Oryza sativa L.) by Western blotting and in situ confocal laser scanning techniques. Ns-Hbs were detected in soluble extracts of different tissues from the developing rice seedling by immunoblotting. Levels of ns-Hbs increased in the germinating seed for the first six days following imbibition and remained relatively constant thereafter. In contrast, ns-Hb levels decreased during leaf maturation. Roots and mesocotyls contained detectable, but low levels of ns-Hbs. Split-seed experiments revealed that ns-Hbs are synthesized de novo during seed germination and are expressed in the absence of any signal originating from the embryo. Immunolocalization of ns-Hbs by confocal microscopy indicated the presence of ns-Hbs primarily in differentiated and differentiating cell types of the developing seedling, such as the aleurone, scutellum, root cap cells, sclerenchyma, and tracheary elements. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the specific cellular localization of these proteins during seedling development.
11772038	Celiac Sprue is an HLA DQ2 (or DQ8)-associated autoimmune disorder of the human small intestine that is induced by dietary exposure to wheat gliadin and related proteins from barley, rye, and possibly other food grains. Recently, tissue transglutaminase (tTGase)-catalyzed deamidation of gliadin peptides has been shown to increase their potency for activating patient-derived, gliadin-specific T cells, suggesting that tTGase plays a causative role in the onset of an inflammatory response to toxic food grains. To dissect the molecular recognition features of tTGase for gluten derived peptides, the regioselectivity and steady-state kinetics of tTGase-catalyzed deamidation of known immunogenic peptides were investigated. The specificity of recombinant human tTGase for all immunogenic peptides tested was comparable to and, in some cases, appreciably higher than the specificity for its natural substrate. Although each peptide was glutamine-rich, tTGase exhibited a high degree of regioselectivity for a particular glutamine residue in each peptide. This selectivity correlated well with Q --> E substitutions that have earlier been shown to enhance the immunogenicity of the corresponding gliadin peptides. The specificity of tTGase toward homologues of PQPQLPY, a sequence motif found in immunodominant gliadin peptides, was analyzed in detail. Remarkably, the primary amino acid sequences of wheat-, rye-, and barley-derived proteins included many single-residue variants of this sequence that were high-affinity substrates of tTGase, whereas the closest homologues of this sequence found in rice, corn, or oat proteins were much poorer substrates of tTGase. (Rice, corn, and oats are nontoxic ingredients of the Celiac diet.) No consensus sequence for a high-affinity substrate of tTGase could be derived from our data, suggesting that the secondary structures of these food-grain peptides were important in their recognition by tTGase. Finally, under steady-state turnover conditions, a significant fraction of the tTGase active site was covalently bound to a representative high-affinity immunogenic gliadin peptide, suggesting a common mechanism by which cells responsible for immune surveillance of the intestinal tract recognize and generate an antibody response against both gliadin and tTGase. In addition to providing a quantitative framework for understanding the role of tTGase in Celiac Sprue, our results lay the groundwork for the design of small molecule mimetics of gliadin peptides as selective inhibitors of tTGase.
11772612	We evaluated Fusarium contamination and the levels of hexadepsipeptide mycotoxins in 13 wheat samples affected by head blight in Finland. Fusarium avenaceum was the dominant species (91%) isolated from all samples, but isolates of F. culmorum (4%), F. tricinctum (3%), and F. poae (2%) also were recovered. Beauvericin (0.64 to 3.5 microg/g) was detected in all 13 samples. Enniatin B (trace to 4.8 microg/g) was detected in 12 samples, enniatin B(1) (trace to 1.9 microg/g) was detected in 8 samples, and enniatin A(1) (trace to 6.9 microg/g) was detected in 10 samples. Ten of 13 strains of F. avenaceum and 2 strains of F. poae and F. tricinctum produced beauvericin in culture on rice (trace to 70, 9.4, and 33 microg/g, respectively). All strains also produced enniatins (trace to 2,700 microg/g). This is the first report on the natural co-occurence of beauvericin and enniatins in wheat infected predominantly by F. avenaceum.
11773502	The influence of the supplementation of black and white rice outer layer fractions on atherosclerotic plaque formation induced by hypercholesterolemia was investigated in rabbits. Male rabbits (n = 32) were randomly divided into four groups. They were fed nonpurified diet (normal group), a lard (3.5 g/100 g) with high cholesterol (0.5 g/100 g) diet (HC group); the HC diet with 5 g/100 g white rice outer layer fraction (WRF group); or the HC diet with 5 g/100 g black rice outer layer fraction (BRF) for 2 mo. Blood samples were collected for determination of lipid concentration and oxidative and antioxidative status variables, and aortae were taken for the assessment of atherosclerotic plaques. The atherosclerotic plaque area in rabbits fed the BRF diet was 66% lower than that of the HC or WRF rabbits (P < 0.001). Supplementation of the black rice outer layer significantly (P < 0.05) lowered aortic 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) (-52%, -44%) compared with the WRF or HC diets (P < 0.05). There were no differences in aortic 8-OHdG levels between rabbits fed the BRF and normal diets. The BRF diet significantly (P < 0.05) decreased the malondialdehyde (MDA) level of serum (-37%) and aortic artery (-50%) compared with the WRF diet. There were no differences in the concentrations of serum total cholesterol (TC), LDL cholesterol (LDL-C), HDL-C or the ratio of apoprotein (apo)I/apoB among the HC, WRF and BRF groups. Similarly, there were no differences in the serum vitamin E concentration and erythrocyte and aorta superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities among rabbits fed these diets. The serum concentration of most fatty acids except 18:1 did not differ between the WRF and the BRF groups. We conclude that the inhibition of atherosclerotic plaque formation derived from the black rice outer layer fraction in rabbits might be mediated by antioxidative or anti-inflammatory effects.
11773521	The activity of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC, EC4.1.1.31) for the C4 photosynthesis is known to be regulated mainly in response to light/dark transitions through reversible phosphorylation by a specific protein kinase (PK). PEPC-PK with an M(r) of 30 kDa was purified about 1.4 million-fold to homogeneity from maize leaves and characterized. The purified PEPC-PK was readily inactivated under mild oxidative conditions, but the activity could be recovered by dithiothreitol (DTT). The recovery by DTT was strongly accelerated by thioredoxin (Trx) from E. coli. Trxs of plant origin such as Trx-m from spinach chloroplast and Trx-h from rice cytoplasm were also effective. These results suggest the possibility of PEPC-PK being redox-regulated via Trx in vivo.
11774701	To compare intake of food and nutrients between manual and desk workers. Subjects were 28,603 residents (13,432 were male and 15,171 were female) in a city. Using a questionnaire, information on frequencies of consumption of different foodstuffs for one year and the type of employment was collected. Intake of nutrients was calculated from the frequencies and compared between manual and desk workers. The comparison was carried out with stratification by gender and adjustment for age and smoking habits. Desk workers took larger amounts of protein and lipids, and smaller amounts of carbohydrates than manual workers. Predominant foodstuffs in the latter was rice wheat products, potatoes and soybean products, while desk workers consumed more meat, processed meat, milk products, fish, vegetables and fruits. Differences in intake of nutrients and food depending on occupation should be considered, when the relationship between health status and employment is evaluated.
11775322	From epidemiological point of view, Indonesia is an extremely interesting area owing its insular structure and ecological, anthropological, cultural and economical diversity. As everywhere, vector-borne diseases are the result of complex and variable epidemiological systems, subject both to biogeographical rules and human activity. Two main arboviroses are present in Indonesia: dengue and Japanese encephalitis. Dengue appears as an endemoepidemic disease and is mostly circumscribed to urban areas. Haemorrhagic cases were first observed in 1968; since then, the incidence has been constantly increasing and the disease is now one of the principal causes of child lethality. Japanese encephalitis is a rural endemic disease transmitted by rice-field mosquitoes; its incidence remains relatively low since pigs, which are usual link-hosts for the virus, are uncommon in this mainly Muslem country. Human clinical cases are recorded from non-Muslem islands such as Bali or Irian Jaya which raises the question of immunisation for travellers. Recently, Japanese encephalitis was observed on east of the Wallace line which had been considered as the eastern cut-off line. Malaria is common throughout the country, Plasmodium vivax being the most frequent species. Some of the Anopheline vectors are related to brackish water as are coastal species; others have been favoured by rice growing. Several species bite and rest outdoors, rendering control measures complex. Moreover, chloroquine resistance is increasing in both P. falciparum and P. vivax. All three filaria species responsible for human lymphatic filariasis exist in Indonesia. Bancroft filariasis is present in rather limited foci on most of the islands; malayan filariasis is very prevalent on many islands, mostly in coastal areas, and Timor filariasis exist only on a few small islands. These parasitic diseases are cumulative and do not practically endanger the health of travellers. In the past, plague was common on Java island, but today, human cases are very rare. Scrub typhus is prevalent everywhere, as is murine typhus, being very frequent in harbour cities and one of the main causes of hospitalisation for febrile syndromes.. On the whole, the situation of several of these diseases has been worsening in Indonesia for about thirty years. Although epidemiological situations constantly evolve, two recent occurrences should be paid particular attention: -transmigration which is now a national priority and greatly facilitates the spread of many pathogens, arboviroses or chloroquine-resistant plasmodia, but also of rats, mosquitoes, etc. -deforestation due either to land-farming by Javanese transmigrants or to sudden climatic changes such as El Niño in 1997. Such deep ecological transformations may have considerable and unforeseeable consequences on the epidemiology of vector-borne diseases in Indonesia.
11776457	Mosquitoes of the Culex vishnui subgroup (Diptera: Culicidae) are the most important vectors of Japanese encephalitis (JE) and ricefields are their most productive breeding sites in south India, where predominant species of this subgroup are Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles, Cx. pseudovishnui Colless and Cx. vishnui Theobald sensu stricto. The relationship of 13 abiotic variables with the abundance of Cx. vishnui subgroup immatures was investigated in transplanted rice fields for 3 years (1991-94) covering three different crop seasons. The results from the multiple regression model suggested paddy height (- ve), water temperature (+ ve), dissolved oxygen (- ve), ammonia nitrogen (- ve) and nitrate nitrogen (+ ve) to be the best predictor variables associated with the immature abundance, nearly always consistent in their effects within and between seasons. Application of synthetic nitrogenous fertilizers to the rice fields was followed by a rise in concentration of ammonia nitrogen and a subsequent increase in nitrate nitrogen level in the rice field water, during which an increase in the density of larval instars was observed.
11778949	Cereals, especially rice, are a major source of cadmium (Cd) intake for general Japanese populations. In 1998-2000, rice (polished), bread (loaf), noodle and (wheat) flour samples (4113 samples in total) were collected in 63 cities all over Japan, and analyzed for Cd by inductively-coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Another pollutant element of lead (Pb) was determined in parallel. The grand geometric mean for Cd in polished raw (uncooked) rice was 50 ng/g, whereas it was 19 ng/g for flour. The value for Pb was 2-3 ng/g in rice and flour. Calculation for daily Cd intake via rice, taking advantage of the present findings on Cd contents in rice and wheat together with administrative area-specific daily consumptions of rice and wheat showed that Cd via rice is much more than Cd via wheat and that Cd via rice is highest in an area alongside the sea of Japan among the whole country, the observation being in agreement with the results from a previous food duplicate-based field survey.
11779628	We have isolated full-length cDNAs for two distinct isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), designated OsGAD1 and OsGAD2 from a rice shoot cDNA library. Open reading frames found in OsGAD1 and OsGAD2 cDNAs encode putative proteins of 501 (56.7 kDa) and 500 amino acids (55.6 kDa), respectively. They show 69% identity to each other and 67-78% identity to dicotyledonous counterpart sequences determined so far. Comparative analysis of relevant genomic clones obtained from the rice genomic library with these cDNAs as probes demonstrated that the number and sizes of introns deduced for these two genes differ considerably. Interestingly, in the regions in the putative gene products corresponding to the C-terminal 30-amino-acid peptide known as the calmodulin-binding domain of plant GADs, OsGAD1 possesses a typical motif, while OsGAD2 contains several substitutions of amino acids that contribute strongly to the binding of calmodulin (CaM). An in vitro CaM-binding assay of these proteins over-expressed in Escherichia coli revealed that OsGAD1 can in fact bind specifically to bovine CaM but OsGAD2 cannot. RNA analysis showed that transcripts of OsGAD1 and OsGAD2 were present in all tissues examined, but their expression was differentially regulated, at least in roots and maturing seeds.
11780418	To explore the mechanism of perinatal hypoxia-ischemia encephalopathy, we studied the expression of the c-fos gene and its relationship with delayed neuronal death in a rat model. Cerebral hypoxia-ischemia was produced in 7-day-old SD rats using the Rice model. Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR), immunohistochemistry and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) were used to detect the expression of c-fos gene and cell apoptosis in the hippocampus. The selective expression of c-fos and delayed cell apoptosis were observed in the hypoxia-ischemia hippocampus. Expression of the c-fos gene was seen in the CA4 and cingulate sulcus neurons, and apoptosis was observed in the CA1 neurons. Transient expression of the c-fos gene may induce cerebral cell apoptosis, and may have complex relations with delayed cell death.
11780825	A total of 237 rodents was collected in 4 regions of South Carolina from July 1994 through December 1995. Eight species were collected, including cotton mouse, hispid cotton rat, eastern woodrat, marsh rice rat, white-footed mouse, eastern harvest mouse, golden mouse, and black rat. Of the 1,514 ticks recovered from these hosts, Ixodes minor Neumann, including larvae, nymphs, and adults, was the most abundant species, representing 54% of the total. Only immature stages of other tick species were found, including larvae and nymphs of Dermacentor variabilis (Say), Amblyomma maculatum Koch, Ixodes affinis Neumann, and Ixodes scapularis Say. All 5 tick species parasitized cotton mice, cotton rats, and woodrats, which were the most important small mammal hosts for ticks at the localities studied. Rice rats were hosts of A. maculatum, D. variabilis, and L. minor. Amblyomma maculatum was more strongly associated with cotton rats than other rodent species. Ixodes scapularis was most strongly associated with cotton mice, and I. minor was more strongly associated with both woodrats and cotton mice than other species of rodents. Ixodes minor parasitized hosts in the Coastal Zone only, where among spirochete-infected hosts, it was present in significantly greater numbers than other ticks. Furthermore, I. minor was the only tick species that showed a statistically significant positive association with spirochetal infection in rodents. More I. affinis parasitized spirochete-infected hosts than I. scapularis, but fewer than I. minor. The findings discussed herein provide evidence that implicates I. minor as the possible primary enzootic vector of the Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi Johnson, Schmid, Hyde, Steigerwalt and Brenner in the Coastal Zone of South Carolina. They also indicate that the high level of B. burgdorferi infection in rodents from this region may be a function of the combined involvement of I. minor, I. affinis, and I. scapularis in the enzootic transmission of the spirochete.
11781674	To determine and compare the glycaemic index (GI) values of a range of Vietnamese foods in two racial groups. Twelve healthy subjects (six Asian and six Caucasian) consumed 50 g carbohydrate portions of a reference food (glucose sugar) and nine Vietnamese foods (three rices, three noodle products and three sweet foods) in random order after an overnight fast. The reference food was tested on two separate occasions, and the Vietnamese foods were each tested once. Capillary blood samples were taken at time 0 (fasting), 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min from the start of each meal. Samples were analysed for plasma glucose and the incremental areas under the plasma glucose curves (AUC) were used to calculate the GI values of the test foods, using glucose as the reference food (ie GI value of glucose=100). The mean GI value of each food was calculated for the entire group of subjects (n=12) and for both racial groups (n=6). The three rices had surprisingly high GI values (86-109), whereas the noodle products had relatively low GI values (39-61). The sugar-rich foods produced intermediate GI values (54-79). The GI values for the nine foods calculated separately for the two racial groups were not significantly different from each other (P=0.26). The GI values derived from Caucasian subjects are likely to be applicable to Asian populations. Varieties of imported rice from Thailand were found to have high GI values. Alternative low-GI staples, such as rice noodles, may be preferable for Asian/Vietnamese people with diabetes. This study was funded by the University of Sydney.
11782204	Changes in the viscosity properties of gamma-irradiated rice starches (from 1 to 25% amylose content) from four genotypes (JY293, Jiayu 293; XS, Xiushui; ZF504, Zhefu 504; and ZXN, Zaoxiannuo) during pasting in water (pH 7) or in different pH solutions were studied using a rapid visco analyzer. Peak viscosity (PV) of all native rice starches was little affected at pH 4 and 10, while hot paste viscosity (HPV) and cool paste (final) viscosity (CPV) were generally lower at pH 4 and higher at pH 10 as compared with that at pH 7. The PV, HPV, and CPV of gamma-irradiated starches were higher at pH 4 and lower at pH 10 than pH 7. All viscosity characteristics of native rice starches were reduced in stronger alkali (pH 11.5) or acidic (pH 2.5) solutions. However, the gamma-irradiated starches were substantially higher at pH 2.5 but lower at pH 11.5, indicating that the effect of irradiation was highly pH dependent. The swelling volume of irradiated ZF504 and JY293 starch at all irradiation levels was higher at pH 4 than pH 7, while the values were lowest at pH 2.5. The irradiated ZXN and XS starches had higher swelling volumes at pH 4 and pH 2.5 than pH 7. Differential scanning calorimetry analysis showed that gamma-irradiation caused progressively lower gelatinization peak temperature (T(p)) and higher gelatinization range (T(r)) at pH 7. T(p) was higher and T(r) was lower at a much stronger acidic condition (pH 1) for both native and irradiated starches. The possibility of using viscosity changes in low pH for the detection of irradiated starch was discussed.
11782419	We have identified five recessive allelic mutations, mori1-1 to mori1-5, which drastically modify the shoot architecture of rice. The most remarkable feature of mori1 plants is a rapid production of small leaves and short branches. The mori1 plants are about 5 cm in height even 7 months after sowing. No reproductive growth was attained in mori1 plants even if inductive short-day treatment was applied. Leaves of mori1 at any position were very small and the size and shape were comparable to those of the wild-type 2nd leaf. The stem of mori1 7 months after sowing did not differentiate node and internode and had randomly oriented vascular bundles, which were characteristic of the basal part of the wild-type stem where 2nd and 3rd leaves were inserted. These structural characteristics indicate that mori1 maintains the 2nd-leaf stage (juvenile phase) of the wild type. The short plastochron and high cell division activity in the shoot apical meristem further confirmed the juvenility of mori1, corresponding to the 2nd-leaf-differentiation stage in the wild-type embryo. Furthermore, the apparent photosynthetic rate in mori1 leaves was low as in the wild-type 2nd leaf. Thus, mori1 is a heterochronic mutation that suppresses the induction of adult phase and the termination of the juvenile phase. Therefore, MORI1 plays an important role in the juvenile-adult phase change. The importance of heterochronic mutations in modifying shoot architecture is discussed.
11784791	The Disabled-1 protein in mouse is known to be an intercellular signaling component of the Reelin molecular pathway that subserves neuronal migration in several structures in the brain and spinal cord. The scrambler mutant mouse, which is phenotypically identical to the reeler mouse, is due to a mutation in the disabled-1 gene (Howell et al., 1997; Sheldon et al., 1997). The Purkinje cells of the cerebellum express Disabled-1 and experience a massive failure of migration in the scrambler mutant mouse (Howell et al., 1997; Sheldon et al., 1997; Gallagher et al., 1998; Rice et al., 1998). We sought to define the developmental basis of this mutation by studying the Purkinje cell population in experimental mouse aggregation chimeras using a cell marker that permitted the identification of neurons derived from the mutant lineage. We found that a genetically normal component to the environment cannot assist scrambler mutant Purkinje cells in the migratory process. However, the presence of a mutant component to the environment can cause the ectopia of wild-type Purkinje cells. There appears to be a linear relationship between the percentage of the cerebellum that is genetically mutant and the number of wild-type Purkinje cells that express a mutant phenotype. These studies point to the interplay between cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic properties in the migration of neurons to form laminated structures during CNS development.
11785954	Previously, we reported the identification of a gibberellin (GA)-binding protein in rice using ligand binding assay that was homologous to RuBisCO activase (Komatsu et al., FEBS Lett. 384, 167-171, 1996). Here, we provide an evidence for the involvement of protein kinases components downstream to the GA-binding phosphoprotein, RuBisCO activase in rice. Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase activity was studied in subcellular fractions of leaf sheath from transgenic rice containing sense and antisense constructs of RuBisCO activase. In-gel kinase assay using histone III-S as a substrate showed constitutive induction of a 46- and 48-kDa Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase activity in the sense transgenic plants. Kinase activities of these proteins were significantly reduced in the presence of uniconazole, a potent GA biosynthesis inhibitor, but one of them was strongly promoted by GA(3) treatment in transgenic plants carrying a smaller subunit of RuBisCO activase (OsrcaA1) compared to the larger subunit OsrcaA2. Also, in vitro phosphorylation studies using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel showed changes in the degree of phosphorylation of several proteins in OsrcaA1- and OsrcaA2-sense transgenic rice. These studies suggest the presence of two independent cytosolic Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase signaling components downstream to the GA-binding protein in rice suggesting their role in GA signaling.
11786600	To evaluate the dietary patterns of adults living in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and their associations with body mass index (BMI). A survey was conducted in 1996 in a probabilistic sample of 2040 households. Weight and height were measured and food intake was based on an 80-item semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. Dietary patterns were identified through factor analysis. More than one-third of the adult population (20 to 60 years old) was overweight (BMI = 25 to 29.9 kg/m(2)), and 12% were obese (BMI >or= 30 kg/m(2)). Three major dietary patterns were identified: mixed pattern when all food groups and items had about the same factor loading, except for rice and beans; one pattern that relies mainly on rice and beans, which was called a traditional diet; and a third pattern, termed a Western diet, where fat (butter and margarine) and added sugar (sodas) showed the highest positive loading and rice and beans were strong negative components. Among men, the Western diet also included deep-fried snacks and milk products with high positive values. The traditional diet was associated with lower risk of overweight/obesity in logistic models adjusted for dieting, age, leisure physical activity, and occupation (13% reduction in men and 14% reduction in women comparing the traditional and Western diets). Factors contributing to the effects of the Brazilian traditional diet may include low-energy density, high-dietary fiber content, incorporation of low glycemic index foods such as beans, or a relatively low food variety.
11787771	The presence of DNA homologues corresponding to verc203 (vernalization-related cDNA clone) was investigated by molecular hybridization techniques. The genes were detected in 16 plant species that cover 12 subclasses of the Takhtajan system of angiosperms classification including diverse model species. The results of Southern blot analysis showed a low copy number of this gene existed in rice, wheat, barley and Arabidopsis. The hybridization result of PCR products demonstrated the conservation of the gene corresponding to ver203 in diverse plants. The phylogenetic tree of the ver203 gene in tested plants was supported by evolution relationship of species. The ver203 gene expressed in a vernalized plumule winter wheat, instead of the root. And the endosperm before the treatment was essential for the ver203 expression during vernalization in wheat. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the pattern of expression showed that the gene corresponding to ver203 was expressed at low temperature for 14 days. Gibberellin (GA3) may accelerate the expression of ver203 gene in Arabidopsis exposed to low temperature. However, it could not replace vernalization treatment to initiate the gene expression.
11788712	Downstream sequences influence activity of the rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) promoter in protoplasts derived from cultured rice cells. We previously identified a DNA element located between positions +50 and +90 relative to the transcription start site to which rice nuclear proteins bind. In this study, using DNA UV crosslinking assays, we show that two rice nuclear proteins bind specifically to this DNA element. We demonstrate that the DNA element enhances RTBV promoter activity in a copy number-dependent manner when transferred to a position upstream of the promoter. In addition, using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we show that at least two novel nuclear proteins from rice cell suspension cultures bind to a subregion (from +50 to +59) of the DNA element and that a protein from rice root, but not shoot, nuclear extracts interacts with a perfect palindromic sequence motif located within the sequence +45 to +59. Furthermore, a position-dependent GAGA motif, present in three copies within downstream promoter sequences from +1 to +50, is involved in the regulation of RTBV promoter activity.
11788857	The effects of fish antifreeze protein AFP-I on cryopreservation of rice suspension cells by three different protocols were investigated. During the two-step method, AFP-I at 0.01 mg/ml significantly lowered the viability of both precultured and non-precultured cells. During the vitrification method, AFP-I at 0.2 mg/ml improved the viability of suboptimally thawed cells; however, much higher doses of this protein (10mg/ml) attenuated the cell viability. During rapid freezing of rice cells in the solutions with relatively high (but non-vitrifying) concentrations of cryoprotectant, AFP-I displayed protective action in the higher concentrated cryoprotectants and detrimental effect in more dilute ones. Taken together, it was concluded that, depending upon a number of factors discussed in the present paper, both positive effect and negative effect could be observed during application of AFP to cryopreservation of rice cells. The possible mechanism of this dual character was discussed.
11788862	Rice embryogenic suspension cells were successfully cryopreserved by a pregrowth-desiccation procedure. Cells were precultured in liquid AA medium containing 0.175 mol/L sucrose for 3 d and then in liquid AA medium containing 0.4 mol/L sorbitol for 1 d. After air-drying for about 20 h to a water content of 10%, the cells were placed into cryotubes and quenched into liquid nitrogen. Using this pregrowth-desiccation procedure, a survival rate of 96+/-6% (TTC reduction assay) or 100% (cell clump regrowth) was achieved. Cryostored cells revived very quickly during the recovery culture and they retained the ability to regenerate fertile plants. In conclusion, air-drying, a method usually employed in cryopreservation of seeds or shoot tips, can be used as a simple and efficient procedure for the cryopreservation of precultured rice suspension cells.
11788878	This study shows that adding haemoglobin solution (Erythrogen) to post-thaw medium of Indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) cells enhances survival following cryopreservation. Haemoglobin (1:50 - 1:200 v:v) had a beneficial effect on post-thaw viability and subsequent cell growth. A key finding was that the successful recovery from cryopreservation of cell suspensions of the Indica rice cvs. BR26 and Pajam, and their re-establishment in AA2 medium, reflected a requirement for such supplementation of the post-thaw recovery medium with Erythrogen.
11789605	Studies were conducted in Korean native cattle to determine the age and body weight at puberty, and to determine the postpartum anestrus intervals based on plasma progesterone profiles, rectal palpation, ultrasonography and estrus observation. Korean native cattle reached puberty at 344 days of age and at 188 kg body weight as determined by plasma progesterone profiles, but estrous behavior was not detected until 3 months later, at a body weight of 215 kg. Prolonged postpartum anestrus occurred in 40% of smallholders cows, where animals were tethered and fed hay and rice straw, whereas its incidence was only 6.8% in a well managed herd that was grazed and housed. Plasma progesterone profiles were used to monitor ovarian activity postpartum in standard fed cows (n=44) and restricted fed cows (n=20). In standard fed cows 81.8% showed luteal activity by 50 days postpartum, compared to 55% in restricted fed cows. Approximately 40% of cows in both groups had shown observable estrous behavior by this time. This study indicates that one or more ovulations had occurred before pubertal heifers and postpartum cows showed overt estrous behavior. It was concluded that improved management and feeding practices should result in improved reproductive performance.
11789892	Five isonitrogenous diets (approximately 33% crude protein) were fed to the brood female carp, Catla catla (weighing 3.0 to 5.5 kg), for a period of 93 days in order to observe their breeding performance in earthen ponds. Diet-I (control) contained only basic ingredients like rice bran, ground-nut oil cake, roasted soybean meal, fish meal and mineral mixture; diet-II contained added vitamins; diet-III contained added vitamins and vegetable oil (rich in n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids, PUFA); diet-IV contained added vitamins and fish oil (rich in n-3 PUFA); and diet-V contained added vitamins and a mixture of vegetable and fish oils. The results showed that nutritional quality of the diet considerably influenced breeding performance in the species. The total number of matured females was the highest in the diet-V group and maturity was advanced by 35 days in this group compared to the control. In diet-III and diet-V groups, all the maturated females bred fully and the relative fecundity was increased significantly in diet III, IV and V. The maximum (73.4%) fertilisation rate was observed in the diet-V group, followed by 61.3%, 56.8%, 49% and 22.7% in diet-I, diet-IV, diet-III and diet-II groups respectively. Most of the eggs in the diet-II treatment group remained immature. The various data thus obtained suggest that dietary supplementation of both n-3 and n-6 PUFA, is essential to improve gonadal maturation, breeding performance and spawn recovery in the Catla female broodstock.
11789951	The female sex pheromone of the rice leaf bug, Trigonotylus caelestialium, was analyzed by GC-EAD and GC-MS. Ten EAD active compounds-n-hexyl n-hexanoate, (E)-2-hexenyl n-hexanoate, n-hexyl (E)-2-hexenoate, n-octyl n-butyrate, n-octyl n-hexanoate, (E)-2-octenyl n-hexanoate, n-pentyl n-hexanoate, n-hexyl n-butyrate, (E)-2-hexenyl n-butyrate, and n-hexyl (E)-2-butenoate-were detected in the ratio of 1,000:414-491:trace-5:5-11:55-71:50-63:trace-3:225:90:32 from female body extracts, and in the ratio of 1,000:271-342:10-43:1-3:58-78:14-19:trace:178:36:26 from male body extracts. Field trapping tests with these synthetic compounds indicated that n-hexyl n-hexanoate, (E)-2-hexenyl n-hexanoate, and n-octyl n-butyrate are pheromone components, and mixtures in ratios of 1,000:400-500:10-100 were more attractive to males. Doses ranging from 4.29 microg to 14.3 microg of the three-component mixture in the ratio of 1,000:400:30 loaded into glass capillary tubes were most attractive to males.
11790032	The effects of addition of inorganic redox substances (species of NO3-, Mn4+, Fe3+, and SO4(2-)) on methane production and oxidation in anoxic rice (Oryza sativa L.) soil samples were examined. Sulfate was the most inhibitory for methane production followed by Fe3+, NO3-, and Mn4+, in that order. Addition of rice straw at a rate of 1% (w/w) as a carbon source to increase the electron donor to the electron acceptor ratio did not completely alleviate the inhibitory effects of redox species on methane production. Interestingly, laboratory incubation studies showed that addition of MnO2 and K2SO4 enhanced aerobic methane oxidation in soil samples held at 60% water holding capacity. The suspensions of pretreated soil samples with different redox species, when tested for their ability to oxidize methane in soil solution equivalent medium supplemented with respective redox species under aerobic and anaerobic conditions showed differential effects of redox species. Nitrate and Fe3+ stimulated methane oxidation under anaerobic conditions and retarded it under aerobic conditions. Manganese(IV) ion retarded methane oxidation under anaerobic conditions, but enhanced it under aerobic conditions. However, SO4(2-) stimulated methane oxidation in soil solution equivalent medium under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions.
11793651	Asthma is a complex disease, with an etiology that includes both genetic and environmental influences that may interact. The moderate heritability of asthma has led researchers to investigate its molecular genetic basis using both exploratory investigations of linkage via genome scans, as well as targeted studies of specific candidate genes. Promising candidate genes include the cytokine genes on chromosome 5q23-31. Both genome scans and association studies of these candidate genes/genomic regions have yielded mixed findings, which raise the possibilities of a true relation that emerges more strongly in certain samples simply due to sampling variability, as well as of genetic heterogeneity. Meta-analytic approaches that combine data across samples and examine how findings may vary as a function of effect modifiers can address both of these possibilities. In this study, we used a meta-analytic approach to examine linkage between the interleukin-9 gene (IL9), one of the cytokine genes located on chromosome 5q31, and asthma diagnoses and serum IgE levels in four samples. We analyzed IBD allele sharing for affected, unaffected, and discordant sib pairs, and as a function of sibling differences in IgE levels. We used a recently developed logistic regression-based method that allows for the inclusion of covariates and/or effect modifiers in the analysis of allele sharing in sib-pairs [Rice et al., Genet Epidemiol 17(Suppl. 1):S691-5, 1999]. Sex of the siblings and transmitting parent were considered both as covariates and effect modifiers in analyses. The results provided little evidence for linkage, or for heterogeneity therein due to sex or transmitting parent, either within or across samples.
11793733	Using simulated data from GAW 12, problem 2, we further develop a novel technique to detect and use significant covariates in linkage analysis. The method, first introduced by Rice et al. [Genet Epidemiol 17(Suppl. 1):S691-5, 1999], uses logistic regression to model perturbation in sharing as a function of covariate levels. The original method allows use of all sib pairs (concordant affected, concordant unaffected, and discordant). Here we extend this method to include cousin pairs in analysis.
11796092	To monitor trends in Danish food habits with respect to selected key elements, from 1995 to 1998, and to evaluate the appropriateness of the method developed for that purpose. Two cross-sectional population surveys, in 1995 and 1998. Data collection by computer-assisted telephone interviews including 10 food-frequency questions, questions on type of fat used on sandwiches and drinking milk, and check questions on the previous day. Reproducibility was tested in a subgroup (n = 222) in the 1998 survey. The Danish Nutrition Council initiated the survey. Men and women aged 15-90 years, 1007 in 1995 and 1024 in 1998. Samples of private telephone numbers were drawn from regional telephone registers, geographically stratified. Participation rates were 62%. Significant differences were observed between 1995 and 1998, some of these in accordance with dietary guidelines (decreased use of whole milk and fat spread on bread, increased use of skimmed milk, salad vegetables, rice/pasta and fish). Other changes were opposite to dietary guidelines (increased use of soft butter, decreased use of soft margarine and low-fat spreads, potatoes, and fresh fruit). Differences in average consumption frequency amounted to 4-13%. Several results were confirmed by comparison with other data, and the reproducibility of the method was acceptable. Data were suitable for analysis of food use patterns, a relevant approach when assessing food habits in a lifestyle context. The changes observed illustrate the dynamics of food habits and the need for frequent monitoring. This simple telephone method may be a valuable tool for that purpose, as a supplement to national dietary surveys, also in a public health context.
11796168	Starch is a major storage product of many economically important crops such as wheat, rice, maize, tapioca, and potato. A large-scale starch processing industry has emerged in the last century. In the past decades, we have seen a shift from the acid hydrolysis of starch to the use of starch-converting enzymes in the production of maltodextrin, modified starches, or glucose and fructose syrups. Currently, these enzymes comprise about 30% of the world's enzyme production. Besides the use in starch hydrolysis, starch-converting enzymes are also used in a number of other industrial applications, such as laundry and porcelain detergents or as anti-staling agents in baking. A number of these starch-converting enzymes belong to a single family: the alpha-amylase family or family13 glycosyl hydrolases. This group of enzymes share a number of common characteristics such as a (beta/alpha)(8) barrel structure, the hydrolysis or formation of glycosidic bonds in the alpha conformation, and a number of conserved amino acid residues in the active site. As many as 21 different reaction and product specificities are found in this family. Currently, 25 three-dimensional (3D) structures of a few members of the alpha-amylase family have been determined using protein crystallization and X-ray crystallography. These data in combination with site-directed mutagenesis studies have helped to better understand the interactions between the substrate or product molecule and the different amino acids found in and around the active site. This review illustrates the reaction and product diversity found within the alpha-amylase family, the mechanistic principles deduced from structure-function relationship structures, and the use of the enzymes of this family in industrial applications.
1179644
11797910	White spot disease (WSD) is a pandemic disease caused by a virus commonly known as white spot syndrome virus (WSSV). Several risk factors for WSD outbreaks have been suggested. However, there have been very few studies to identify risk factors for WSD outbreaks in culture systems. This paper presents and discusses the risk factors for WSSV infection identified during a longitudinal observational study conducted in a Vietnamese rice-shrimp farming system. A total of 158 variables were measured comprising location, features of the pond, management practices, pond bottom quality, shrimp health and other animals in the pond. At the end of the study period WSSV was detected in 15 of the 24 ponds followed through the production cycle (62.5%). One hundred and thirty-nine variables were used in univariate analyses. All the variables with a p-value < or = 0.10 were used in unconditional logistic regression in a forward stepwise model. An effect of location was identified in both univariate and multivariate analyses showing that ponds located in the eastern portion of the study site, closer to the sea, were more likely to test positive for WSSV by 1-step PCR at harvest. Ponds with shrimp of a smaller average size 1 mo after stocking tended to be positive for WSSV at the end of the production cycle. Average weight at 1 mo was also highlighted in multivariate analyses when considered as either a risk factor or an outcome. Other risk factors identified in univariate analyses were earlier date of stocking and use of commercial feed. A number of variables also appeared to be associated with a reduced risk of WSSV at harvest including the presence of dead post larvae in the batch sampled at stocking, presence of Hemigrapsus spp. crabs during the first month of production, feeding vitamin premix or legumes, presence of high numbers of shrimp with bacterial infection and the presence of larger mud crabs or gobies at harvest. No associations were detected with WSSV at harvest and stocking density, presence, or number or weight of wild shrimp in the pond. The multivariate model to identify outcomes associated with WSSV infection highlighted the presence of high mortality as the main variable explaining the data. The results obtained from this study are discussed in the context of WSD control and areas requiring further investigation are suggested.
11802218	To assess gastric cancer (GC) risk in relation to dietary intake in Korea, a case-control study was performed. Trained dietitians interviewed 136 patients diagnosed with GC, and the same number of controls were selected by matching sex, age and hospital. A significant decrease in GC risk was observed with increased intake of Baiechu kimchi (prepared with salted Chinese cabbage and red pepper, etc.), Baiechu kimchi-stew, garlic, mushroom and soybean milk. On the contrary, a significant increase in the risk of GC was observed with increased intake of cooked rice with bean, charcoal grilled beef, pollack soup, Kkakduki (a kind of kimchi prepared with salted radish and red pepper, etc.), Dongchimi (a kind of kimchi prepared with radish and a large quantity of salt water) and cooked spinach. In food groups, increased intake of soybean products was associated with decreased risk of GC. Intake of citrus fruits rather than total fruits was shown to have a protective effect on the risk of GC, but was not significant. In this study, intake of total vegetables was shown to have a protective effect, whereas high nitrate-containing vegetables increased the risk of GC. In conclusion, our study suggests that the risk of GC decreased with high consumption of fresh vegetables and fruits, whereas high consumption of foods rich in nitrate and carcinogenic substances produced during the cooking process increased the risk of GC.
11802419
11802604	Pyribenzoxim, benzophenone O-[2,6-bis(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yloxy)benzoyl]oxime, is a new post-emergence herbicide providing broad-spectrum weed control in rice fields. [14C]Pyribenzoxim was used to study the pharmacokinetics of the compound after oral administration of a dose of 1000 mg kg-1 to male Sprague-Dawley rats. The material balance ranged from 97.3 to 99.7% of the administered dose and urinary and fecal recovery accounted for 97.1%, with the majority of radioactivity recovered in feces (88.6%) by 168 h after treatment. Elimination as volatile products or as carbon dioxide was negligible. The following values were obtained for the compound in the blood: AUC0-168 h, 28,400 micrograms equiv hg-1; Tmax, 12 h; Cmax, 372 micrograms equiv g-1; half-life, 53 h. Radioactivity in tissue decreased from 96.1% of applied radiocarbon at 6 h to 0.4% at 168 h and the highest concentration of radioactivity among the tissues was observed in liver while the lowest residues were found in brain. The elimination half-lives of radioactivity from tissues was in the range of 7 to 77 h and Tmax values of 12, 24 and 12 h were observed for blood, liver and kidney, respectively. Except for that in the digestive tract, the tissue-to-blood ratio (TBR) was highest in the liver.
11803810	During the last ten years, Arabidopsis thaliana has become the most favoured plant system for the study of many aspects of development and adaptation to adverse conditions and diseases. The sequencing of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome is nearly completed with more than 90% of the sequence being released in public databases. This is the first plant genome to be analysed and it has revealed a tremendous amount of information about the nature of the genes it contains and its largely duplicated organisation. French groups have been involved in Arabidopsis genomics at several steps: EST (expressed sequence tags) sequencing, construction and ordering (physical mapping of chromosomes) of a YAC (yeast artificial chromosomes) library, genomic sequencing. In parallel an extensive programme of functional genomics is being undertaken through the systematic analysis of insertional mutants. This information provides a support for analysing other more economically important plant genomes such as the rice genome and constitutes the beginning of a systematic investigation on plant gene functions and will promote new strategies for plant improvement.
11803811	Pollination and fertilization are key steps leading to seed and fruit formation. To obtain genes involved in pollination and fertilization in rice, an RNA fingerprinting technique, cDNA-AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism), was used to generate transcript profiles related to pollination. Of 15,000 cDNA fragments inspected, 2,100 showed altered expression in the pollinated pistil, of which about 1/5 were up-regulated (URP) and the rest down-regulated (DRP), suggesting that gene repression is a predominant mode of gene regulation in the pollinated pistil. Over 200 URP genes were sequenced and databank searches revealed that 70% of them represented previously unnoticed rice genes. DNA blot analysis of 20 URP genes detected no restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP) between two relatively distant rice varieties, suggesting that the URP genes are highly conserved and likely play important roles in pollination and fertilization. Furthermore, two genes, URP47 and URP63, probably encoding an ADP-ribosylation factor and a membrane transporter, respectively, in relation to pollination were discussed.
11804342	We report here two environmental genic male-sterilities (EGMS) in rice. These two EGMS rice lines, thermo-sensitive genic male-sterility (TGMS) and photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterility (PGMS), are controlled by temperature and photoperiod, respectively, in determining their male-sterility. Male-sterility of the TGMS and PGMS was found to be induced when they were grown at 32 degrees C/26 degrees C (day/night) with 14 h daylight, while they were fertile at 26 degrees C/20 degrees C (day/night) with 10 h daylight in a growth chamber. We also examined their anther structures under a light microscope. The light microscopic observation revealed that the EGMS lines showed a complete pollen abortion at the sterile growth condition while they produced normal fertile pollens at the fertile growth condition.
11804343	An effective way to study the infection mechanisms of fungal pathogens is to disrupt their genes via transformation in both targeted and random manners. This isolates the mutants that exhibit altered virulence. In this paper, we report the successful transformation of Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent for rice blast, that is mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Employing the binary vector pBHt2, which carries the bacterial hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene under the control of the Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter as a selectable marker, led to the production of 500 to > 1,000 hygromycin B-resistant transformants per 1 x 10(6) conidia of M. grisea. The transformation efficiency is correlated with the number of A. tumefaciens cells used, pre-treating bacterial cells with acetosyringone prior to co-cultivation with fungal spores, and the duration of co-cultivation. All of the transformants tested remained mitotically stable, maintaining their hygromycin B resistance after several generations of growth in the absence of hygromycin B. A genomic Southern blot analysis showed that over 60% of the transformants contained a single T-DNA insert on their genome. Considering the efficiency and flexibility of A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT), this technique offers highly efficient means for characterizing the genes that are important for the pathogenicity of M. grisea.
11804359	The adoption of phosphorus removal at sewage treatment works (STW) creates two main problems. Firstly large amounts of sludge are produced and secondly the quantity of the effluent deteriorates due to the increase in the phosphorus load of the sidestream. Furthermore, these processes do not remove phosphorus in a form that would enable it to be recycled. Therefore in order to control these process difficulties and produce a recyclable phosphorus product a sidestream struvite crystallisation reactor was developed. The struvite was produced in a fluidised bed reactor using dewatered filtrate from anaerobic sludge digestion. Magnesium hydroxide was added in a magnesium to phosphate ratio of 1:1 and the pH was adjusted to between 8.2-8.8 with the addition of sodium hydroxide. A retention time of 10 days alowed the growth of pellets between 0.5-1.0 mm in size. The recovered struvite contained only minute traces of toxic substances and was sold to fertiliser companies for 27,000 yen tonne(-1). It is used to enhance existing fertilisers, which are widely used on paddy rice, vegetables and flowers.
11804459	In 1999, an aerial application of VectoLex WDG (water-dispersible granules) at 1.68 and 0.56 kg/ha, applied against sentinel 3rd-stage larvae of Psorophora columbiae installed in 0.42-ha rice plots 48 h after treatment, provided no control at 72 and 96 h after treatment. Less than 10% reduction was obtained at both rates 8 and 9 days after treatment against larvae of Ps. columbiae installed at 7 days after treatment. In a later test, VectoLex WDG manually applied at 5.04 and 1.68 kg/ha to small rice plots containing sentinel 3rd-stage larvae of Ps. columbiae and Anopheles quadrimaculatus obtained 90 and 97% control of Ps. columbiae at both rates, respectively, 24 h after treatment. A 2nd installation of Ps. columbiae at 24 h after treatment resulted in 7% and no control at both rates, respectively, even in the presence of larval carcasses from the 1st installation. VectoLex WDG was not effective against Ps. columbiae after 24 h atter treatment at either rate. Poor control was obtained at both rates against An. quadrimaculatus 24 h and 48 h after treatment for both installations. Two types of commercial rice fields containing native populations of larvae of An. quadrimaculatus were used for field tests in Cleveland, MS. In 1999, VectoLex WDG, aerially applied at 1.68 and 0.56 kg/ha to 0.2-ha plots in a contoured rice field, produced 81 and 85% reductions in early (neonate and 1st- and 2nd-stage) larvae and 94 and 76% reductions in late (3rd- and 4th-stage) larvae 2 days after treatment, respectively. At 2 days after treatment, means for all 4 developmental groupings (early larvae, late larvae, pupae, and combined stages) were significantly higher in untreated plots. Both VectoLex WDG rates did not differ significantly from one another. At 8 days after treatment, untreated plots contained significantly greater mean numbers of early larvae, late larvae, and combined stages, whereas both VectoLex WDG treatments were not significantly different. In 2000, VectoLex WDG applied at 1.68 kg/ha to two 0.40-ha plots in a precision-leveled field yielded 59 and 100% reductions of early and late larvae, respectively, 2 days after treatment. Reduction of late larvae remained 100% at 8 days after treatment. The numbers of late larvae, pupae, and combined stages were significantly greater in the untreated plot 2 days after treatment. At 8 days after treatment, numbers of early larvae and combined stages were significantly higher in the VectoLex WDG plot, whereas numbers of late larvae were significantly higher in the untreated plot. The differences in susceptibility of Ps. columbiae and An. quadrimaculatus to VectoLex WDG could be attributed to species differences in larval feeding behavior, body positioning in the water column, and developmental time. In tests in Arkansas, Ps. columbiae were controlled more quickly, usually within 24 h of exposure, whereas the percent reduction for An. quadrimaculatus in both tests in Cleveland, MS, suggests that control of this species within the region tested required from 48 h up to 8 days of exposure.
11804467	Construction of an aquatic light trap developed for the live capture of 3rd-stage larvae of predatory Tropisternus sp. for use in laboratory bioassays against larvae of Anopheles quadrimaculatus and Psorophora columbiae is described. On 10 occasions, an average of 5.2 traps was used per evening, resulting in 52 trap-nights that accumulated 106.7 h of trapping time, or an average of 10.6 h per trap. Use of 2 heavy-duty alkaline D-sized batteries and appropriate in-circuit resistance effectively increased bulb life and trap operating time, ranging from 22 to 36 h. During both seasons, approximately 3 wk after permanent flooding of large rice fields was the most productive period in which to capture larvae of Tropisternus sp. Live trapping worked well and provided numerous larvae of Tropisternus sp. for use in laboratory predation bioassays with An. quadrimaculatus and Ps. columbiae larvae. Six hundred fifteen 3rd-stage larvae of Tropisternus sp. and 740 adult Tropisternus lateralis were captured in aquatic light traps in 1999 and 2000. Of traps containing larval Tropisternus sp. and adult T. lateralis, average numbers of 15.3 and 19.4 were captured per trap, respectively. Among all traps, the largest nightly captures of larval Tropisternus sp. and adult T. lateralis consisted of 263 and 404 specimens, respectively. The largest single trap captures for larval Tropisternus sp. and adult T. lateralis were 94 and 184, respectively. Additionally, 478 rice water weevils (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus) also were captured. Rice water weevils averaged 36.7 per trap, with the largest single trap capture of 102 weevils on an evening where 287 weevils were captured among all traps. Other predatory insect species were captured infrequently, consisting primarily of 3rd-stage larvae of Hydrophilus triangularis and adult belostomatids, dytiscids, and notonectids. Predatory larvae of H. triangularis may have been attracted to the traps by the presence of larval Tropisternus sp. Larval Tropisternus sp. may have been attracted by the light source and prey items that entered the trap, such as chironomid larvae.
11804522	Chilling whole rice seedlings at 5 degrees C significantly increased the time needed to recover linear growth and reduced the subsequent linear rate of radicle growth. Subjecting nonchilled seedlings to a 45 degrees C heat shock for up to 20 min did not alter subsequent growth, whereas a 3 min heat shock was optimal in reducing growth inhibition caused by 2 days of chilling. The activity of five antioxidant enzymes [superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1), catalase (CAT; EC 1.11.1.6), ascorbate peroxidase (APX; EC 1.11.1.11), glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2), and guaiacol peroxidase (GPX; EC 1.11.1.7)] and DPPH (1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl)-radical scavenging activity were measured in heat-shocked and/or chilled radicles. Heat shock slightly increased the activity of CAT, APX, and GR and suppressed the increase of GR and GPX activity during recovery from chilling. Increased CAT, APX, GR, and DPPH-radical scavenging activity and protection of CAT activity during chilling appear to be correlated with heat shock-induced chilling tolerance.
11805066	Reproductive barriers are thought to play an important role in the processes of speciation and differentiation. Asian rice cultivars, Oryza sativa, can be classified into two main types, Japonica and Indica, on the basis of several characteristics. The fertility of Japonica-Indica hybrids differs from one cross to another. Many genes involved in reproductive barriers (hybrid sterility, hybrid weakness, and gametophytic competition genes) have been reported in different Japonica-Indica crosses. To clarify the state of Japonica-Indica differentiation, all reproductive barriers causing deviation from Mendelian segregation ratios in F(2) populations were mapped and compared among three different Japonica-Indica crosses: Nipponbare/Kasalath (NK), Fl1084/Dao Ren Qiao (FD), and Fl1007/Kinandang puti (FK). Mapping of reproductive barriers was performed by regression analysis of allele frequencies of DNA markers covering the entire genome. Allele frequencies were explained by 33 reproductive barriers (15 gametophytic and 18 zygotic) in NK, 32 barriers (15 gametophytic and 17 zygotic) in FD, and 37 barriers (19 gametophytic and 18 zygotic) in FK. The number of reproductive barriers in the three crosses was similar; however, most of the barriers were mapped at different loci. Therefore, these reproductive barriers formed after Japonica-Indica differentiation. Considering the high genetic similarity within Japonica and Indica cultivars, the differences in the reproductive barriers of each cross were unexpectedly numerous. The reproductive barriers of Japonica-Indica hybrids likely evolved more rapidly than other genetic elements. One possible force responsible for such rapid evolution of the barriers may have been the domestication of rice.
11806537	We have found that rice bran effectively adsorbed chloroform from tap water. The amount of chloroform adsorbed was plotted against the equilibrium concentration of chloroform in solution on a logarithmic scale. A linear relationship was obtained, indicating that the adsorption reaction was a Freundlich type. The removal of chloroform by rice bran was attributed to the uptake into intracellular particles called spherosomes.
11808040
11808800	The presence of aflatoxin B1 was analyzed in imported food and feedstuffs of national production in the period of 1990 through 1996, destined to animal and human consumption using an immunoenzymatic reagent kit (Aflacen, Ckure, la Habana, Cuba) with a detection limit of 0.3 microg/kg. It was found that the 17.04% of a total of 4,594 analyzed samples presented aflatoxin B1, and the biggest percentages were in sorghum and peanut with an 83.3 and 40.4%, respectively. The corn, oat, wheat, and soy are fundamental raw ingredients in the elaboration of concentrates. Percentages of contamination with aflatoxin B1 of 23.3, 10.7, 25, and 4.6 were found in corn, oat, wheat, and soy, respectively. Other analyzed foods like rice, beans, and peas presented percentages of contamination with aflatoxin B1 inferior to 5% of the analyzed samples. It was found that more than 455 samples surpassed the value of 10 microg/kg. Corn and peanut products present a high demand in population showing levels of contamination superior to 50 microg/kg. The 11.3% of the samples contaminated with aflatoxin B1 have values between 1 and 20 microg/kg, where peanut and concentrates show the highest percentages (21.9 and 18.7), respectively. These results show levels of aflatoxin B1 in the population that constitute a great risk for human and animal health.
11809972	A survey of China's plant biotechnologists shows that China is developing the largest plant biotechnology capacity outside of North America. The list of genetically modified plant technologies in trials, including rice, wheat, potatoes, and peanuts, is impressive and differs from those being worked on in other countries. Poor farmers in China are cultivating more area of genetically modified plants than are small farmers in any other developing country. A survey of agricultural producers in China demonstrates that Bacillus thuringiensis cotton adoption increases production efficiency and improves farmer health.
118100
11810247	Structural features of the wheat plastome were clarified by comparison of the complete sequence of wheat chloroplast DNA with those of rice and maize chloroplast genomes. The wheat plastome consists of a 134,545-bp circular molecule with 20,703-bp inverted repeats and the same gene content as the rice and maize plastomes. However, some structural divergence was found even in the coding regions of genes. These alterations are due to illegitimate recombination between two short direct repeats and/or replication slippage. Overall comparison of chloroplast DNAs among the three cereals indicated the presence of some hot-spot regions for length mutations. Whereas the region with clustered tRNA genes and that downstream of rbcL showed divergence in a species-specific manner, the deletion patterns of ORFs in the inverted-repeat regions and the borders between the inverted repeats and the small single-copy region support the notion that wheat and rice are related more closely to each other than to maize.
11811219	Starch thickened infant formulas have been shown to relieve regurgitation and increase caloric retention. We compared the completeness of digestion of the carbohydrates in lactose-rice formula (study formula) with routine infant formula in infants with GER. A prospective open study of 30 normal, well-nourished infants with simple regurgitation was conducted. The clinical history on regurgitation, stool pattern and baseline breath hydrogen (bH2) test were obtained at entry, with the infants still using their original routine infant formula, and after a wash out period of 7 days, during which they were fed only with study formula. Analysis of bH2 results showed lower levels of bH2 at 1, 2 and 3 hours with study formula compared with the original formula at the 2nd and 3rd hour (p<0.05). The effectiveness of the study formula in managing GER was demonstrated by the fact that 26 out of 30 had either "some improvement" or a "good response." Hardening of the stool pattern was reported in 13 of the 30 infants after 1 week of study formula. The mean of peak bH2 in study formula fed subjects with formed and firm/hard stool was significantly lower than in those with soft and pasty stool. In conclusion, this study has shown the effectiveness of rice thickened infant formulas in managing infants with GER. Rice-starch has an additional advantage of ease of digestion. The hardening of stool pattern was also frequently observed.
11811449	To determine the effects of dietary lasalocid and increased dietary fat on reproduction, multiparous Brahman cows (n = 68), body condition score (BCS) of 6.2 +/- 0.7 and BW of 500.9 +/- 42.6 kg, were randomly assigned within sex of calf to receive one of four rations. All treatment groups grazed Coastal bermudagrass overseeded with rye-ryegrass and were given ad libitum access to hay and water. The control (n = 17) group received 4.17 kg x d(-1) x cow(-1) of 4:1 corn:soybean meal. The rice bran (n = 17) group received 4.35 kg x d(-1) x cow(-1) of 3:1:1 corn:soybean meal:rice bran (5.2% dietary fat). The lasalocid (n = 17) group received the Control diet with the addition of 200 mg of lasalocid x d(-1) x cow(-1). The rice bran-lasalocid (n = 17) group received the rice bran diet with the addition of 200 mg of lasalocid x d(-1) x cow(-1). Diets were fed once daily from d 1 after parturition through the detection of first estrus. Weight and BCS of cows and BW of calves were recorded at 14-d intervals from d 1 after parturition through detection of first estrus and at weaning. Cows were bled on d 1, 3, 5, 7, and 14 and at weekly intervals until estrus and on d 7 and d 10 after estrus. Ovarian follicular populations were monitored by transrectal ultrasonography weekly from d 14 after parturition through detection of first estrus. Plasma 13-14-dihydro-15-ketoprostaglandin-F2alpha (PGFM) and progesterone (P4) concentrations were quantified using RIA. Concentrations of PGFM from d 1 to 7 and P4 concentrations on d 7 and 10 after estrus were not influenced (P > 0.10) by diet or sex of calf. Changes in BW and BCS were not affected (P > 0.10) by diet. The number of medium-sized follicles tended to be greater (P < 0.06) in Controls than in cows on lasalocid or rice bran + lasalocid treatments on d 21. Cumulative return to estrus with a functional corpus luteum by d 60 postpartum was greater (P < 0.02) in the rice bran (70.6%) and lasalocid groups (76.5%) than in Controls (52.9%) or the group given rice bran + lasalocid (25.0%). Normal first estrous cycles were less likely (P < 0.07) to be exhibited in cows given rice bran + lasalocid than in other groups. Intervals from calving to corpus luteum formation, functional corpus luteum, and first P4 > or = 1 ng/mL were longer (P < 0.02) in cows given rice bran + lasalocid than in other cows. Combining increased dietary fat (5.2%) with lasalocid lengthened the time to reproductively important events.
11811616	Exposure of isolated thylakoids or intact plants to elevated temperature is known to inhibit photosynthesis at multiple sites. We have investigated the effect of elevated temperature (40 degrees C) for 24 hr in dark on rice seedlings to characterize the extent of damage by in vivo heat stress on photofunctions of photosystem II (PSII). Chl a fluorescence transient analysis in the intact rice leaves indicated a loss in PSII photochemistry (Fv) and an associated loss in the number of functional PSII units. Thylakoids isolated from rice seedlings exposed to mild heat stress exhibited >50% reduction in PSII catalyzed oxygen evolution activity compared to the corresponding control thylakoids. The ability of thylakoid membranes from heat exposed seedlings to photooxidize artificial PSII electron donor, DPC, subsequent to washing the thylakoids with alkaline Tris or NH2OH was also reduced by approximately 40% compared to control Tris or NH2OH washed thylakoids. This clearly indicated that besides the disruption of oxygen evolving complex (OEC) by 40 degrees C heat exposure for 24 hr, the PSII reaction centers were impaired by in vivo heat stress. The analysis of Mn and manganese stabilizing protein (MSP) contents showed no breakdown of 33 kDa extrinsic MSP and only a marginal loss in Mn. Thus, we suggest that the extent of heat induced loss of OEC must be due to disorganization of the OEC complex by in vivo heat stress. Studies with inhibitors like DCMU and atrazine clearly indicated that in vivo heat stress altered the acceptor side significantly. [14C] Atrazine binding studies clearly demonstrated that there is a significant alteration in the QB binding site on D1 as well as altered QA to QB equilibrium. Thus, our results show that the loss in PSII photochemistry by in vivo heat exposure not only alters the donor side but significantly alters the acceptor side of PSII.
11812833	By sequencing, fingerprinting and in situ hybridization of a centromere-specific large insert clone (BAC 7), the sequence organization of centromeric DNA of barley could be elucidated. Within 23 kb, three copies of the Ty3/gypsy-like retroelement cereba were present. Two elements of approximately 7 kb, arranged in tandem, include long terminal repeats (LTRs) (approximately 1 kb) similar to the rice centromeric retrotransposon RIRE 7 and to the cereal centromeric sequence family, the primer binding site, the complete polygene flanked by untranslated regions, as well as a polypurine tract 5' of the downstream LTR. The high density (approximately 200 elements/centromere) and completeness of cereba elements and the absence of internally deleted elements and solo LTRs from the BAC 7 insert represent unique features of the barley centromeres as compared to those of other cereals. Obviously, the conserved cereba elements together with barley-specific G+C-rich satellite sequences constitute the major components of centromeric DNA in this species.
11813411	With alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and paddy rice as test plants, and with pollutant level, specific bacteria, fungi and organic fertilizer as control factors, the bioremediation of mineral oil and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in soils with two plant species was conducted. The results showed that the degradation rate of mineral oil was promoted by fertilization in alfalfa soil, but not in paddy rice soil. The degradation rate of total PAHs (11 PAH listed in USEPA) was increased by fertilization both in alfalfa and in paddy rice soil, and the promotion effect of fertilizer was better in paddy rice soil than in alfalfa soil. The fertilization rate was positively related to the rhizospheric indigenous fungi and bacteria's CFU in alfalfa soil, but only to the indigenous bacteria's CFU in paddy rice soil. The fungi and bacteria's CFU in both test soils had no positive relation with the amount of specific bacteria and fungi spiked. The degradation rate of 3-ring PAHs was enhanced in both alfalfa and paddy rice soil by fertilization, and the effect was stronger in paddy rice soil than in alfalfa soil. However, fertilization had no positive effect on the degradation of 4-ring PAHs.
11813424	This paper studied the content malodialdehyde (MDA) and the leakage rate of electrolyte in leaves of various rice varieties with different iron-toxicity tolerance and of Echinochloa crusgalli under excessive Fe2+ (160 mg.L-1) stress. The results showed that both the MDA content and the leakage rate of electrolyte in leaves of plants were significantly and negatively correlated with the tolerance of test plants to iron toxicity. It was suggested that both MDA content and leakage rate of electrolyte could be used as the index for evaluating the tolerance to iron toxicity.
11813434	Main indexes of rice injury by insufficient illumination (II) were selected through Gray Relation, and the effect of regulation agent on rice injured by II at different stages during heading-filling period was analyzed using Gradation Analysis and Fuzzy Comprehensive Evaluation. The results showed that the percentage of filled-grain, net assimilation rate and root activity were the top three indexes subject to injury. Application of chemical regulation agent when the injury occurred 6-20 days after heading had the best effect, with a degree of subordinacy of 0.7869.
11813435	Through investigations from March to June 1998 on the phytoplankton in waters of biological-controlled and ordinary rice fields, 112 species of phytoplankton were found, of which, Bacillariophyta, Euglenophyta and Chlorophyta were dominant. The comparison of the species in two rice fields showed that in biological-controlled rice field, there were more species of Euglenophyta, with 5 most dominant species, i.e., 2 of Euglenophyta, 2 of Bacillariophyta and 1 of Chlorophyta. In ordinary rice field, there were more Bacillariophyta species, in which, 5 most dominant species belonged to Bacillariophyta, except Scenedesmus bijuga to Chlorophyta. The biodiversities of phytoplankton and their evennesses were also analyzed with the period from the seedlings being planted to the rice fields being dried, showing that a little increase in their biodiversity mainly caused by the increase of species number and an evident decrease in their evennesses.
11813436	The transpiration rate and water use efficiency (WUE) of rice were studied under high, moderate and low soil water conditions (treatments A, B and C) in the red soil area of southern China. Diurnal variation of transpiration showed that rice transpiration rate was influenced by several microclimatic factors in the field. Correlation analysis and stepping multi-regression analysis suggested that the difference of relative humidity between leaf and air, and the leaf temperature were the two main factors affecting the transpiration rate of rice. The results also showed that WUE was and yield were increased significantly in treatment B. While in treatment C, the WUE increased, but the yield of late rice decreased. The transpiration rate of early rice was decreased under moderate and low soil water treatments, but this did not happen to late rice.
11814369	Nonpharmacological and nonsurgical measures are often recommended for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in infants, despite ambiguous supporting evidence. To conduct a systematic review of rigorously evaluated nonpharmacological and nonsurgical therapies for GERD in infants. We searched online bibliographic databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Collaboration and Clinical Trials Database, and alternative medicine databases for the terms gastroesophageal reflux and infants. We selected randomized controlled trials of nonpharmacological and nonsurgical GERD therapies in otherwise healthy infants. Data were extracted from the selected articles regarding reflux, emetic episodes and intraesophageal pH. We identified 43 relevant studies, of which 10 met the selection criteria. These studies examined positioning, pacifier use, and feeding changes. Positioning at a 60 degree elevation in an infant seat was found to increase reflux compared with the prone position. No significant difference was shown between the flat and head-elevated prone positions. The impact of pacifier use on reflux frequency was equivocal and dependent on infant position. The protein content of formula was not found to affect reflux. Although no study demonstrated a significant reflux-reducing benefit of thickened infant foods compared with placebo, 1 study detected a significant benefit of formula thickened with carob bean gum compared with rice flour (pH<4 for 5% vs 8% of time). Another study showed that if supplementing with dextrose 5% water or dextrose 10% water, the lower-osmolality fluid was associated with less reflux. Many conservative measures commonly used to treat GERD in infants have no proven efficacy. Although thickened formulas do not appear to reduce measurable reflux, they may reduce vomiting. Further studies with clinical outcomes are needed to answer questions about efficacy definitively.
11814697	The transformation-competent artificial chromosome vector (TAC) system has been shown to be very useful for efficient gene isolation in Arabidopsis thaliana (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 (1998) 6535). To adapt the vector system for gene isolation in crops, two new TAC vectors and rice genomic libraries were developed. The new vectors pYLTAC17 and pYLTAC27 use the Bar gene and Hpt gene driven by the rice Act1 promoter as the plant selectable markers, respectively, and are suitable for transformation of rice and other grasses. Two representative genomic libraries (I and II) of an Indica rice variety Minghui63, a fertility restorer line for hybrid rice, were constructed with pYLTAC17 using different size classes of partially digested DNA fragments. Library I and library II consisted of 34,560 and 1.2 x 10(5) clones, with average insert sizes of approximately 77 and 39 kb, respectively. The genome coverage of the libraries I and II was estimated to be about 5 and 11 haploid genome equivalents, respectively. Clones of the library I were stored individually in ninety 384-well plates, and those of the library II were collected as bulked pools each containing 30-50 clones and stored in eight 384-well plates. A number of probes were used to hybridize high-density colony filters of the library I prepared by an improved replicating method and each detected 2-9 positive clones. A method for rapid screening of the library II by pooled colony hybridization was developed. A TAC clone having an 80 kb rice DNA insert was successfully transferred into rice genome via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The new vectors and the genomic libraries should be useful for gene cloning and genetic engineering in rice and other crops.
11816435	To study the morbidity of schistosomiasis mansoni in the highlands of Madagascar, a cross-sectional study examined the extent to which liver fibrosis occurred in a rural community. The Managil and the Cairo classification systems were used. A second purpose was to investigate the effect of the measurements of 2 different branches of the portal vein (either segmental or sub-segmental branches) on the resulting staging of morbidity using the Cairo classification system. In a rice farmer village, 656 inhabitants (95% of the total population) were parasitologically examined; 561 patients underwent sonographic work-up based on the Managil scoring system, and in 307 randomized patients the outer to outer diameters of both the segmental and the sub-segmental branches of the portal vein were measured and scored by the Cairo classification system. Overall prevalence of schistosomiasis mansoni in the study area in 1994 was 68.3%. Upon sonographic examination and scoring by the Managil system 23.4% of the population showed liver changes (Managil degree I/II/III, 20%/2.5%/0.9%). Measuring the sub-segmental branches only and scoring by the Cairo classification, 19% of the study population were found to have liver changes, none with severe fibrosis. By contrast, 82% were found to have liver changes (Cairo degree 1/2/3, 70%/11%/2%) when the segmental branches were measured. The diameters of the sub-segmental branches were about two-thirds of those of the segmental branches. Both the Cairo- and the Managil-examination protocols have pitfalls. Using the Cairo classification, a considerable systematic error in classifying morbidity is created by measuring different branches of the portal vein.
11817144	Method-performance studies were conducted for the notified revised analytical method of inabenfide in unpolished rice. Six laboratories analyzed unpolished rice spiked with 0.05 microgram/g of inabenfide in replicate. Mean recovery from rice was 85.0%. Repeatability relative standard deviation value was 4.2% and reproducibility relative standard deviation value was 8.1%. The detection limits were 0.002-0.01 microgram/g.
11817145	Method-performance studies were conducted for the notified revised analytical method of chinomethionat in agricultural products by interlaboratory study. Six laboratories analyzed unpolished rice, cabbage, squash, lettuce and orange spiked with 0.1 microgram/g of chinomethionat in replicate. Mean values of recovery from the 5 crops ranged from 90.2 to 100.5%. Repeatability relative standard deviations ranged from 4.4 to 7.7% and reproducibility relative standard deviations ranged from 10.9 to 17.1%. The detection limits were 0.003-0.012 microgram/g.
11817686	The concentrations of endogenous metal ions in liver, kidney, and bone tissues of female rats were measured after ingestion of cadmium-polluted rice (1.24 ppm as Cd) or cadmium-supplemented rice (1.24 and 4.96 ppm) for 2 or 4 mo. The metal accumulated mainly in the kidneys and in the liver. The concentration of cadmium (Cd) in the kidneys of rats fed a 1.24-ppm Cd-supplemented diet was significantly higher than in the Cd-polluted rice group. After 2 mo, the levels of iron and sodium in the liver were elevated in the Cd-polluted rice group, but not in the 1.24-ppm Cd-supplemented group, as compared to controls. The zinc concentration in the Cd-polluted rice group was decreased. The concentration of copper in the kidneys was increased for all Cd-containing diet groups. After 4 mo, the effects of Cd on essential metals in the Cd-polluted and 1.24-ppm Cd-supplemented groups had almost disappeared, although several metal ions in selected organs in the 4.96-ppm Cd-supplemented group showed more prominent changes than in the group exposed for 2 mo. These results suggest that the effects of short-term exposure to Cd on essential metal balance are stronger for rice-bound Cd than for inorganic Cd, although the absorption rate of Cd in Cd-polluted rice may be lower than that of cadmium chloride added to rice.
1181949	Among the cereal ingestants, rice, rye, wheat, corn and oats, provocative skin tests of patients differed according to age. Sensitivity to rice and oats was low for children and that to rice in particular was high for adults, suggesting a differential immunological response to rice allergens. Compared to patient grass pollen reactions, response to ingestants was noticeably lower. Cross-reactivity among ingestants was also lower, particularly between oats and the other cereals.
11820078	A study was conducted during 'Kuruvai' crop season from December 1992 to January 1993 in the rice fields of the Agricultural College and Research Institute, Madurai, Tamil Nadu to determine the influence of plant spacing and plant canopy on the populations of mosquito immatures. Three paddy varieties (ADT36, IR50 and IR20) were selected with two types of plant spacing, one with normal spacing (15 x 10 cm) and another wider (20 x 15 cm) than the normal spacing. Results showed that the field planted with normal spacing of paddy had significantly higher populations of culicine and anopheline immatures than the fields planted with wider spacing of paddy. The paddy varieties did not have any significant effect on the population of mosquito immatures. Light intensity, measured at the water surface using an illuminometer, was inversely related to the development of plant canopy and the results suggested that plant canopy does not inhibit oviposition by mosquitoes in the early stages of paddy growth, but it was responsible for the decline in the populations in the later stages of paddy growth. The plant spacing had a significant effect on the populations of chironomids and libellulids and other insects were not affected significantly.
11820089	In an entomological study, covering three biotopes like village, panikheti (wet rice cultivated land) and urban agglomeration, a total of 35 species of mosquitoes in eight genera were recorded in Jairampur area of Arunachal Pradesh. Two mosquito species--Orthopodomyia anopheloides and Tripteroides indicus were recorded for the first time in Arunachal Pradesh. Anopheles dirus and An. minimus, the two well-known malaria vectors were encountered in the study along with several potential vector species like An. annularis, An. culicifacies, An. maculatus group and An. philippinensis/nivipes. The diversity of mosquito species as well as the man-vector contact was maximum in the panikheti and minimum in the village biotope.
11820099	The study developed processes for quick-cooking rice meal products (QCRMP) paella and bringhe originally based on homestyle recipes. These QCRMPs consisted of basal quick-cooking waxy Malagkit Sungsong and non-waxy irrigated rice (IR) 42 Philippine rice cultivars, dehydrated vegetables, textured vegetable proteins (TVPs) as meat analogs, and seasonings. The rehydrated QCRMP paella and bringhe were found to be more acceptable than their conventionally prepared counterparts at 5% level of significance based on results of sensory acceptability evaluation by 50 consumer panelists. Improvement of the sensory attributes of the QCRMPs was ascribed to the use of alternate concentrates and powdered ingredients which imparted more intense flavors to the developed products than their fresh counterparts.
11821141	White spot disease (WSD) is caused by white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) and is an acutely fatal pandemic disease of crustaceans. It has resulted in massive losses to the shrimp-farming industry in Asia and has now spread to the Americas. This paper reports the problems and solutions associated with the design and execution of a longitudinal epidemiological study of shrimp (Penaeus monodon) health on farms practising a crop rotation of rice and shrimp in the Mekong Delta of Vietnam. The pre-sampling phase of the project involved selecting an appropriate site and sampling variables, obtaining permission and establishing the necessary laboratory and logistic facilities. At the start of the sampling phase, 40 farmers were selected and 32 of these were visited and interviewed. This resulted in the enrolment of only 17 farmers. A further seven had to be enrolled to obtain the maximum number of farmers that could be sampled by the study team. Compliance was enhanced through meetings, regular visits by senior members of the project team and ensuring that visits were punctual and that all information was treated confidentially. The production cycle began in January 1998 and lasted for approximately 5 months. An attempt was made to collect 500 post larvae (PL) before each pond was stocked to assess the health of the batch and to test for the presence of WSSV by one-step PCR. After stocking, the wild crustaceans also were sampled from the pond for PCR analyses. Information was collected on the management practices and samples of water, pond bottom, feed and shrimp collected throughout the production cycle. Water quality variables with predictable diurnal variation were sampled in the morning and afternoon, twice a week. Two months after stocking, the first outbreak of WSD occurred; subsequently, 18 farms conducted a complete emergency harvest due to the actual or perceived presence of a WSD outbreak. Detectable mortalities were reported from 19 farms, and moribund shrimps were collected from four of these for PCR and histological analyses.
11826293
11826299	The slender rice1 mutant (slr1) shows a constitutive gibberellin (GA) response phenotype. To investigate the mode of action of SLR1, we generated transgenic rice expressing a fusion protein consisting of SLR1 and green fluorescent protein (SLR1-GFP) and analyzed the phenotype of the transformants and the subcellular localization of GFP in vivo. SLR1-GFP worked in nuclei to repress the GA signaling pathway; its overproduction caused a dwarf phenotype. Application of GA(3) to SLR1-GFP overproducers induced GA actions such as shoot elongation, downregulation of GA 20-oxidase expression, and upregulation of SLR1 expression linked with the disappearance of the nuclear SLR1-GFP protein. We also performed domain analyses of SLR1 using transgenic plants overproducing different kinds of truncated SLR1 proteins. The analyses revealed that the SLR1 protein can be divided into four parts: a GA signal perception domain located at the N terminus, a regulatory domain for its repression activity, a dimer formation domain essential for signal perception and repression activity, and a repression domain at the C terminus. We conclude that GA signal transduction is regulated by the appearance or disappearance of the nuclear SLR1 protein, which is controlled by the upstream GA signal.
11826307	We characterized rice cDNA sequences for OsDr1 and OsDrAp1, which encode structural homologs of the eukaryotic general repressors Dr1 and DrAp1, respectively. OsDr1 and OsDrAp1 are nuclear proteins that interact with each other and with the TATA binding protein/DNA complex. In vitro and in vivo functional analyses showed that OsDrAp1 functions as a repressor, unlike its role in other eukaryotic systems, in which DrAp1 is a corepressor. OsDr1 and OsDrAp1 functioned together as a much stronger repressor than either one alone. Functional dissections revealed that the N-terminal histone-fold domains of OsDr1 and OsDrAp1 were necessary and sufficient for their repression and protein-protein interaction with each other. The unique glutamine- and proline-rich domain of OsDr1 had no repression activity. The basic amino acid-rich region and an arginine and glycine repeat domain of OsDrAp1 enhanced its repression activity. Thus, although OsDr1 and OsDrAp1 function as repressors, the functions of the two components are reversed compared with those of their nonplant counterparts.
11826308	Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are the central components of eukaryotic cell cycle regulation. Phosphorylation of CDKs at a conserved threonine residue is required for their full activity and is mediated by a CDK-activating kinase (CAK). The CAK R2 from rice belongs to those CAKs that phosphorylate not only CDKs but also the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II. We showed that R2 is a nuclear protein with increased expression and increased CTD kinase activity in S-phase. Increasing R2 abundance through a transgenic approach accelerated S-phase progression and overall growth rate in suspension cells. In planta, the CTD kinase activity of R2 was induced by a growth-promoting signal. R2 regulation, therefore, may constitute a plant-specific adaptive mechanism that is used to adjust the rate of cell proliferation in response to a changing environment.
11827296	The toxic effects of waters collected from irrigation channels in a Mediterranean wetland (Albufera Natural Park, Valencia, Spain) were tested with the Microtox assay and compared with six pollution indices (PIs) defined from analytical parameters. Chemical oxygen demand (COD), biological oxygen demand (BOD), nutrients, heavy metals and pesticides were measured. The bioassay result (concentrations of the water sample (% V/V) that reduced light emission to 10%, 20% and 50%, EC10, EC20 and EC50, respectively (ECs)) was compared with the PIs. This comparison has demonstrated a general agreement between ECs and PIs, except in the case of irrigation channels affected by herbicides used in rice farming (molinate and thiobencarb). No pronounced inhibition was detected in the bioluminescence in relation to the eutrophic parameters in the irrigation waters for EC50 values, indicating that this parameter does not suffice to detect eutrophic waters. Data derived from irrigation water pollution and bioassay were assembled by multivariate statistical techniques (principal component analysis). These components were associated with various contamination sources.
11827301	Newborns in rural Bilbeis, Egypt were followed to 1-year of age to document the incidence and risk factors associated with the development of fecal IgE. Factors associated with increased fecal IgE included infants aged 3-6 months (relative risk (RR) = 3.28, 95 per cent confidence intervals (CI) = 1.03-13.60, p < 0.05) and mother being vaccinated antenatally (RR = 2.17, CI - 1.01-4.61, p < 0.05). Decreased fecal IgE was observed with consumption of rice (RR = 0.37, CI = 0.12-0.94, p < 0.05), biscuits (RR = 0.43, CI = 0.15-0.99, p < 0.05), potatoes (RR = 0.39, CI = 0.11-0.98, p < 0.05), and fruits and vegetables (RR = 0.20, CI = 0.02-0.80, p < 0.05). After multivariate adjustment, increased risk was observed with consumption of milk pudding (RR = 7.48, CI = 1.54-36.20, p < 0.05) and wet-nursed infants (RR = 2.77, CI = 1.17-6.54, p < 0.05). Infants who were completely breastfed (RR = 0.13, CI = 0.02-0.68, p < 0.05) and infants' family owning a television set (RR = 0.29, CI = 0.12-0.67, p < 0.05) were less likely to develop fecal IgE. Our findings indicate that prelacteal feeding with certain foods, early supplementation of breastfeeding, and sociodemographic factors are associated with increased fecal IgE.
11828021	KNOX homeodomain (HD) proteins encoded by KNOTTED1-like homeobox genes (KNOX genes) are thought to work as switches for cells to change from an indeterminate to a determinate state, although their direct functions are not clear. In the process of isolating KNOX genes from rice, we found that one gene, named OSH3, has two amino acid substitutions in three of the invariant amino acid residues in the HD of KNOX proteins. These amino acid substitutions are not universal in rice: two of the cultivars from the Indica variety of rice do not carry those substitutions but two of the cultivars from Japonica variety do. We tested the effect of these amino acid substitutions on their ability to form dimers and to induce abnormal morophologies when overexpressed in transgenic plants. We found that OSH3 without those substitutions can form dimers and can induce an abnormal phenotype in overexpression studies, and that OSH3 with those amino acid substitutions is defective in both. Based on these observations, we concluded that OSH3 from two of the cultivars from the Japonica variety could have lost its original function, or could have acquired a novel function by modifying the action of HD, or both.
11828031	In order to clarify the evolutionary relationship of floral organs between grasses and dicots, we expressed OsMADS3, a rice (Oryza sativa L.) AGAMOUS(AG) ortholog, in rice plants under the control of an Actin1 promoter. As a consequence of the ectopic expression of the OsMADS3, lodicules were homeotically transformed into stamens. In total, the transformation of lodicules to staminoid organs was observed in 18 out of 26 independent transgenic lines. In contrast to the almost complete transformation occurring in lodicules, none of the transgenic plants exhibited any morphological alterations in the palea or the lemma. Our results confirmed the prediction that the lodicule is an equivalent of a dicot petal and that the ABC model can be applied to rice at least for organ specification in lodicules and stamens.
11828336	Multiple rice body formation is a complication of chronic bursitis. Although it resembles synovial chondromatosis clinically and on imaging, the literature suggests that analysis of radiographic and MR appearances should allow discrimination. We report the imaging findings in a 41-year-old man presenting with rice body formation in chronic subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis. We found that the signal intensity of the rice bodies is helpful in making the diagnosis.
11829637	A method using a deuterated surrogate of the avicide 3-chloro-p-toluidine hydrochloride (CPTH) was developed to quantify the CPTH residues in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and breast muscle tissues in birds collected in CPTH-baited sunflower and rice fields. This method increased the range of a previous surrogate/gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy method from 0-2 to 0-20 microg/g in tissue samples and greatly simplified the extraction procedure. The modified method also sought to increase recoveries over a range of matrix effects introduced by analyzing tissues from birds collected in the field, where the GI tract contents would be affected by varying diet. The new method was used to determine the CPTH concentration in GI tract samples fortified with CPTH-treated rice bait to simulate the consumption of varying amounts of treated bait by two nontargeted bird species, pigeon (Columbia livia) and house sparrow (Passer domesticus). The new method was then used to examine the CPTH concentrations in the gizzard contents of the targeted bird species, red-winged black bird (Agelaius phoeniceus) and brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater), that were collected after feeding at a treated bait site. The method proved sufficiently sensitive to quantify CPTH in the breast muscle tissues and the gizzard contents of red-winged blackbirds and brown-headed cowbirds during an operational baiting program. The levels of CPTH determined for these birds in both tissue samples were determined to be highly correlated. The appearance of CPTH in the breast muscle tissue immediately after feeding was not anticipated. The potential secondary hazard posed by the targeted birds to potential scavengers and predators was also evaluated.
11830946	Distribution of Candida species was investigated by examining 245 samples from skin lesions and nails. The isolates were identified using standard laboratory methods including germ tube test, micromorphology of colonies on rice agar, the commercial kit, saccharide assimilation and fermentation tests. Eight species of Candida were identified: C. albicans accounted for 56.4% of the isolates, C. parapsilosis 29.1, C. tropicalis 7.8, C. pulcherrima 2.9, C. guilliermondii 1.5, C. krusei and C. zeylanoides for 0.9% each, and C. robusta for 0.5%. The factors significantly associated with colonization were prolonged antibiotic therapy, parenteral nutrition, low birth body mass of infants, intubation, duration of stay in hospital, indwelling intravenous catheter, malignancies, diabetes, surgery, and obesity.
11831132	As a rule, the treatment of the overuse syndrome in the locomotor's system is non-surgical, and surgical treatment is needed on rare occasions. Non-surgical treatment should start as soon as possible. The first step is to half or modify sports activities. The treatment includes administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, physical therapy, stretching exercises, and the strengthening of affected muscles. The programme should be adapted to the patient, taking into account the localization and the degree of the injury, as well as his/her sport or work-related activities. The RICE therapeutic programme is important in the treatment of overuse syndromes, especially within the first 72 hours from the occurrence of first symptoms, as it shortens the duration of convalescence for as much as 50%-70%. Beside stabilisation of the joint with optimal loading of antagonistic muscles, stretching exercises have the leading position in prevention and treatment of overuse injuries. During rehabilitation, it is necessary to change activity, its duration and intensity. When a person successfully resumes its sports activities with full load, the rehabilitation is considered completed. No surgical or non-surgical method can warrant a hundred percent recovery for any localization of overuse injury. Prevention, education, and close co-operation between the physician, athlete, and the coach is therefore crucial and is receiving increasing attention.
11832481	Expression of alpha-amylase genes in cereals is induced by both gibberellin (GA) and sugar starvation. In a transient expression assay, a 105-bp sugar response sequence (SRS) in the promoter of a sugar starvation highly inducible rice alpha-amylase gene, alphaAmy3, was shown previously to confer sugar response and to enhance the activity of the rice Act1 promoter in rice protoplasts. A 230-bp SRS-like sequence was also found in the promoter of another sugar starvation highly inducible rice alpha-amylase gene, alphaAmy8. The alphaAmy8 SRS contains a GA response sequence and was designated as alphaAmy8 SRS/GARS. In the present study, a transgenic approach was employed to characterize the function of the alpha-amylase gene SRSs in rice. We found that the alphaAmy3 SRS significantly enhances the endogenous expression pattern of the Act1 promoter in various rice tissues throughout their developmental stages. By contrast, the alphaAmy8 SRS/GARS significantly enhances Act1 promoter activity only in embryos and endosperms of germinating rice seeds. A minimal promoter fused to the alphaAmy8 SRS/GARS is specifically active in rice embryo and endosperm and is subject to sugar repression and GA induction in rice embryos. This sugar repression was found to override GA induction of alphaAmy8 SRS/GARS activity. Our study demonstrates that the alpha-amylase transcriptional enhancers contain cis-acting elements capable of enhancing endogenous expression patterns or activating sugar-sensitive, hormone-responsive, tissue-specific, and developmental stage-dependent expression of promoters in transgenic rice. These enhancers may facilitate the design of highly active and tightly regulated composite promoters for monocot transformation and gene expression. Our study also reveals the existence of cross-talk between the sugar and GA signaling pathways in cereals and provides a system for analyzing the underlying molecular mechanisms involved.
11833404	This study extended previous work of Rice, Leonard, and Carter [AJOT, 52(8), 621-626] and examined the relationship between grip and pinch strengths and the forces produced while accessing common household containers in healthy, elderly persons. Forty-two women and 9 men 60 years of age and older were assigned randomly to one of four order groups in a counterbalanced, repeated-measures design. Grip strength was measured via a dynamometer and pinch strength via a pinch meter. The forces required to access six common household containers were measured with force sensing resistors applied to each container. Data analysis included Pearson product-moment correlations between the dependent variables of grip and pinch strength and force produced on the containers. Analyses of variance were used to determine differences by gender on the dependent measures and order of presentation of containers. A fair relationship (r = .31 to .44) was found between grip and pinch strength and the ability to open three containers. Little or no relationship was found between grip and pinch strength and the ability to open the remaining three containers (r = -.03 to .25). Significant gender differences existed on overall strength and the force used to access two of the six containers. No order effects were found. Strong relationships did not exist between the grip and pinch strength and the amount of force the elderly participants used to open the containers, which is similar to what Rice et al. found for younger persons. The participants appeared to use a greater proportion of their available strength when accessing the containers than did their younger counterparts previously studied. Further research is needed to determine at what level of weakness one would expect to see performance deficits in common daily occupations.
11834077	The aim of this work was the optimization of some procedures usually used in the analysis of zearalenone (ZEA) in corn and other cereals by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with photodiode array and/or fluorescence detection. The comparison of five extraction solvents is presented. Three solid-phase extraction cartridges (C-18, silica, Florisil) and immuno-affinity columns were also compared to obtain the best recovery of the mycotoxin with the minimal presence of co-extractives in the chromatograms. Mixtures of methanol-1% aqueous NaCl (80.20 or 60:40 v/v) were the best extraction solvents. Florisil provided higher recovery of ZEA than C-18, and silica proved unsuitable. The immuno-affinity column was very efficient in cleaning the extracts, but its sample capacity was lower than that of SPE columns due to saturation. The mobile phase (methanol-water 80:20 v/v) gave a low retention time for ZEA (approximately 5 min), high sensitivity and acceptable separation between this mycotoxin and alpha-zearalenol. The optimized protocol is straightforward, provides high ZEA recoveries in spiked corn (mean 102.4%), has an acceptable sensitivity and has a lack of interference with fluorescence detection (detection limit 4 ng ZEA g(-1) corn). The photodiode array detector was useful, except at very low ZEA levels, to confirm the identity of the mycotoxin. The method was applied to search for ZEA accumulation in corn, wheat and rice grains inoculated with selected strains of Fusarium graminearum, F. oxysporum and method was applied to search for ZEA accumulation in corn, wheat and rice grains inoculated with selected strains of Fusarium graminearum, F. oxysporum and F. culmorum.
11834339	A case study of injury to the feet of children from Sri Lanka due to burning husk is discussed. The hot husk causes deep burns on the dorsum of the feet and spares the plantar surface. The contractures caused by the burns lead to severe deformity, and are very resistant to treatment. These burn injuries need to be treated early, in specialized centers, to avoid long term complications. Health education of the public plays an important role in the prevention of these injuries.
11834923	For the past decade, nutritionists have focused on consensus guidelines (National Cholesterol Education Program) to reduce dietary saturated fatty acids, cholesterol, and excess body weight. However, researchers are looking at other ways that diet may influence the progression of cardiovascular disease, including lipoprotein oxidation, thrombosis progression, cardiac arrhythmia, and medication interaction. Some areas of investigation include the role of various fatty acids and supplements-in the form of vitamins, minerals, herbs, and functional foods-as well as traditional foods and diets from other parts of the world. This review outlines some of the new and relevant nutritional approaches including: specific fatty acids (omega 3, monounsaturated and trans fatty acids), dietary supplements (herbs, antioxidants, vitamins C and E, Coenzyme Q10, B vitamins and homocysteine, L-arginine, Chinese red yeast rice, garlic, soy, flax seed, and dietary fiber), food and drink (tea, nuts, plant-sterol and stanol-ester-containing spreads, alcohol, and grapefruit juice), and the Mediterranean diet. (c) 2000 by CHF, Inc.
11838287	The mode of action of acibenzolar-S-methyl (BTH) was investigated against sheath blight of rice and its pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani. BTH exhibited limited fungitoxicity against R solani, in the form of reduced mycelial growth, hyphal browning and sclerotia formation. Parasite fitness of mycelia and sclerotia formed on BTH-amended media was also reduced. When applied as soil drench or foliar spray, BTH inhibited both disease development on inoculated sheaths and its spread to the younger sheaths. The degree of protection against sheath blight increased with increase in duration between BTH application and inoculation. The curative effect of BTH was poor. When applied through roots a protective effect of BTH was visible even with only a 1-h interval between application and inoculation. However, in the case of foliar application, protective effect was recorded only when the gap between application and inoculation was 24 h. BTH reduced the frequency of penetration by R solani, colonization of host tissue and spread of the hyphae from primary lesions to form secondary lesions. BTH induced swelling of hyphal tips on the sheath surface, formation of papillae, browning of penetrated epidermal cells and degeneration of intra-cellular hyphae colonizing epidermal and mesophyll cells. Therefore, the protective effect of BTH against sheath blight was due to combination of its host defence-inducing activity and its adverse effect on growth and vigor (parasite fitness) of the pathogen.
11838375	In this study, an indica variety Zhai Ye Qing 8 (ZYQ8) and a japonica variety Jing Xi 17(JX17) and their double haploid (DH) population were used. Sheath blight resistance of the DH population and their parents was investigated using a syringe inoculation method. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis was undertaken based on a constructed molecular linkage map of this population in Hangzhou and Hainandao respectively. A total of four sheath blight resistant QTLs (qSBR-2, qSBR-3, qSBR-7 and qSBR-11) were identified, and located on chromosome 2, 3, 7 and 11, respectively. Resistant alleles of qSBR-2, qSBR-3, and qSBR-7 were derived from the resistant parent ZYQ8, whereas resistant allele of qSBR-11 from susceptible parent JX17. qSBR-2, qSBR-3 and qSBR-7 were detected both in Hangzhou and Hainandao, whereas qSBR-11 was detected only in Hangzhou. Sheath blight response was significantly correlated with culm length and heading date in Hangzhou's test. Among the QTLs for culm length and heading date, only qCL-3 for culm length, was in the same chromosome region of qSBR-3, the other QTLs were not linked to the QTLs for sheath blight resistance.
11838376	The developmental behavior of gene expression for transparency of rice (TR) was analyzed from two-year experimental data at different filling stages by using both conditional and unconditional analysis methods for quantitative traits of seeds in cereal crops. It was revealed that the gene expression was most active for the performance of TR at the middle and late filling stages (8-21 d after flowering). The differences of expression at different environments for triploid endosperm nuclear genes, cytoplasmic genes and diploid maternal plant nuclear genes were found for the performance of TR. The phenomena of which some genetic effects were spasmodically expressible were detected among filling stages of rice. Because of the higher additive and cytoplasmic effects along with their interaction effects for TR at the filling stages, the better improving effects for this trait could be expected by selection in rice breeding. Some parents such as Zhenan 3 and 1391 were better than others for improving TR.
11840174	Cereal grains and their products provide around 30% of total energy intake in British adults, (much more than any of the other major food groups). Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the largest single cause of death in Britain and many other Western countries. This review examines the question whether there is a relation between cereal consumption and CHD. Several of the nutrients in cereals have known potential for reducing risk factors for CHD: the linoleic acid, fibre, vitamin E, selenium and folate. Cereals also contain phytoestrogens of the lignan family and several phenolic acids with antioxidant properties. Processing generally reduces the content of these nutrients and bioprotective substances. Although cereals at the farm gate are very low in salt, processed cereal foods, eg bread and some breakfast cereals, are high-salt foods and thus could contribute to raising blood pressure. Human experiments have clearly shown that oat fibre tends to lower plasma total and LDL cholesterol but wheat fibre does not. Rice bran and barley may also lower cholesterol but most people do not eat enough barley to have an effect. Cereal foods with low glycaemic index such as pasta and oats are beneficial for people with diabetes and might lower plasma lipids. Between 1996 and 2001 an accumulation of five very large cohort studies in the USA, Finland and Norway have all reported that subjects consuming relatively large amounts of whole grain cereals have significantly lower rates of CHD. This confirms an earlier report from a small British cohort. The protective effect does not seem to be due to cholesterol-lowering. While cohort studies have shown this consistent protective effect of whole grain cereals, there has been (only one) randomised controlled secondary prevention trial of advice to eat more cereal fibre. In this there was no reduction of the rate of reinfarction. The trial had some weaknesses, eg there were eight different diets, compliance was not checked objectively, and duration was for only 2 y. It appears valid to make health claims (as now permitted by the US FDA) that whole grain cereal foods and oat meal or bran may reduce the risk of CHD.
11840646	Among Indica rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L. cvs.) that belong to the aus ecotype from the tropical Bengal region, where the amount of ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation in the solar radiation is relatively great, Marich-bati cultivar has exhibited resistance to UV-B radiation, while Surjamkhi cultivar appeared to be less resistant. We have examined the susceptibility to cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) induction by UV-B radiation and the ability to photorepair CPDs using these two cultivars. UV-B radiation produced similar dimer levels in the leaves of the two cultivars. In contrast, the ability to photorepair CPDs in the UV-sensitive Surjamkhi cultivar was lower than that in the UV-resistant Marich-bati cultivar. These results were similar to our previous data, namely, that a UV-sensitive Japanese rice cultivar (Oryza sativa L. cv. Norin 1) cultivated in the moderate climate of Japan is deficient in its ability to photorepair CPDs. Thus, these results suggest that a strong correlation exists between the sensitivity to UV-B and the photorepair deficiency, and that a low ability in CPD photorepair may be a principal factor in determining the UV-B sensitivity in rice plants.
11842136
11843304	The AVR1-CO39 gene that came from a Magnaporthe grisea isolate from weeping lovegrass controls avirulence on the rice cultivar CO39. AVR1-CO39 was not present in the genome of the rice-infecting M. grisea isolate Guyll from French Guyana, suggesting that the gene had been deleted. Molecular analysis of the deletion breakpoints in the AVR1-CO39 locus revealed the presence of a truncated copy of a previously unknown retrotransposon at the left-hand border. At the right-hand border was a truncated copy of another repetitive element that is present at multiple locations in the genome of Guyll. The structures of avr1-CO39 loci were further examined in 45 rice-infecting isolates collected in Brazil, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Mali, and the Philippines. Most isolates showed no hybridization signal with the AVR1-CO39 probe and had the same locus structure as Guyll. Some isolates from Japan showed a signal with the AVR1-CO39 probe, but the region specifying avirulence activity was rearranged. These findings suggest that widespread virulence to 'CO39' among rice-infecting M. grisea isolates is due to ancestral rearrangements at the AVR1-CO39 locus that may have occurred early in the evolution of pathogenicity to rice.
11843402	Toxigenic isolates of Fusarium sporotrichioides were tested for the production of type A trichothecenes (T-2 toxin, HT-2 toxin, diacetoxyscirpenol and neosolaniol) when grown on three substrates (maize, rice and wheat) under various conditions of temperature and water activity in the laboratory for 3 weeks. Trichothecenes were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection, after derivatisation with coumarin-3-carbonyl chloride. This is the first time this analytical method has been applied to an extensive study of trichothecene accumulation. With minor exceptions, greater trichothecene production occurred when samples were incubated at 20 degrees C and moistened with 35% water (water activity 0.990) although incubation conditions affected the substrates studied in different ways. No correlation between the different pairs of trichothecenes was found except for neosolaniol and diacetoxyscirpenol (r=0.56). Principal component analysis results show that the data points can be grouped in three rough clusters related to cereal type, which points out that the composition of these cereals can influence the production of type A trichothecenes.
11846639	Although workers in refractory ceramic fibers (RCF) manufacturing facilities have experienced no elevations in lung cancer or mesothelioma rates, the historical experience of asbestos together with animal studies of RCF have led to ongoing studies of the respiratory health of RCF workers. We have compared lung cancer and mesothelioma in the accumulated mortality experience of a cohort of male RCF production workers (Lemasters et al., 2001, submitted for publication) to that which would have been expected if RCF had a carcinogenic potency similar to that of various forms of asbestos. To accomplish this, we used risk models recently formalized by Hodgson and Darnton (2000, Ann. Occup. Hyg. 41, 13-36) for asbestos cohorts together with the RCF exposure measurements and historical reconstructions of Rice and colleagues (1997, Appl. Occup. Environ. Hyg. 12, 54-61). Deaths from lung cancer in the RCF cohort are statistically significantly below that which would be expected if RCF had the potency of either crocidolite or amosite. The mortality is also lower than would be expected if RCF had the potency of chrysotile, but the difference is not statistically significant. For mesothelioma, the anticipated numbers of deaths under hypotheses of asbestos-like potency are too small to be rejected by the zero cases seen in the RCF cohorts. The current epidemiologic studies do not rule out risk, but they clearly do rule out lung cancer risks like those of crocidolite or amosite. The residual uncertainty justifies ongoing workplace surveillance.
11846882	In early plant embryogenesis, the determination of cell fate in the protodermal cell layer is considered to be the earliest event in radial pattern formation. To elucidate the mechanisms of epidermal cell fate determination and radial pattern formation in early rice embryogenesis, we have isolated a GL2-type homeobox gene Roc1 (Rice outermost cell-specific gene1), which is specifically expressed in the protoderm (epidermis). In early rice embryogenesis, cell division occurs randomly and the morphologically distinct layer structure of the protoderm cannot be observed until the embryo reaches more than 100 microm in length. Nonetheless, in situ hybridization analyses revealed that specific expression of Roc1 in the outermost cells is established shortly after fertilization, much earlier than protoderm differentiation. In the regeneration process from callus, the Roc1 gene is also expressed in the outermost cells of callus in advance of tissue and organ differentiation, and occurs independently of whether the cells will differentiate into epidermis in the future or not. Furthermore, this cell-specific Roc1 expression could be induced flexibly in the newly produced outermost cells when we cut the callus. These findings suggest that the expression of Roc1 in the outermost cells may be dependent on the positional information of cells in the embryo or callus prior to the cell fate determination of the protoderm (epidermis). Furthermore, the Roc1 expression is downregulated in the inner cells of ligule, which have previously been determined as protodermal cells, also suggesting that the Roc1 expression is position dependent and that this position dependent Roc1 expression is important also in post-embryonic protoderm (epidermis) differentiation.
11848179	We determined the sources of nutrient intake of 59 men and 60 women in two rural towns in the Miyagi Prefecture, a northeastern part of Japan. Four 3-day food records were collected in four seasons within a year. The total dishes and recipes were classified into 197 items. Their percent contributions to the total population consumption of energy and 14 nutrients were calculated as the sum of the nutrient intake contributed by a given dish or recipe divided by the total nutrient intake from all the items. Rice was the largest contributor for energy (29.8%), protein (13.0%) and carbohydrates (45.3%). Miso soup, as a dish, was a leading contributor (7.1%) for fat. The largest contributor for sodium, calcium, carotene, vitamin C were miso soup (17.1%), milk (16.6%), spinach (23.6%), green tea (13.6%), respectively. The result suggests that the examination of nutrient sources based on dishes and recipes, rather than on food materials, may be useful in characterizing the dietary patterns of populations.
11848577	Decimal reduction times (D-values) at cooking and autoclaving temperatures (80 to 120 degrees C) of spores of Bacillus cereus ATCC 1479-8 in rice and milk (13% wt/vol) supplemented with nisin (25 microg/ml) were evaluated. The mean D-values at 97.8 degrees C in cooked white rice, phosphate buffer (pH 7.0), and rice water (pH 6.7) were 3.62, 1,99, and 1.34 min, respectively. From 80 to 100 degrees C, the mean reduction in D-values due to the addition of nisin to milk was 40%. The D-value at 110 degrees C was approximately 0.86 min for milk (control) and milk with nisin. The z-values ranged from 7.32 degrees C (phosphate buffer) to 10.37 degrees C (milk control).
11848578	The growth kinetics of germinated cells from activated spores of Bacillus cereus in cooked white rice and in milk were evaluated at different temperatures for control samples and for samples with 25 microg of nisin per ml added. Nisin was applied in the form of Nisaplin (10(6) IU/g), which contained 25,000 microg of nisin per g. The length of the lag phase for cooked white rice controls was 120 h at 10 degrees C, 8 h at 25 degrees C, and 2.5 h at 33 degrees C. The generation times for cooked rice were 327.7 min at 10 degrees C, 59.0 min at 25 degrees C, and 42.3 min at 33 degrees C; those for milk without nisin were 297.0 min at 20 degrees C, 31.2 min at 30 degrees C, 28.6 min at 35 degrees C, and 33.7 min at 40 degrees C; and those for milk with nisin added were 277.2 min at 20 degrees C, 66.9 min at 30 degrees C, and 66.4 min at 35 degrees C. No development of B. cereus was observed for milk with nisin added at 40 degrees C for 12 h, in which germinated cells decreased by a decimal reduction time (D) of 4.7 h. A temperature of 45 degrees C was shown to be harmful to B. cereus, decreasing the germinated cells in both formulations with D-values of 4.3 to 4.6 h. Similar inhibition of cell growth at 40 degrees C was not observed with lower nisin concentrations.
11849047	Molinate is a thiocarbamate herbicide used in the rice industry for over 25 years, and regulatory reports have shown that administration of molinate results in reproductive toxicity in male rats. Previous in vitro studies indicate that molinate undergoes oxidative metabolism, forming reactive electrophilic intermediates capable of undergoing nucleophilic addition by protein nucleophiles. On the basis of in vitro studies, carbamylation of an active site serine residue in Hydrolase A has been proposed to be the mechanism responsible for the observed testicular toxicity. The experiments presented here utilize hemoglobin to characterize covalent protein modifications produced in vivo by molinate. Rats were dosed intraperitoneally with molinate as a function of exposure duration. Examination of globin from molinate-treated rats by HPLC demonstrated a new peak in the isolated samples and, when collected and analyzed using MALDI-TOF MS, revealed a 126 Da increase in mass relative to the native beta(3) chain. Digestion of the globin using Glu-C and analysis by MALDI-TOF MS revealed two modified peptide fragments at m/z 2743 and 4985 consistent with a 126 Da increase to peptide fragments [122-146] and [102-146] in the unmodified beta(2) and beta(3) chains of globin. Using selected reaction monitoring LC/MS/MS, S-hexahydro-1H-azepine-1-carbonyl cysteine (HHAC-Cys) was identified in the globin hydrolysates isolated from the molinate-treated rats, but not in the control samples, and the quantity of adduct exhibited a cumulative dose response. These experiments demonstrate the ability of molinate to covalently modify proteins in vivo in a dose dependent manner. For hemoglobin this modification was a carbamylation at Cys-125 similar to the modification produced by disulfiram and N,N-diethyldithiocarbamate. The ability of molinate to covalently modify cysteine residues provides a potential mechanism to account for enzyme inhibition following molinate exposure and suggests that enzymes with cysteine residues in their active site may be inhibited by molinate.
11849359	To evaluate the importance of garlic for fermentation of a Thai fish product, and to differentiate among garlic-/inulin-fermenting lactic acid bacteria (LAB) at strain level. Som-fak was prepared by fermentation of a mixture of fish, salt, rice, sucrose and garlic. pH decreased to 4.5 in 2 days, but omitting garlic resulted in a lack of acidification. LAB were predominant and approximately one third of 234 isolated strains fermented garlic and inulin (the carbohydrate reserve in garlic). These strains were identified as Lactobacillus pentosus and Lact. plantarum. Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis revealed one major RAPD type (29 strains) isolated from all stages of fermentation. Garlic was essential for acidification of som-fak and garlic-fermenting strains constituted a significant, homogeneous part of the LAB flora. The present study indicates the role of fructans (garlic/inulin) as carbohydrate sources for LAB. Fructan fermenters may have several biotechnological applications, for example, as probiotics.
11849982	A polychromatic action spectrum for the induction of an ultraviolet-absorbing/screening mycosporine-like amino acid (MAA) has been determined in a filamentous and heterocystous nitrogen-fixing rice-field cyanobacterium, Anabaena sp. High-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) studies revealed the presence of only one type of MAA, which was identified as shinorine, a bisubstituted MAA containing both glycine and serine groups having a retention time at 2.8 min and an absorption maximum at 334 nm. Exposure of cultures to simulated solar radiation in combination with various cut-off filters (WG 280, 295, 305, 320, 335, 345, GG 400, 420, 455, 475, OG 515, 530, 570, RG 645, 665 and a broad-band filter, UG 11) clearly revealed that the induction of the MAA takes place only in the UV range. Photosynthetic active radiation (PAR) had no significant impact on MAA induction. The ratio of the absorption at 334 nm (shinorine) to 665 nm (chlorophyll a) and the action spectrum also showed the induction of MAA to be UV dependent peaking in the UV-B range at around 290 nm. The results indicate that the studied cyanobacterium, Anabaena sp. may protect itself from deleterious short wavelength solar radiation by its ability to synthesize a mycosporine-like amino acid in response to UV-B radiation and thereby screen the negative effects of UV-B.
11851812	To clone genes of Bacillus subtilis encoding peptides that inhibit the growth of Xanthomonas orzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). A 3.1-kb DNA fragment from B. subtilis SO113 encoding peptides that inhibit the growth of Xoo (anti-Xoo, showing an inhibition zone) was isolated from a plasmid library of B. subtilis 6 GM15. Sequence analysis revealed that it contained three complete open reading frames (ORFs): ybcO, ybcS and a novel ORF designated ybcPQ. Deleting the last 96 bp of ybcS from the plasmid eliminated the anti-Xoo activity, suggesting that ybcS is required for producing the anti-Xoo activity. However, no anti-Xoo activity could be detected for the plasmid with ybcS alone. Further analysis showed that ybcO, at least, was also required to obtain the anti-Xoo activity. A fragment of B. subtilis has been cloned that expresses an anti-Xoo activity that requires ybcS and ybcO. These genes could be useful for the genetic engineering of resistance to rice bacterial diseases and for the design of new anti-Xoo biocontrol agents.
11851910	The biochemical and cell cycle-dependent properties of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (OsPCNA) and flap endonuclease-1 (OsFEN-1) were characterized from rice (Oryza sativa). OsPCNA was physically associated with OsFEN-1 and increased the flap-endonuclease activity of OsFEN-1 by 2.5-fold. Northern and Western blotting analysis revealed that OsPCNA and OsFEN-1 were present in meristematic tissues such as cultured cells, shoot apical meristem and root apical meristem. No expression was detected in the mature leaves, although they were exposed to UV. Both of these proteins were localized in the nuclei of the interphase cells including G1, S and G2, and in the nuclear region at telophase. The distribution patterns of plant PCNA and FEN-1 in meiotic cell progression were investigated using microsporocytes of lily (Lilium longiflorum cv. Hinomoto). During the leptotene to pachytene stages, PCNA and FEN-1 were localized in the nuclear region. The florescence gradually disappeared from diplotene to metaphase I. Interestingly, signals for PCNA formed 10-20 intense spots at leptotene. The number of spots decreased to 1-5 at zygotene and finally to 1 at pachytene. The roles of OsPCNA and OsFEN-1 in mitotic and meiotic cell cycles are discussed.
11852637	Larvicidal activity against the beet armyworm, Spodoptera exigua (Hübner), was measured after topical treatment for a series of N-tert-butyl-dibenzoylhydrazines having various substituents in the benzoyl (A-ring) moiety closer to the tert-butyl group, the other benzoyl (B-ring) moiety being unsubstituted. The effects of substituents on the larvicidal activity were analyzed using the classical quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) procedure. Introduction of hydrophobic substituents with a small volume into any position was favourable to activity. The existence of electron-withdrawing substituents at ortho positions was also favourable to activity. For multi-substituted compounds, physico-chemically unknown unfavourable factors were suggested to remain after separating common substituent effects derived from QSAR for mono-substituted analogues. With the exception of the unsubstituted compound RH-5849, the effect of substituents in the A-ring moiety on the larvicidal activity was similar to those found with the lepidopteran rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker). The larvicidal activity of RH-5849 against S exigua was significantly lower than the value predicted from the correlation between activities against S exigua and C suppressalis. Topical treatment with piperonyl butoxide, a synergist inhibiting oxidative metabolism, slightly enhanced the larvicidal activity of RH-5849 against S exigua.
11853489	The aroma compounds present in cooked brown rice of the three varieties Improved Malagkit Sungsong (IMS), Basmati 370 (B 370), and Khaskhani (KK), and of the variety Indica (German supermarket sample), were identified on the basis of aroma extract dilution analyses (AEDA). A total of 41 odor-active compounds were identified, of which eleven are reported for the first time as rice constituents. 2-Amino acetophenone (medicinal, phenolic), which was up to now unknown in rice aroma, exhibited the highest flavor dilution (FD) factor among the 30 to 39 odor-active compounds detected in all four varieties. 2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline, exhibiting an intense popcorn-like aroma-note, was confirmed as a further key aroma constituent in IMS, B 370, and KK, but was not important in Indica. Differences in the FD factors between the varieties were found for the previously unknown rice aroma compound 3-hydroxy-4,5-dimethyl-2(5H)-furanone (Sotolon; seasoning-like), which was higher in B 370 than in IMS and KK. In IMS, a yet unknown, spicy smelling component with a very high FD factor could be detected, which contributed with lower FD factors to the overall aromas of B 370 and KK, and was not present in Indica. The latter variety, which was available on the German market, differed most in its overall aroma from the three Asian brown rices.
11853540	A novel glutathione S-transferase (GST)-based pyrethroid resistance mechanism was recently identified in Nilaparvata lugens [Vontas, Small and Hemingway (2001) Biochem. J. 357, 65-72]. To determine the nature of GSTs involved in conferring this resistance, the GSTs from resistant and susceptible strains of N. lugens were partially purified by anion exchange and affinity chromatography. The majority of peroxidase activity, previously correlated with resistance, was confined to the fraction that bound to the affinity column, which was considerably elevated in the resistant insects. A cDNA clone encoding a GST (nlgst1-1) - the first reported GST sequence from Hemiptera with up to 54% deduced amino-acid identity with other insect class I GSTs - was isolated from a pyrethroid-resistant strain. Northern analysis showed that nlgst1-1 was overexpressed in resistant insects. nlgst1-1 was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and characterized. The ability of the recombinant protein to bind to the S-hexylglutathione affinity matrix, its substrate specificities and its immunological properties confirmed that this GST was one from the elevated subset of N. lugens GSTs. Peroxidase activity of the recombinant nlgst1-1 indicated that it had a role in resistance, through detoxification of lipid peroxidation products induced by pyrethroids. Southern analysis of genomic DNA from the resistant and susceptible strains indicated that GST-based insecticide resistance may be associated with gene amplification in N. lugens.
11853929	Starch-g-poly(acrylic acid) copolymers or grafted starches synthesized by 60Co irradiation or chemical modification and co-freeze-dried starch/poly(acrylic acid) mixtures were evaluated on their ex vivo bioadhesion capacity. The buccal absorption of testosterone from a bioadhesive tablet formulated with the grafted starches or starch/poly(acrylic acid) mixtures was investigated. The results were compared to a reference formulation (physical mixture of 5% Carbopol 974P and 95% Drum Dried Waxy Maize). Rice starch-based irradiated grafted starches showed the best bioadhesion results. Partial neutralization of the acrylic acid with Ca(2+) ions resulted in significantly higher bioadhesion values compared to the reference. Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) partially neutralized maltodextrin-based irradiated grafted starches showed significantly higher bioadhesion values compared to the reference formulation. The chemically modified grafted starches showed significantly higher adhesion force values than for the reference tablet. None of the co-freeze-dried starch/poly(acrylic acid) mixtures showed significantly higher bioadhesion results than the reference (Bonferroni test, P<0.05). A chemically modified grafted starch could sustain the 3 ng/ml plasma testosterone target concentration during +/- 8 h (T(>3 ng/ml)). By lyophilization of a partially neutralized irradiated grafted starch, the in vivo adhesion time (22.0 +/- 7.2 h) and the T(>3 ng/ml) (13.5 +/- 1.3 h) could be increased. The absolute bioavailability of the lyophilized formulation approached the reference formulation. Some of the grafted starches showed to be promising buccal bioadhesive drug carriers for systemic delivery.
11853943	The paper presents a new lossless ECG compression scheme. The short-term predictor and the coder use conditioning on a small number of contexts. The long-term prediction is based on an algorithm for R-R interval estimation. Several QRS detection algorithms are investigated to select a low complexity and reliable detection algorithm. The coding of prediction residuals uses primarily the Golomb-Rice (GR) codes, but, to improve the coding results, escape codes GR-ESC are used in some contexts for a limited number of samples. Experimental results indicate the good overall performance of the lossless ECG compression algorithms (reducing the storage needs from 12 to about 3-4 bits per sample). The scheme consistently outperforms other waveform or general purpose coding algorithms.
11855622	A survey of the production, consumption and storage of Kunu was carried out. Some of the information included consumption rate, processing techniques and equipment, producer's status and grains used. About 73% consume Kunu daily, 26% occasionally; 1% know it is produced but may or may not be consuming it. Millet (Pennisetum typhoideum), sorghum (Sorghum vulgare), maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa) and acha (Digitalis exilis) were used in its production in decreasing order of preference. The grains were used singly or combined; sorghum/millet was the most common combination in a ratio of 1:2 (w/w). Steeping was done in ordinary water for 12-72 h, depending on the grain type, in local clay pots, plastic buckets, calabashes or basins or 5-7 h in warm water (60-70 degrees C). The grains were dry or wet milled with or without spices such as ginger, red pepper, black pepper, clove and garlic. Other ingredients introduced included: sweet potatoes, malted rice, malted sorghum and Cadaba farinosa crude extract. Both dry and wet milling was done with grinding mills, mill stones or mortar and pestle, depending on locality. The product was then cooked into a thin free flowing gruel. The various types of kunu were: Kunun zaki, Kunun gyada, Kunun akamu, Kunun tsamiya, Kunun baule, Kunun jiko, Amshau and Kunun gayamba. Kunun zaki was the most commonly consumed. Production and consumption cut across all social classes of the society.
11855722	Calmodulin (CaM) is a small Ca2+-binding protein highly conserved in eukaryotes. We have reported previously a novel rice CaM-like protein (OsCaM61) which contains an N-terminal CaM domain and a C-terminal extension with a potential prenylation site. Here we report in vitro activity assays confirm OsCaM61 as a functional CaM. Using the green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a visual marker, we further studied the subcellular localization of OsCaM61 in stably transformed tobacco cells. The GFP-OsCaM61 fusion protein was membrane-associated whereas OsCaM61-GFP was mainly detected in the nucleoplasm. GFP-OsCaM61 was transported into the nucleoplasm upon a block in isoprenoid biosynthesis by mevinolin treatment of cells. These results indicate that the prenylated OsCaM61 molecules are mainly membrane-associated whereas its unprenylated counterparts are transported into the nucleoplasm. Thus, OsCaM61 may play functions in co-ordinating Ca2+ signaling with isoprenoid metabolism.
11855732	The rice myb7 mRNA contains in its long leader an upstream open reading frame (uORF) putatively coding for a 40 amino acid peptide. uORFs have been found in the leader of mRNAs encoding transcriptional factors or other proteins involved in cellular growth and development. They are thought to translationally regulate the expression of downstream ORFs. Here, we showed the ability of the myb7 uORF to inhibit the expression of downstream reporter genes both in homologous (rice) and heterologous (tobacco) systems. This effect seems partially related to its translation, as indicated by the comparison with the mutagenized uORF. In both systems most of the inhibitory effect was due to the presence of the intercistronic region, in disagreement with the Kozak model. Moreover, replacing the uORF or the intercistronic region with a different one, we demonstrated that the inhibitory effect strictly depends on their co-presence. Finally, in vitro assays showed that the myb7 uORF is translated and inhibits the downstream ORF translation.
11856440	Anaphylactic reactions to food containing allergens in the consumption or preparation of food are well known. However, allergy in the preparation of sausages has rarely been described. In the present study a 26-year-old-butcher was investigated who had a severe anaphylactic reaction developing sneezing, rhinitis, conjunctivitis, generalised pruritus, followed by widespread urticaria, Quincke's oedema and dyspnoe after starting to prepare sausages containing red yield rice. Red yield rice is produced by the fungus Monascus purpureus. It was the first time that Monascus purpureus could be shown as allergic agent by means of prick-to-prick test, Cellular Antigen Stimulation Test (CAST) and different immunoblots.
11856615	The first sequenced plant genome, from the small mustard plant Arabidopsis thaliana, was published at the end of 2000. The sequencing of the rice genome is well under way. The sizes of plant genomes vary by a factor of up to 1000, and many important crop plants have genomes that are several times larger than the human genome. To gain insight into the gene toolbox of plant species, numerous large-scale EST sequencing projects have been launched successfully, and analysis procedures are constantly being refined to add maximum value to the sequence data. In addition, an alternative approach to exclude repetitive noncoding DNA and to enrich sequence libraries for gene-containing genomic regions has been developed. This strategy has the potential to deliver information about both genes and regulatory regions outside the transcribed regions.
11860211	Automated methods for identifying protein coding regions in genomic DNA have progressed significantly in recent years, but there is still a strong need for more accurate computational solutions to the gene finding problem. Large-scale genome sequencing projects depend greatly on gene finding to generate accurate and complete gene annotation. Improvements in gene finding software are being driven by the development of better computational algorithms, a better understanding of the cell's mechanisms for transcription and translation, and the enormous increases in genomic sequence data. This paper reviews some of the most widely used algorithms for gene finding in plants, including technical descriptions of how they work and recent measurements of their success on the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice.
11860404	Controlled delivery of drugs to the small intestine in relation to emptying of an ingested meal is important in various pathophysiological conditions. We investigated the effects of different food consistencies and the amount of co-ingested liquid on the intragastric distribution of a contrast marker. Five healthy subjects received four meals (each 650 kcal: A, mashed potato with 100 mL water; B, rice with 100 mL water; C, hamburger meal with 100 mL water; D, hamburger meal with 300 mL water). A capsule filled with gadolinium tetra-azacyclododecane tetra-acetic acid solution (as contrast marker) was ingested following meal termination, and its intragastric distribution was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging. Initially, marker distribution was confined to the fundus, and subsequently extended along the inner curvature of the stomach. The maximum distribution volume of the marker was lower in meal A than in meal B (P < 0.05). No differences in marker distribution were observed when the hamburger meal was given with 100 or 300 mL water. The intragastric distribution kinetics of the marker gadolinium tetra-azacyclododecane tetra-acetic acid appeared to depend on meal consistency, but not on the amount of water co-ingested. Three-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging allows detailed analysis of the intragastric distribution of a drug model in relation to meal emptying and intragastric meal distribution.
11863916	Thermal CO desorption from photoexcited free metal-carbonyl clusters has been resolved in real time using two-color pump-probe photoelectron spectroscopy. Sequential energy dissipation steps between the initial photoexcitation and the final desorption event, e.g., electron relaxation and thermalization, have been resolved for Au2(CO)(-) and Pt2(CO)5-. The desorption rates for the two clusters differ considerably due to the different numbers of vibrational degrees of freedom. The unimolecular CO-desorption thresholds of Au2(CO)(-) and Pt2(CO)5- have been approximated by means of a statistical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel calculation using the experimentally derived desorption rate constants.
11864975	Starch-branching enzymes (SBE) have a dominant role for amylopectin structure as they define chain length and frequency of branch points. We have previously shown that one of the SBE isoforms of kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), designated PvSBE2, has a molecular mass (82 kDa) significantly smaller than those reported for isologous SBEs from pea (SBEI), maize (BEIIb), and rice (RBE3). Additionally, in contrast to the dual location of the pea SBEI in both the soluble and starch granule fractions, PvSBE2 was found only in the soluble fraction during seed development. Analysis of a pvsbe2 cDNA suggested that PvSBE2 is generated from a larger precursor with a putative plastid targeting sequence of 156 residues. Here we describe the occurrence of a larger 100-kDa form (LF-PvSBE2) of PvSBE2 found both in the soluble and starch granule fractions of the developing seeds. The determined N-terminal sequence, VKSSHDSD, of LF-PvSBE2 corresponded to a peptide sequence located 111 amino acids upstream from the N terminus of purified PvSBE2, suggesting that LF-PvSBE2 and PvSBE2 are products of the same gene. Analysis of the products by 5'-RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) and reverse transcription PCR indicated that the two transcripts for pre-LF-PvSBE2 and pre-PvSBE2 are generated by alternative splicing. Recombinant LF-PvSBE2 (rLF-PvSBE2) was purified from Escherichia coli and the kinetic properties were compared with those of recombinant PvSBE2 (rPvSBE2). rLF-PvSBE2 had much higher affinity for amylopectin (K(m) = 4.4 mg/ml) than rPvSBE2 (18.4 mg/ml), whereas the V(max) of rLF-PvSBE2 (135 units/mg) for this substrate was much lower than that of rPvSBE2 (561 units/mg). These results suggest that the N-terminal extension of LF-PvSBE2 plays a critical role for localization in starch granules by altering its enzymatic properties.
11865865	Plants grown in spaceflight conditions are more susceptible to colonization by plant pathogens. The underlying causes for this enhanced susceptibility are not known. Possibly the formation of structural barriers and the activation of plant defense response components are impaired in spaceflight conditions. Either condition would result from altered gene expression of the plant. Because of the tools available, past studies focused on a few physiological responses or biochemical pathways. With recent advances in genomics research, new tools, including microarray technologies, are available to examine the global impact of growth in the spacecraft on the plant's gene expression profile. In ground-based studies, we have developed cDNA subtraction libraries of rice that are enriched for genes induced during pathogen infection and the defense response. Arrays of these genes are being used to dissect plant defense response pathways in a model system involving wild-type rice plants and lesion mimic mutants. The lesion mimic mutants are ideal experimental tools because they erratically develop defense response-like lesions in the absence of pathogens. The gene expression profiles from these ground-based studies will provide the molecular basis for understanding the biochemical and physiological impacts of spaceflight on plant growth, development and disease defense responses. This, in turn, will allow the development of strategies to manage plant disease for life in the space environment.
11866108	Molecular-bred Coprinus cinereus monokaryotic strains with high lignin- and xylan-degrading activities were mixed-cultured at 27 degrees C in the liquid medium containing 0.5% (w/v) cut rice straw and 0.025% MnCl2. After 3 weeks, the culture supernatant was extensively treated with crude cellulase, showing the presence in it of 9.3% of the total cellulose of rice straw. When rice straw treated with 0.1 N NaOH or cultured with Ganoderma applanatum were used, the recoveries of the cellulose increased up to 29%. The same experiments were done by using a non-bred control strain, showing the recoveries of the cellulose from the treated or cultured rice straw to be 8%.
11866844	OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of the new differential culture medium CHROMagar Candida for routine investigation of clinical specimens. METHODS: During a whole year, 6150 clinical samples were plated on CHROMagar Candida medium. After incubation, the green colonies were considered to be Candida albicans. The colonies of other colors were identified using Bichrolatex-krusei, or by their assimilation pattern on ID 32C test strips and their morphology on rice cream-agar-Tween. RESULTS: Among the 6150 clinical samples, 1643 were positive for fungi. Aspergillus fumigatus and Geotrichum sp. were the predominant filamentous fungi isolated. Candida albicans was the most common species isolated (1274 of the positive samples; 77.5%), and Candida glabrata was the second most common yeast isolated (174 positive samples; 10.6%). Other yeast species were detected at lower frequencies, mainly Candida tropicalis (3.8%), Candida krusei (2.7%), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (2.7%) and Candida kefyr (2.3%), and 16 samples revealed a lipophilic species, Malassezia furfur. Mixed fungal populations accounted for 14.7% of the positive samples. Two or more yeast species were detected in 206 of the 242 specimens containing mixed fungal populations, and five yeast species were detected in one sample. Additionally, we did not observe significant differences in the isolation of yeasts or filamentous fungi from the 366 samples simultaneously plated on CHROMagar Candida and Sabouraud dextrose agar. Close agreement between the two culture media was observed for 89.9% of these samples. CONCLUSIONS: CHROMagar Candida medium was shown to be extremely helpful in a routine clinical mycology service, facilitating the detection of mixed cultures of yeasts and allowing direct identification of C. albicans, as well as rapid presumptive identification of the other yeasts: C. glabrata, C. tropicalis, C. krusei and S. cerevisiae. This chromogenic medium thus appears to be suitable as a primary culture medium, particularly for the mycologic surveillance of immunocompromised patients.
11867094	The following six novel methyl ether derivatives of brassinolide were prepared and their brassinosteroid activity was measured by means of the rice leaf lamina inclination bioassay: 2-O-methylbrassinolide, 3-O-methylbrassinolide, 2,22,23-tri-O-methylbrassinolide, 3,22,23-tri-O-methylbrassinolide, 2-O-methyl-25-methoxybrassinolide and 3-O-methyl-25-methoxybrassinolide. Brassinolide was used as a standard for comparison. All six compounds were also tested in the presence of 1000 ng of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), an auxin that synergizes the effects of brassinosteroids. The 2-O-methyl- and 3-O-methylbrassinolide derivatives showed weak activity at high doses, which was enhanced by IAA, especially in the case of the 3-O-methyl derivative. Similarly, the 2,22,23-tri-O-methyl- and 3,22,23-tri-O-methyl derivatives displayed weak bioactivity on their own, but significantly stronger activity when applied with IAA. The 3-O-methyl and 3,22,23-tri-O-methyl analogues plus IAA were comparable in bioacivity to brassinolide alone, but were less active than brassinolide plus IAA. In each case, O-methylation at C-2 resulted in a greater loss of activity than O-methylation at C-3 under the same conditions. The relatively strong activity of 3,22,23-tri-O-methylbrassinolide in the presence of IAA is especially noteworthy as it indicates that free hydroxyl groups at C-3, C-22, and C-23 are not essential for bioactivity. Finally, 2-O-methyl- and 3-O-methyl-25-methoxybrassinolide were essentially inactive alone, and showed only a modest increase in bioactivity when coapplied with IAA.
11867229	With a specific focus on rice self-defense response(s), the effects of global signaling molecules, jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), abscisic acid (ABA), and ethylene (using the ethylene generator, ethephon), and protein phosphatase (PP) inhibitors, cantharidin and endothall on expression of a rice phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (OsPHGPX) gene in rice seedling leaves were investigated. We provide first evidence for a potent up-regulation of the OsPHGPX mRNA accumulation by these signaling molecules and PP inhibitors that strongly suggest its potential role in defense/stress. The OsPHGPX gene also showed a weak constitutive expression and responsiveness to cut. These inductions were influenced by light signal(s), and did not show a requirement for de novo synthesized protein factor(s). A potential interaction amongst these signaling molecules, especially JA, SA, ABA and kinetin, in modulating the OsPHGPX expression was found. The blast pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea also elicited the accumulation of OsPHGPX mRNA in leaves. This is a first systematic report in rice (and in plants) demonstrating the inducible nature (and expression) of the OsPHGPX gene by a variety of defense/stress-related stimuli, and modulation by the PPs of the kinase-signaling cascade(s).
11867698	The bamboo, woody monocot, has two types of parenchyma cells in the ground tissues of its culm, in contrast to a single type of parenchyma cell in rice, maize and other major crop species. The distribution of cell wall components, including lignin, (1-->3), (1-->4)-beta-D-glucans (MGs), the highly-substituted glucuronoarabinoxylans (hsGAXs) and low-branched xylans (lbXs) in ground parenchyma tissue of Phyllostachys heterocycla var. pubescens culms was studied at various developmental stages using light microscopy (LM), UV-microscopy, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and immunolabeling techniques. The short parenchyma cell walls were lignified in 2-month-old bamboo culms just as the long parenchyma cell walls were. The lignified regions were confined to the portions in contact with the long parenchyma cell walls, while the walls at the cell corner region never lignified, even in 7-year-old culms. Significant differences were also found in the hemicellulose distribution between the short and long parenchyma cell walls. In bamboo parenchyma tissue, MGs were localized in short parenchyma cell walls and few were found in long parenchyma cell walls in both young and 7-year-old culms. The distribution of hsGAXs was similar to that of MGs in young culms, but they only appeared in the cell corner region of short parenchyma cells in old culms. Low-branched xylans were distributed in the lignified, but not in unlignified parenchyma cell walls. Based on this evidence, the differences of function in both short and long parenchyma cells in a bamboo culm are discussed.
11867702	gamma-Tubulin is typically associated with microtubule organising centres, such as the centrosome, and appears to mediate microtubule nucleation. Centrosomes are usually not found in higher plants, but active genes homologous to gamma-tubulin have been identified in the plant kingdom, including the angiosperms Arabidopsis, maize and rice. We have isolated and characterised gamma-tubulin cDNA sequences of two further angiosperm species, barley and tobacco. Sequence comparison revealed a phylogenetic tree with distinct clusters corresponding to the systematic position of the species. Furthermore, domains, thought to be exposed in the folded protein and to be candidates for interaction with associated, nucleation-site related proteins, exhibited motifs highly specific of multicellular plants. Strong expression of the gamma-tubulin genes, as determined by Northern blotting, correlated with mitotic activity. Expression dropped distinctly when mitotic activity ceased. Thus, in post-mitotic tissues that showed intricate reshuffling of cortical microtubule arrays related to cell shaping only very low gamma-tubulin steady-state RNA levels were found, contrasting with the situation for alpha-tubulin. The findings indicate that gamma-tubulin expression in plants may be more tightly linked to mitosis, although there is some gamma-tubulin expression at the RNA level even after mitosis. It follows that the post-mitotic changes in microtubular arrays may be less dependent on concurrent gamma-tubulin RNA expression than mitotic cells.
11867703	MADS-box genes encode regulatory factors that are involved at various stages in plant development. These genes function not only during early floral meristem identity, but also when the fate of floral organ primordia is determined in a later step. Here, we screened a floral bud cDNA library to isolate a tobacco MADS-box gene, NtMADS4, using the rice MADS-box gene, OsMADS1, as a probe. We previously reported that OsMADS1 plays a critical role in flower development in rice. Ectopic expression of NtMADS4 caused phenotypes of extremely early flowering as well as dwarfism. Plant MADS proteins have a K domain that mediates the formation of dimers. This dimerization appears to be an essential step for a functional protein complex. NtMADS11 was isolated as an interacting partner of NtMADS4 by yeast two-hybrid screening. The latter was included in the AGAMOUS-like 2 (AGL2) family whereas the former was categorized in the SQUAMOSA (SQUA) family. While the transcript of NtMADS4 was detectable only in reproductive organs, that of NtMADS11 was seen in both reproductive and vegetative organs. Expression levels were high for both genes during early developmental stages. Ectopic expression of NtMADS11 and OsMADS14 was able to rescue the floral organ defects seen in the strong ap1-1 mutant. Roles of NtMADS4 and NtMADS11 in the floral initiation are discussed.
11868676	Allelopathy in rice (Oryza sativa, L.) effective against weeds has been found in about 3.5% of tested rice germplasm in both laboratory and field experimentation. However, the allelochemicals responsible for growth inhibition of rice-associated weeds have not yet been identified. In the literature, phenolic acids are often mentioned as putative allelochemicals. If phenolic acids commonly reach growth inhibitory concentrations in rice ecosystems, it must be expected that the degree of tolerance to phenolic acids will vary among traditional rice cultivars or plant species adapted to rice environments having inherently different phenolic acid concentrations. Phenolic acids concentrations are normally greater in submerged than in aerobic soils. A dose-response study, however, showed that seedlings of rice cultivars adapted to submerged anaerobic soils did not have higher level of tolerance against p-hydroxybenzoic acid than did seedlings of varieties adapted to aerobic upland soils. Moreover, traditional rice cultivars had no greater tolerance than did improved cultivars that were recently bred for traits other than tolerance of phenolic acids. Similarly, there were no differences in tolerance of p-hydroxybenzoic acid between two Echinochloa weed species adapted to either anaerobic or aerobic growth conditions. Thus, neither the rice cultivars nor weed species had evolved different tolerance levels against the phenolic acid. However, all rice cultivars had significantly greater tolerance of p-hydroxybenzoic acid than did either weed species. In a second experiment, the rates at which rice plants released phenolic acids into solution cultures were measured for at least one month, the time period of greatest allelopathic activity following planting under field conditions. The maximum release rate of phenolic acids during the first month of growth was approximately 10 microg/plant/day. At a conventional plant density, the release rate of phenolic acids would be approximately 1 mg/m2/day. This order of release rate cannot provide concentrations remotely close to phytotoxic levels determined for these rice cultivars and weed species. The results presented in this paper do not preclude the possibility that phenolic acids might be one component in a mixture of chemicals that, when present simultaneously, are allelopathic.
11868761	Leptospirosis, a common form of zoonosis, especially in rainy countries, is caused by Leptospira interrogans. In our region of Turkey this type of disease has often been encountered in connection with rice harvesting and we therefore attempted to evaluate the prevalence of L. interrogans in wild rats in our region. Fifty-nine Rattus norvegicus rats were trapped alive in different areas of an approximately 100 km stretch of seashore in the Middle Black Sea region of Turkey. L. interrogans was determined by PCR in sera, kidney and brain tissue. Sixteen (27.1%) kidney samples and 10 brain tissue samples (16.9%) were positive for L. interrogans. No PCR positivity was seen in sera samples. Five sera were positive by microagglutination test. A large proportion of wild rats in our region were found to be carriers of L. interrogans. We conclude that people who are exposed to rat urine in their daily life are at risk of acquiring L. interrogans.
1186914	The appearance of Fasciola cercariae in aquatic rice fields of fluky areas was investigated by using a metacercaria-detecting buoy. The buoy consisted mainly of a foam styrol disk 10 cm in diameter and 3 cm in thickness, and a polyethylene sheet 16 cm in diameter covering the bottom and side of the disk. Each buoy was floated at each corner of a section of rice fields. To determine the serial appearance of Fasciola cercariae, the polyethylene sheet was renewed at intervals of a week over a period of rice cultivation and the number of metacercariae was counted on each sheet. In most rice fields an evident peak of metacercarial detection was observed between the middle of July and the end of August. The time of the first detection of cysts in a small number varied from one section to another of the same field or from one area to another. Metacercariae decreased in number in accordance with drying up the fields. The metacercaria-detecting buoy method was applied to rice fields fertilized with cattle manure for 7 days in mid-summer, as well as to fields located closely to cattle pens, but not fertilized. Many cysts were detected from both groups of fields. The results obtained from weekly observation on the population of snails, particularly infected snails in their habitats, and those from the cercarial appearance detected by means of the buoy method were essentially the same.
11869343	One hundred and twenty-two AFLP markers were mapped using an IR64 x Azucena rice doubled-haploid (DH) population. The distribution of these mapped markers was monitored across a set of 48 diverse landraces of rice. Strong statistical associations were observed between 960 of the 7381 possible pairs of markers across the diverse material. These 960 strongly associated pairs of markers mapped to the same chromosomes in only 111 cases. The remaining 849 pairs were the result of association between markers found on different chromosomes. More than 21% of these genetically unlinked but strongly associated markers are not randomly distributed across the genome but instead occupy blocks of DNA on different rice chromosomes. Amongst associated blocks, there has clearly been maintenance of combinations of marker alleles across very diverse germplasm. Analyses have also revealed that markers are found in association with performance for each of four quantitative traits in both the diverse landrace material and a DH mapping population. It is proposed that the present data provide strong evidence for the co-adaptation of geographically distinct landraces and that this has resulted over time in the maintenance of 'adaptive gene complexes' involving agronomically important quantitative traits.
11870482	The MR imaging features of fluid collections and juxta-articular cystic lesions of the shoulder are discussed, with special focus on those related to subacromial impingement and rotator cuff tears. Other more unusual fluid collections and cystic lesions are described, including rice-bodies bursitis, idiopathic synovial osteochondromatosis, dialysis-related amyloid arthropathy, hemophilic arthropathy, infectious conditions, non-infectious inflammatory arthritis, and paralabral cysts.
11870777	Using direct N-terminal analysis, only 31 N-terminally unblocked proteins out of 100 rice embryo proteins could be identified. To obtain protein sequence information for the remaining 69 blocked proteins, we developed a simple, efficient and rapid method. Using this method, we determined the peptide maps of 20 proteins per day in 10 pmol amounts. Applying this method to rice proteome analysis, we determined the internal sequences of all 69 blocked proteins. A total of 28 proteins out of 100 analyzed showed sequence similarity to the proteins with known functions in the SWISS-PROT and NCBI databases. Alternatively, we also used peptide mass fingerprinting determined by matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) to identify the rice proteins separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE). Although peptide-mass fingerprinting is a high-throughput method, we could not easily identify all the rice proteins or genes by this method, because the complete database information on rice, is not yet available and many proteins are post-translationally modified. Therefore, at present, the improved peptide mapping method as we report here is considered to be very useful in rice proteome analysis, especially for blocked proteins.
11871130	To clarify toxic effects of long-term oral administration of low dose cadmium (Cd) on the liver and kidney, six groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a diet containing Cd-polluted rice or CdCl2 at concentrations up to 40 ppm, and killed after 12, 18, and 22 months. With toxicological parameters, including histopathology, there was no evidence of Cd-related hepato-renal toxicity, despite a slight decrease of mean corpuscular volume and mean corpuscular hemoglobin of red blood cells with 40 ppm CdCl2. Dose-dependent accumulation of Cd was observed in the liver and kidneys with peak levels of 130 +/- 42 micrograms/g and 120 +/- 20 micrograms/g, respectively, at 18 months in animals treated with 40 ppm CdCl2. A dose-dependent increase in urinary Cd levels became evident with time. Induction of metallothionein (MT) was also observed in the liver and kidney with a high correlation to the corresponding Cd levels. In the proximal renal tubular epithelia of 40 ppm CdCl2-treated rats at 22 months, prominent accumulation of Cd was observed in secondary lysosomes associated with MT deposits in their exocytotic residual bodies. The results demonstrated that, in contrast to the case with high-dose Cd-administration, renal toxicity is not induced by long-term oral administration of low amounts of Cd, although tissue accumulation does occur. Possible protective mechanisms may be operating.
11874292
11874462	The 26S proteasome, a protein complex consisting of a 20S proteasome and a pair of 19S regulatory particles (RP), is involved in ATP-dependent proteolysis in eukaryotes. In yeast, the RP contains six different ATPase subunits and, at least, 11 non-ATPase subunits. In this study, we identified the rice homologs of yeast RP subunit genes from the rice expressed sequence tag (EST) library. The complete nucleotide sequences of the homologs for five ATPase subunits, OsRpt1, OsRpt2, OsRpt4, OsRpt5 and OsRpt6, and five non-ATPase subunits, OsRpn7, OsRpn8, OsRpn10, OsRpn11 and OsRpn12, and the partial sequences of one ATPase subunit, OsRpt3, and six non-ATPase subunits, OsRpn1, OsRpn2, OsRpn3, OsRpn5, OsRpn6 and OsRpn9, were determined. Gene homologs of four ATPase subunits, OsRpt1, OsRpt2, OsRpt4 and OsRpt5, and three non- ATPase subunits, OsRpn1, OsRpn2 and OsRpn9, were found to be encoded by duplicated genes. The rice RP was purified by immunoaffinity chromatography with a Protein A column immobilized antibody against rice 20S proteasome, and the subunit composition was determined. The homologs obtained from the rice EST library were identified as genes encoding subunits of RP purified from rice, including the both products of duplicated genes by using electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Post-translational modifications and processing in rice RP subunits were also identified. Various types of RP complex with different subunit compositions are present in rice cells, suggesting the multiple functions of rice proteasome.
11876823	The phospholipase D (PLD) family has been identified in plants by recent molecular studies, fostered by the emerging importance of plant PLDs in stress physiology and signal transduction. However, the presence of multiple isoforms limits the power of conventional biochemical and pharmacological approaches, and calls for a wider application of genetic methodology. Taking advantage of sequence data available in public databases, we attempted to provide a prerequisite for such an approach. We made a complete inventory of the Arabidopsis thaliana PLD family, which was found to comprise 12 distinct genes. The current nomenclature of Arabidopsis PLDs was refined and expanded to include five newly described genes. To assess the degree of plant PLD diversity beyond Arabidopsis we explored data from rice (including the genome draft by Monsanto) as well as cDNA and EST sequences from several other plants. Our analysis revealed two major PLD subfamilies in plants. The first, designated C2-PLD, is characterised by presence of the C2 domain and comprises previously known plant PLDs as well as new isoforms with possibly unusual features catalytically inactive or independent on Ca2+. The second subfamily (denoted PXPH-PLD) is novel in plants but is related to animal and fungal enzymes possessing the PX and PH domains. The evolutionary dynamics, and inter-specific diversity, of plant PLDs inferred from our phylogenetic analysis, call for more plant species to be employed in PLD research. This will enable us to obtain generally valid conclusions.
11879977	A follow-up survey was conducted to investigate the relationship between total Cd intake and mortality in the Jinzu River basin for 6128 days among 757 inhabitants who ingested household rice. When the subjects were divided into two groups, standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were 0.94 in men and 1.36 in women for the > or = 2.0 g group and 0.68 in men and 0.29 in women for the <2.0 g group (significant in the women). Cox's hazard ratios for men, women, and men+women for the > or = 2.0 g group relative to those in the <2.0 g group were 1.406, 3.955 and 1.950 (significant in the men+women). Using total Cd intake as a continuous variable, the hazard ratios were 1.045, 1.146 and 1.049 in men, women, and men+women (significant in the women), respectively. In the Jinzu River basin, increased total Cd intake appears to exert an adverse influence on life prognosis.
11880579	Staples are not considered an important source of minerals in the diet. However, because of high staple consumption, any increase in mineral concentration might well have a significant effect on human nutrition and health. The nutritional quality of staple crops (rice, cassava, wheat, maize and beans) can be improved by breeding. Studies have shown the potential to exploit the genetic variation in seed concentration of iron and other minerals without the general negative effect on yield of adding new traits. The relationship between yield and mineral concentration may be positive, particularly in mineral-deficient soil. Initial evaluations have shown that some crop varieties have high Fe, Zn and carotene in their edible portions. The next step for conventional breeding will be to study the genetics of trace mineral inheritance to determine the best selection technique. Initial investigations of the genetics for high iron in rice have indicated a complex mode of inheritance, demonstrating additive and dominant gene and environmental effects. Breeding strategies have been developed based on these genetic findings. The use of biotechnological tools, such as molecular marker-assisted selection, will significantly increase the pace and prospects of success for breeding to improve the nutritional value of staple food crops.
11880580	Populations that depend on grains and legumes as staple foods consume diets rich in phytic acid (myo-inositol-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexkisphosphate), the storage form of phosphorus in seeds. This compound binds tightly to important mineral nutrients such as iron and zinc, forming salts that are largely excreted. This phenomenon can contribute to mineral depletion and deficiency. As one approach to solving this and environmental problems associated with seed-derived dietary phytic acid, the U. S. Department of Agriculture and others have isolated cereal and legume low-phytic acid mutations and have used these to breed first-generation low-phytate hybrids, cultivars and lines of maize (Zea mays), barley (Hordeum vulgare), rice (Oryza sativa) and soybean (Glycine max). Seed phytic acid is reduced in these crops by 50-95%. The progress in the genetics, breeding and nutritional evaluation of low-phytate crops are reviewed in this article.
11880581	To obtain a functioning provitamin A (beta-carotene) biosynthetic pathway in rice endosperm, we introduced in a single, combined transformation effort the cDNA coding for phytoene synthase (psy) and lycopene beta-cyclase (beta-lcy) both from Narcissus pseudonarcissus and both under the control of the endosperm-specific glutelin promoter together with a bacterial phytoene desaturase (crtI, from Erwinia uredovora under constitutive 35S promoter control). This combination covers the requirements for beta-carotene synthesis and, as hoped, yellow beta-carotene-bearing rice endosperm was obtained in the T(0)-generation. Additional experiments revealed that the presence of beta-lcy was not necessary, because psy and crtI alone were able to drive beta-carotene synthesis as well as the formation of further downstream xanthophylls. Plausible explanations for this finding are that these downstream enzymes are constitutively expressed in rice endosperm or are induced by the transformation, e.g., by enzymatically formed products. Results using N. pseudonarcissus as a model system led to the development of a hypothesis, our present working model, that trans-lycopene or a trans-lycopene derivative acts as an inductor in a kind of feedback mechanism stimulating endogenous carotenogenic genes. Various institutional arrangements for disseminating Golden Rice to research institutes in developing countries also are discussed.
11881936	In vitro gas production was measured to investigate associative effects of untreated and chemically treated rice straw (RS) and of RS and grass hay or mulberry leaves (ML). The RS was treated with NaOH, urea, or (NH4)HCO3. Cumulative gas production was recorded at 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, and 96 h of incubation, and the Gompertz function was used to describe the kinetics of gas production. Treatment with NaOH, urea, and NH4HCO3 increased (P < 0.05) gas production at 48 h by 55, 52, and 37% and the maximum rate of gas production of RS from 0.64 to 1.51, 1.27, and 1.13 mL/h, respectively. The inclusion of treated straws, hay, and ML in a mixture with RS at increasing proportions (25, 50, 75, 100%) elevated cumulative gas production and its rate. Maximum gas production was not different between the RS and its mixtures with the treated straws, but inclusion of hay into RS or NH4HCO3-treated RS increased the maximum gas production. Associative effects were defined as the difference between the observed gas production for the mixtures and the sum of the individual component feeds. The NaOH-treated RS, included at higher proportions, had positive associative effects at all times of incubation < 96 h; effects were negative or absent at 96 h. No effects were observed with mixtures of RS with urea-treated RS. The NH4HCO3-treated RS mixture tended to have negative associative effects at all three levels. Positive associative effects (P < 0.05) were observed for both RS and NH4HCO3-treated RS at almost all inclusion levels of hay or ML after 12 to 96 h of incubation. The response was more pronounced with ML than with hay. Associative effects generally declined with duration of incubation. We conclude that positive associative effects on in vitro gas production occurred more consistently when RS was incubated in mixtures with hay or ML than when incubated in mixtures with chemically treated RS.
11882333	Tocotrienols are effective in lowering serum total and LDL-cholesterol levels by inhibiting the hepatic enzymic activity of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzymeA (HMG-CoA) reductase through the post-transcriptional mechanism. alpha-Tocopherol, however, has an opposite effect (induces) on this enzyme activity. Since tocotrienols are also converted to tocopherols in vivo, it is necessary not to exceed a certain dose, as this would be counter-productive. The present study demonstrates the effects of various doses of a tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF25) of stabilized and heated rice bran in hypercholesterolemic human subjects on serum lipid parameters. Ninety (18/group) hypercholesterolemic human subjects participated in this study, which comprised three phases of 35 days each. The subjects were initially placed on the American Heart Association (AHA) Step-1 diet and the effects noted. They were then administered 25, 50, 100, and 200 mg/day of TRF25 while on the restricted (AHA) diet. The results show that a dose of 100 mg/day of TRF25 produce maximum decreases of 20, 25, 14 (P<0.05) and 12%, respectively, in serum total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and triglycerides compared with the baseline values, suggesting that a dose of 100 mg/day TRF25 plus AHA Step-1 diet may be the optimal dose for controlling the risk of coronary heart disease in hypercholesterolemic human subjects.
11882349	We investigated the association between the Cd concentration in rice and renal dysfunction in individuals living in the Cd-polluted Jinzu River basin, using a logistic regression analysis. In the cases of logistic regression analysis for people (1) who had either resided in the present hamlet since birth or who had moved there from a non-polluted area and for those (2) who had resided in the present hamlet since birth, except for glucosuria in males, all partial correlation coefficients between the Cd concentration in rice and occurrence of abnormal urinary findings were statistically significant in both sexes. The allowable level of Cd concentration in rice was calculated by substituting the abnormality rates of urinary findings of the controls in the 40-49, 50-59 and 60-69 year age groups into the logistic regression formula for people (3). The value for subjects aged 50 years was 0.13 and 0.17 ppm for males and females, respectively, with regard to proteinuria and 0.15 and 0.10 ppm for males and females, respectively, with regard to proteinuria+glucosuria.
11882938	The 26S proteasome is known to play central roles in the growth of many eukaryotes. However, little is known regarding its distribution in higher plants. Here, we report the spatial distribution pattern of Rpn3 (a regulatory PA700 subunit) and C2 (a subunit of the 20S proteasome) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings as determined by in situ hybridization. The transcripts were abundantly co-expressed in the apical and marginal meristems of shoots and roots. Interestingly, these transcripts also accumulated in the leaf and ligule primordia of the shoot apex. Our results suggest that the 26S proteasome is spatially distributed among various tissues and may be involved not only in cell division but also in organ formation in higher plants.
11883150	To study the effect of rice bran oil (RBO) on serum lipids and lipid peroxides in human volunteers. Nine healthy volunteers, aged between 42 to 57 years were given 75 ml of RBO thrice daily as the cooking medium with break fast, lunch and dinner for a period of 50 days. At the beginning and at the end of 50 days, 5 ml of blood were drawn from an ante cubital vein. Serum lipids and lipid peroxides levels were estimated from the blood sample. There was a significant decrease in the levels of lipid peroxides, triglycerides, LDL, VLDL, and total cholesterol in human volunteers who switched over to RBO. RBO has evidently antioxidant and antilipidemic activities in human subjects.
11883515	Leaf blight disease of rice (Oryza sativa) is caused by the bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Phenol (1 to 4 mM) induced changes in protein profiles of X. o. pv. oryzae and a stress protein with a molecular mass of 69,000 appeared. HPLC analysis indicated occurrence of amino acids such as asparagine, alanine, methionine and cystine in phenol treated cells. Proton NMR analysis also revealed variation on the presence of amino acids in the cells treated with phenol.
11883516	Effect of phenol on total lipid and fatty acid composition of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice (Oryzae sativa) was studied. Lipid level was low in phenol treated cells. Number of fatty acids detected from phenol treated cells was more than those found in untreated cells as revealed by Gas chromatography. Pentadecanoic acid (C15:0), linolenic acid (C18:3) and behenic acid (C22:0) were present only in the treated cells. Palmitic acid which is usually found in bacteria was not detected both in control and treated cells.
11883672	To determine the role of Bacillus cereus as a potential pathogen in food poisoning, the production of an emetic toxin (cereulide) by B. cereus was quantified in various food sources. The amount of emetic toxin in 13 of 14 food samples implicated in vomiting-type food poisoning cases ranged from 0.01 to 1.28 microg/g. A vomiting-type strain, B. cereus NC7401, was inoculated into various foods and incubated for 24 h at 20, 30, and 35 degrees C. In boiled rice, B. cereus rapidly increased to 10(7)-10(8) cfu/g and produced emetic toxin at both 30 and 35 degrees C. In farinaceous foods, the production of emetic toxin was as high as that in the food samples implicated in food poisoning. Low levels of emetic toxin were detectable in egg and meat and their products and a small quantity of toxin was detectable in liquid foods such as milk and soymilk when not aerated. Bacterial growth and toxin production was inhibited in foods cooked with vinegar, mayonnaise, and catsup, supposedly by the decreased pH of acetic acid. This is the first report that has quantified emetic toxin of B. cereus in various foods.
11883675	Plaa-som is a Thai fermented fish product prepared from snakehead fish, salt, palm syrup and sometimes roasted rice. We studied the effects of different salt concentrations on decrease in pH and on microflora composition during fermentation. Two low-salt batches were prepared, containing 6% and 7% salt (w/w) as well as two high-salt batches, containing 9% and 11% salt. pH decreased rapidly from 6 to 4.5 in low-salt batches, whereas in high-salt batches, a slow or no decrease in pH was found. Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and yeasts were isolated as the dominant microorganisms during fermentation. LAB counts increased to 10(8)-10(9) cfu g(-1) and yeast counts to 10(7)-5 x 10(7) cfu g(-1) in all batches, except in the 11% salt batch, where counts were 1-2 log lower. Phenotypic tests, ITS-PCR, carbohydrate fermentations and 16S rRNA gene sequencing identified LAB isolates as Pediococcus pentosaceus, Lactobacillus alimentarius/farciminis, Weisella confusa, L. plantarum and Lactococcus garviae. The latter species was only isolated from high-salt batches. Phenotypic characteristics, ITS-PCR and carbohydrate assimilation identified 95% of the yeasts as Zygosaccharomyces rouxii. It is concluded that the fermentation of plaa-som is delayed by a salt-level of 9% due to an inhibition of LAB growth. The growth of Z. rouxii has no influence on the fermentation rate, but may contribute positively to the flavour development of the product.
11884686	The 6b gene in the T-DNA from Agrobacterium has oncogenic activity in plant cells, inducing tumor formation, the phytohormone-independent division of cells, and alterations in leaf morphology. The product of the 6b gene appears to promote some aspects of the proliferation of plant cells, but the molecular mechanism of its action remains unknown. We report here that the 6b protein associates with a nuclear protein in tobacco that we have designated NtSIP1 (for Nicotiana tabacum 6b-interacting protein 1). NtSIP1 appears to be a transcription factor because its predicted amino acid sequence includes two regions that resemble a nuclear localization signal and a putative DNA binding motif, which is similar in terms of amino acid sequence to the triple helix motif of rice transcription factor GT-2. Expression in tobacco cells of a fusion protein composed of the DNA binding domain of the yeast GAL4 protein and the 6b protein activated the transcription of a reporter gene that was under the control of a chimeric promoter that included the GAL4 upstream activating sequence and the 35S minimal promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus. Furthermore, nuclear localization of green fluorescent protein-fused 6b protein was enhanced by NtSIP1. A cluster of acidic residues in the 6b protein appeared to be essential for nuclear localization and for transactivation as well as for the hormone-independent growth of tobacco cells. Thus, it seems possible that the 6b protein might function in the proliferation of plant cells, at least in part, through an association with NtSIP1.
11886087	To estimate levels of organochlorine residuals in the Japanese population and the contribution of dietary factors to these levels, we determined serum levels of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane (beta-HCH), hexachlorobenzene (HCB), p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (p,p'-DDD), 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl) ethylene (p,p'-DDE) and p,p'-dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (p,p'-DDT) in 41 volunteers (14 men and 27 women) in a rural area of Northern Japan. These organochlorine levels were measured using gas-chromatography mass-spectrometry. By a self-administered dietary history questionnaire, the usual dietary intake was estimated. Their median levels (range) were as follows: beta-HCH, 0.50 (0.05-1.50); HCB, 0.20 (0.02-0.70); and total DDT (p,p'-DDE + p,p'-DDT), 5.0 (0.9-31.0) ng/ml serum. Levels of p,p'-DDD were detected in only seven subjects (0.05-0.6 ng/ml serum). The beta-HCH levels were increased with rice and milk intakes, but the least squares means were not simply increased according to the quartile of the intakes. Concerning HCB, fish intake showed a borderline significant correlation (0.20, P = 0.052). In terms of total DDT, intakes of meat, fish, vegetable and milk showed a positive relationship, although none of them provided statistically significant results. No other statistically significant relation between any organochlorines and any food intakes examined was observed in this study. The present study suggests that organochlorine compounds are transported into the human body via foods in the Japanese population. Their effects on health should thus be investigated and monitored.
11886879	The process of photorespiration diminishes the efficiency of CO(2) assimilation and yield of C(3)-crops such as wheat, rice, soybean or potato, which are important for feeding the growing world population. Photorespiration starts with the competitive inhibition of CO(2) fixation by O(2) at the active site of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) and can result in a loss of up to 50% of the CO(2) fixed in ambient air. By contrast, C(4) plants, such as maize, sugar cane and Sorghum, possess a CO(2) concentrating mechanism, by which atmospheric CO(2) is bound to C(4)-carbon compounds and shuttled from the mesophyll cells where the prefixation of bicarbonate occurs via phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) into the gas-tight bundle-sheath cells, where the bound carbon is released again as CO(2) and enters the Calvin cycle. However, the anatomical division into mesophyll and bundle-sheaths cells ("Kranz"-anatomy) appears not to be a prerequisite for the operation of a CO(2) concentrating mechanism. Submerged aquatic macrophytes, for instance, can induce a C(4)-like CO(2) concentrating mechanism in only one cell type when CO(2) becomes limiting. A single cell C(4)-mechanism has also been reported recently for a terrestrial chenopod. For over 10 years researchers in laboratories around the world have attempted to improve photosynthesis and crop yield by introducing a single cell C(4)-cycle in C(3) plants by a transgenic approach. In the meantime, there has been substantial progress in overexpressing the key enzymes of the C(4) cycle in rice, potato, and tobacco. In this review there will be a focus on biochemical and physiological consequences of the overexpression of C(4)-cycle genes in C(3) plants. Bearing in mind that C(4)-cycle enzymes are also present in C(3) plants, the pitfalls encountered when C(3) metabolism is perturbed by the overexpression of individual C(4) genes will also be discussed.
11887422	Twenty young Kirdi (West African Dwarf) rams, averaging 22 kg live weight and 15 months of age, were randomly assigned to four feeding groups of 5 animals each. The groups were subjected to an 8-week feeding trial to determine the effect of different protein supplements on their voluntary intake of rice straw and on their performance. The animals in one of the groups were maintained on a daily basal diet of rice straw given ad libitum and 250 g of rice bran per animal (control). Other groups were fed the basal diet, supplemented with 300 g of groundnut haulms (GH diet), 45 g of cotton seed cake (CSC diet) or 210 g of chopped cowpea vines (CPV diet) per animal per day. The average daily weight gains of the animals feeding on the control, GH, CSC and CPV diets were 20.00, 48.93, 52.14 and 49.29 g, respectively. The gains in live weight of the supplemented groups did not differ significantly (p > 0.05), but there was a difference (p < 0.05) in live weight gain between the supplemented groups and the control. The differences in intake of rice straw among the groups were highly significant (p < 0.01). Cotton seed cake increased (p < 0.01) the intake, while feeding crop residues tended to depress the intake of rice straw. Variations in the height at withers, heart girth and scapulo-ischial length did not differ significantly (p > 0.05) among the groups. In terms of live weight gain and intake of rice straw, cotton seed cake was the most effective supplement, but, since the crop residues are more readily available to farmers in this area of the country, they merit more attention.
11887755	Biotechnology strategies are now available to improve the amount and availability of nutrients in plant crops. Those strategies include simple plant selection for varieties with high nutrient density in the seeds, cross-breeding for incorporating a desired trait within a plant, and genetic engineering to manipulate the nutrient content of the plant. In plant cross-breeding, all genes of the parent plants are combined and the progeny have both desirable and undesirable traits. To eliminate undesirable traits, plant breeders "back-cross" the new plant varieties with other plants over several generations. This technique, called hybridization, has been used to create varieties of low-phytate corn, barley, and rice. Using the techniques of genetic engineering, the gene(s) encoding for a desired trait(s) in a plant are introduced in a precise and controlled manner within a relatively short period of time. Golden rice, containing carotenoids, and rice with higher amounts of iron, are two examples of genetically engineered plants for improved nutrition. Genetic engineering has tremendous potential for revolutionizing nutrition. However, public concerns regarding safety, appearance, and ethics must be overcome before these products can be effectively introduced into the food supply.
11889767	We report a 68-year-old woman who developed progressive dementia and parkinsonism. She was well until 1990 when she was 58 years of age. She started to show memory loss. Four years later, she developed difficulty in dressing and behavioral problems such as eating rice with her hands, going out of her house without purposes, and difficulty in finding the rest room in her house. She was admitted to the neurology service of Hatsuishi Hospital on January 19, 1996, when she was 64 years of the age. On admission, she was alert but markedly demented. The score of Hansegawa Dementia Scale was 0/30. She was unable to make any coherent conversation. She appeared to have dressing apraxia but did not appear to have aphasia. Cranial nerves were intact. She walked in small steps with stooped posture. She did not have motor weakness but she showed plastic rigidity in all four limbs. No tremor or ataxia was noted. Deep tendon reflexes were within normal limits but the plantar response was extensor bilaterally. She continued to deteriorate after admission. In May of 1998, she started to fall. In June of 1998, she had a generalized convulsion. In January of 1999, she became unable to take foods orally and a gastrostomy was placed. She expired on May 29, 1990. She was discussed in a neurological CPC and the chief discussant arrived at the conclusion that the patient had Alzheimer's disease. The question was whether her parkinsonism was a part of her Alzheimer's disease or she had an additional disease to explain her parkinsonism. Post-mortem examination revealed moderate to marked atrophy of the frontal and the temporal lobes as well as in the limbic areas with dilatation of the lateral ventricles. Marked neuronal loss was noted in the CA 1 to the subiculum region with gliosis. Neurofibrillary tangles were seen in the remaining neurons. Neuropil threads were seen by Gallyas-Braak staining. Similar changes were seen in the parahippocampal gyrus and in the entorhinal cortex. Senile plaques were seen in the insular cortex and in other cortical areas. Cortical type Lewy bodies were seen in the cingulate cortex. The Meynert nucleus showed marked neuronal loss and gliosis. The substantia nigra and the locus coeruleus showed moderate loss of pigmented neurons. Lewy bodies were seen in these regions. The dorsal motor nucleus of the vagal nerve was retained, however, one Lewy body was observed. Pathologic diagnosis was Alzheimer's disease plus Parkinson's disease. It is an interesting question whether or not her parkinsonism was due to nigral lesion or frontal lesions. It is known that parkinsonism may complicate in advanced Alzheimer's disease not necessarily due to nigral lesion. On the other hand, in incidental Lewy body disease, the substantia nigra shows mild Parkinson's disease-like change without clinical parkinsonism. This patient appeared to have been a true complication of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
11890465	In the relatively short time since their commercial introduction in 1996, genetically modified (GM) crops have been rapidly adopted in the United States GM crops are regulated through a coordinated framework developed in 1992 and administered by three agencies-the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) that ensures the products are safe to grow, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that ensures the products are safe for the environment, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that ensures the products are safe to eat. Rigorous food and environmental safety assessments must be completed before GM crops can be commercialized. Fifty-one products have been reviewed by the FDA, including several varieties of corn, soybeans, canola, cotton, rice, sugar beets, potatoes, tomatoes, squash, papaya, and flax. Because FDA considers these crops "substantially equivalent" to their conventional counterparts, no special labeling is required for GM crops in the United States and they are managed as commodities with no segregation or identity preservation. GM crops have thus made their way through commodity distribution channels into thousands of ingredients used in processed foods. It has been estimated that 70% to 85% of processed foods on supermarket shelves in the United States today contain one or more ingredients potentially derived from GM crops. The food industry and retail industry have been monitoring the opinions of their consumers on the GM issue for the past several years. Numerous independent groups have also surveyed consumer concerns about GM foods. The results of these surveys are shared and discussed here.
11891237	Deletion line-based high-density physical maps revealed that the wheat (Triticum aestivum) genome is partitioned into gene-rich and -poor compartments. Available deletion lines have bracketed the gene-containing regions to about 10% of the genome. Emerging sequence data suggest that these may further be partitioned into "mini" gene-rich and gene-poor regions. An average of about 10% of each gene-rich region seem to contain genes. Sequence analyses in various species suggest that uneven distribution of genes may be a characteristic of all grasses and perhaps all higher organisms. Comparison of the physical maps with genetic linkage maps showed that recombination in wheat and barley (Hordeum vulgare) is confined to the gene-containing regions. Number of genes, gene density, and the extent of recombination vary greatly among the gene-rich regions. The gene order, relative region size, and recombination are highly conserved within the tribe Triticeae and moderately conserved within the family. Gene-poor regions are composed of retrotransposon-like non-transcribing repeats and pseudogenes. Direct comparisons of orthologous regions indicated that gene density in wheat is about one-half compared with rice (Oryza sativa). Genome size difference between wheat and rice is, therefore, mainly because of amplification of the gene-poor regions. Presence of species-, genera-, and family-specific repeats reveal a repeated invasion of the genomes by different retrotransposons over time. Preferential transposition to adjacent locations and presence of vital genes flanking a gene-rich region may have restricted retrotransposon amplification to gene-poor regions, resulting into tandem blocks of non-transcribing repeats. Insertional inactivation by adjoining retro-elements and selection seem to have played a major role in stabilizing genomes.
11891266	Arsenic (As) finds its way into soils used for rice (Oryza sativa) cultivation through polluted irrigation water, and through historic contamination with As-based pesticides. As is known to be present as a number of chemical species in such soils, so we wished to investigate how these species were accumulated by rice. As species found in soil solution from a greenhouse experiment where rice was irrigated with arsenate contaminated water were arsenite, arsenate, dimethylarsinic acid, and monomethylarsonic acid. The short-term uptake kinetics for these four As species were determined in 7-d-old excised rice roots. High-affinity uptake (0-0.0532 mM) for arsenite and arsenate with eight rice varieties, covering two growing seasons, rice var. Boro (dry season) and rice var. Aman (wet season), showed that uptake of both arsenite and arsenate by Boro varieties was less than that of Aman varieties. Arsenite uptake was active, and was taken up at approximately the same rate as arsenate. Greater uptake of arsenite, compared with arsenate, was found at higher substrate concentration (low-affinity uptake system). Competitive inhibition of uptake with phosphate showed that arsenite and arsenate were taken up by different uptake systems because arsenate uptake was strongly suppressed in the presence of phosphate, whereas arsenite transport was not affected by phosphate. At a slow rate, there was a hyperbolic uptake of monomethylarsonic acid, and limited uptake of dimethylarsinic acid.
11893482	Stabilized rice bran (SRB), a source of complex carbohydrates, tocols, gamma-oryzanols, and polyphenols, was treated with carbohydrases and heat to yield two fractions, rice bran water solubles (RBWS), and rice bran fiber concentrates (RBFC). Stabilized rice bran and its fractions were fed for 60 days to insulin-dependent and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM = Type I and NIDDM = Type II) subjects to determine possible effects on serum hemoglobin, carbohydrate and lipid parameters. The Type I subjects (n = 22, 26, and 20) fed Stabilized rice bran, rice bran water solubles, and rice bran fiber concentrates plus AHA Step-1 diet reduced glycosylated hemoglobin 1%, 11%, and 10%, respectively. The fasting serum glucose levels were also reduced significantly (P < 0.01) with stabilized rice bran (9%), rice bran water solubles (29%), and rice bran fiber concentrates (19%).The Type II subjects (n = 31, and 26) fed rice bran water solubles and rice bran fiber concentrates plus AHA Step-1 diet had decreased levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (15% and 11%) and fasting glucose (33% and 22%; P < 0.001), respectively. Serum insulin levels were increased (4%) with rice bran water solubles in both types of diabetes. The reduction of glycosylated hemoglobin and a slight increase in insulin levels indicate that consumption of rice bran water solubles can control blood glucose levels in human diabetes. Serum total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and triglycerides levels were reduced with rice bran fiber concentrates in the Type I (10, 16, 10, 7%) and Type II groups (12, 15, 10, 8%), respectively. These results indicate that rice bran water solubles significantly reduces hyperglycemia (P < 0.01), whereas rice bran fiber concentrates reduces hyperlipidemia (P < 0.05) in both types of diabetes. Therefore, these natural products can be used as nutritional supplements for the control of both types of diabetes mellitus in humans.
11894059
11901130	The Sh2/A1 orthologous region of maize, rice, and sorghum contains five genes in the order Sh2, X1, X2, and two A1 homologs in tandem duplication. The Sh2 and A1 homologs are separated by approximately 20 kb in rice and sorghum and by approximately 140 kb in maize. We analyzed the fate of the Sh2/A1 region in large-genome species of the Triticeae (wheat, barley, and rye). In the Triticeae, synteny in the Sh2/A1 region was interrupted by a break between the X1 and X2 genes. The A1 and X2 genes remained colinear in homeologous chromosomes as in other grasses. The Sh2 and X1 orthologs also remained colinear but were translocated to a nonhomeologous chromosome. Gene X1 was duplicated on two nonhomeologous chromosomes, and surprisingly, a paralog shared homology much higher than that of the orthologous copy to the X1 gene of other grasses. No tandem duplication of A1 homologs was detected but duplication of A1 on a nonhomeologous barley chromosome 6H was observed. Intergenic distances expanded greatly in wheat compared to rice. Wheat and barley diverged from each other 12 million years ago and both show similar changes in the Sh2/A1 region, suggesting that the break in colinearity as well as X1 duplications and genome expansion occurred in a common ancestor of the Triticeae species.
11901997	Using the mature embryo of a susceptible rice variety Minghui 63 as the explant, we have obtained a somaclonal mutant HX-3 through selection in vitro, which has showed resistance to bacterial blight. In 8 successive years, the resistance of R1 to R9 generations of HX-3 was identified by ZJ173, a typical bacterial blight strain in Yangtsu River valley, and the results showed that the resistance of HX-3 was stable and heritable. Genetic analysis also indicated that the resistance of HX-3 to bacterial blight was under a dominant gene controlling. Using 32 bacterial blight strains collected in China, Philippines and Japan, the resistance spectrum of HX-3 and other 13 testers with different major dominant resistance genes were tested. Results of 2 years (1999-2000) experiment showed that HX-3 had a broad resistance spectrum, which seemed to be different with those of the other dominant resistance genes identified. Allelic tests were also conducted by crossing HX-3 with IRBB4, IRBB7, CBB12 and IRBB21, and the F2 populations of each of the 4 crosses demonstrated resistant and susceptible plant segregation, indicating that the resistance gene in HX-3 different from Xa-4, Xa-7, Xa-12 and Xa-21. All these results proved that there was a new resistance gene in HX-3. We have designated the new gene as Xa-25(t).
11901998	In the study, ten panicle traits associated with yield sink size were measured in a recombinant inbred population derived from Zhenshan 97 x Minghui 63. Generally, spikelets per panicle were more closely correlated with number of secondary branch per panicle, spikelets on secondary branch per secondary branch, and spikelet density. A total of 53 QTL were detected for ten traits in two years. Approximately 43.4% QTLs were detected in both two years, suggesting environmental effects on traits. Five chromosomal regions (G359-RG532 and C567-C86-RG236 on chromosome 1, R712-RM29 on chromosome 2, P-RG424 on chromosome 6, C148-RM258 on chromosome 10) were detected to have effects on multiple panicle traits. QTLs for traits, which were correlated, were generally localized in similar chromosomal regions, suggesting that pleiotropy and (or) linkage are the molecular basis of relationship between them. A large number of digenic interactions were detected, 18.2% of which were detected simultaneously in both two years. The proportion of common interactions was trait-depended, ranging 8.7% for spikelets on secondary branch per secondary branch to 32.6% for panicle length. Approximately 26.7% of common two-locus combinations had pleiotropic effects by simultaneously influencing two or more traits. Overall, the results indicate that each panicle trait is controlled by several QTLs, genotype x environment interaction, and a large number of epistatic interactions.
11902017	The purposes of this descriptive pilot study were to: 1) examine medication knowledge and behavior of older African-American adult day care clients; and, 2) describe how community health nurses working in adult day care centers can improve medication regimen compliance by utilizing the Rice Model of Dynamic Self-Determination. Convenience sampling was used to recruit 40 older African-Americans attending adult day care at two urban geriatric centers. Findings from this study suggested that the older African-Americans sampled needed assistance from adult children or other caregivers to follow their medication regimen as evidenced by not being able to open a pill bottle, or not having a system to take medications, having trouble swallowing their pills, and obtaining prescribed medications from the drug store. Further findings from this study also suggested that among these older African-American subjects that there was an enormous knowledge deficit regarding side effects of medications and usefulness of medications. In addition, the Rice Model was applied to a case study to illustrate how community heath nurses can improve medication regimen compliance for adult day care clients.
11902947	The biological formation of a potent flavor compound, 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, in the aromatic rice variety (Khao Dawk Mali 105) was studied in seedlings and callus of the rice. Concentrations of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline were determined by GC-MS-SIM using an isotope dilution method. Increases in concentration occurred when proline, ornithine, and glutamate were present in solution, with proline increasing the concentration by more than 3-fold compared to that of the control. Results of tracer experiments using (15)N-proline, (15)N-glycine, and proline-1-(13)C indicated that the nitrogen source of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline was proline, whereas the carbon source of the acetyl group was not the carboxyl group of proline. 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline was formed in the aromatic rice at temperatures below that of thermal generation in bread baking, and formed in the aerial part of aromatic rice from proline as the nitrogen precursor.
11902949	Annatto is a natural food colorant extracted from the seeds of the Bixa orellana L. plant. Annatto is used in Latin American cuisine to add a deep red color as well as distinctive flavor notes to fish, meat, and rice dishes. In the United States, annatto extracts are primarily used to impart orange/yellow hues to cheese and other dairy foods. The objective of this study was to identify and compare volatile compounds present in water- and oil-soluble annatto extracts. Volatile compounds were recovered using dynamic headspace-solvent desorption sampling and analyzed using GC-MS. Compounds were identified by comparison to a mass spectral database, Kovats indexes, and retention times of known standards. Of the 107 compounds detected, 56 compounds were tentatively identified and 51 were positively identified. Volatile profile differences exist between water- and oil- soluble extracts, and annatto extracts contain odorants with the potential to influence food aroma.
11904292	Transient influx of Ca(2+) constitutes an early event in the signaling cascades that trigger plant defense responses. However, the downstream components of defense-associated Ca(2+) signaling are largely unknown. Because Ca(2+) signals are mediated by Ca(2+)-binding proteins, including calmodulin (CaM), identification and characterization of CaM-binding proteins elicited by pathogens should provide insights into the mechanism by which Ca(2+) regulates defense responses. In this study, we isolated a gene encoding rice Mlo (Oryza sativa Mlo; OsMlo) using a protein-protein interaction-based screening of a cDNA expression library constructed from pathogen-elicited rice suspension cells. OsMlo has a molecular mass of 62 kDa and shares 65% sequence identity and scaffold topology with barley Mlo, a heptahelical transmembrane protein known to function as a negative regulator of broad spectrum disease resistance and leaf cell death. By using gel overlay assays, we showed that OsMlo produced in Escherichia coli binds to soybean CaM isoform-1 (SCaM-1) in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. We located a 20-amino acid CaM-binding domain (CaMBD) in the OsMlo C-terminal cytoplasmic tail that is necessary and sufficient for Ca(2+)-dependent CaM complex formation. Specific binding of the conserved CaMBD to CaM was corroborated by site-directed mutagenesis, a gel mobility shift assay, and a competition assay with a Ca(2+)/CaM-dependent enzyme. Expression of OsMlo was strongly induced by a fungal pathogen and by plant defense signaling molecules. We propose that binding of Ca(2+)-loaded CaM to the C-terminal tail may be a common feature of Mlo proteins.
11905964	Wheat FKBP73 (wFKBP73) belongs to the FK506-binding protein (FKBP) family which, in common with the cyclophilin and parvulin families, possesses peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) activity. Wheat FKBP73 has been shown to contain three FKBP12-like domains, a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) via which it binds heat shock protein 90 and a calmodulin-binding domain (CaMbd). In this study we investigated: (1) the contribution of the N-terminal and C-terminal moieties of wFKBP73 to its biological activity by over-expression of the prolyl isomerase domains in transgenic rice, and (2) the biochemical characteristics of the C-terminal moiety. The recombinant wFKBP73 was found to bind calmodulin via the CaMbd and to be present mainly as a dimer in solution. The dimerization was abrogated when 138 amino acids from the C-terminal half were deleted. Expression of the full-length FKBP73 produced fertile rice plants, whereas the expression of the peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase domains in transgenic rice resulted in male-sterile plants. The male sterility was expressed at various stages of anther development with arrest of normal pollen development occurring after separation of the microspores from the tetrads. Although the direct cause of the dominant male sterility is not yet defined, we suggest that it is associated with a novel interaction of the prolyl isomerase domains with anther specific target proteins.
11906347
11906838	The International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) was established in 1960 by the Rockefeller (New York, NY, USA) and Ford Foundations (New York, NY, USA) in response to food scarcity problems in the developing world. Today, it is the world's leading international research and training center for rice. Based in the Philippines, with operations in 11 other countries, it is one of 16 Future Harvest Centers funded by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), an association of public and private donor agencies.
11907054	The weather loach Misgurnus anguillicaudatus inhabits rice fields that experience drought in summer and ammonia loading during agricultural fertilisation. Exposure of specimens to ammonia led to the accumulation of ammonia in muscle, liver and blood. The level of ammonia reached in the plasma was the highest reported among fishes. Ammonia was not detoxified to urea, and urea excretion rate was unaffected by ammonia exposure. Fish acidified the water to reduce ammonia loading. Ammonia loading, unlike aerial exposure, did not induce glutamine synthesis, and there was no accumulation of glutamine. This is a unique observation different from those reported for other fishes in the literature. An initial switch to partial amino acid catabolism led to the accumulation of alanine and was probably associated with a decreased rate of ammonia production. Aerial exposure led to decreases in rates of ammonia and urea excretion, as well as the accumulation of tissue ammonia. As the internal ammonia levels increased, M. anguillicaudatus was able to excrete some ammonia in the gaseous form (NH(3)). The percentage of ammonia excreted as NH(3) increased with time of exposure and with increasing temperature. It appears that air-breathing through the gut is involved, with the anterior portion of the digestive tract playing a central role: it became significantly more alkaline in fish exposed to air or to environmental ammonia. The skin, which also became more alkaline during air exposure, may also be involved in ammonia volatilization in air-exposed fish. This represents the first report of a fish using volatilization of NH(3) as part of a defence against ammonia toxicity. It can be concluded that the main strategy adopted by M. anguillicaudatus confronted with ammonia loading or air exposure is to tolerate high ammonia levels in the tissues. During periods of elevated tissue ammonia levels, some ammonia is lost by volatilization via air-breathing using the gut. In addition, some ammonia may be lost across the skin during air exposure.
11908167	We report three new cases of patients presenting scurvy. In the year 2000 this rare disease still occurs in France. The three patients, 2 men and a woman respectively 51, 50, and 73 years-old were alcoholics, and lived alone in difficult social conditions. Dietary survey indicated in the 3 cases inadequate vitamin C intake, and a regimen including solely bread, rice, pasta, and packet soup devoid of fresh vegetables and fruit. The cutaneous findings attributed to scurvy were: in the first patient, a woody inflammatory and painful oedema of the left leg associated with perifollicular petechial haemorrhages over the lower limbs, and hyperpigmentation of the facial skin with slate-gray spotty pigmentation of the tongue (pseudo-addisonian hyperpigmentation); in the second patient, an accentuation of a pre-existing acne becoming more inflammatory and extensive; and in the third patient, a diffuse petechial eruption on the abdomen and lower extremities. The diagnosis of scurvy was confirmed by low plasma ascorbic acid levels (< 6 mumol/l). All patients were treated with 1 to 2 g of oral ascorbic acid daily for 2 weeks resulting in rapid and dramatic response. Scurvy is a rare disease in industrialized nations. Its incidence is unknown because of absence of total census. Dietary vitamin C deficiency represents the main risk factor exposing for scurvy among adults, often alcoholics and living in social isolation. Cutaneous features supporting the diagnosis of scurvy are described in our observations. The recognition of these cutaneous abnormalities is important because their association can be misleading, and erroneously interpreted as a sign of systemic vasculitis, or connective tissue disease. The diagnosis of scurvy is confirmed by the measurement of plasma ascorbic acid levels. Treatment is simple and based on the administration of vitamin C, which results in dramatic improvement.
11908517	Plant homeobox genes of the class 1 knox (knotted1-like) type are involved in the regulation of shoot apical meristem formation and function. Their expression generally occurs either throughout the meristem or specifically at the lateral organ boundaries. Down-regulation in the organ primordia is tightly controlled and misexpression in leaves leads to a perturbed development. Here, the transcriptional control of two rice knox genes, Oskn2 and Oskn3, was addressed, showing that the promoter sequences of both genes mediate the initial down-regulation during lateral organ formation, but are insufficient to keep expression in lateral organs stably off. Therefore, maintenance of the repressed state requires control elements outside the promoter regions. Ectopic expression of Oskn2 or Oskn3 induced similar defects in panicle branching. internode elongation and leaf patterning. However, small differences suggested that their target gene specificities are not completely overlapping. This was supported by the observation that Oskn3 protein but not Oskn2 could interact with two reported recognition sequences of a KNOX protein from barley. Finally, protein-protein interactions may contribute to the functioning of KNOX proteins, as the ability of Oskn3 and Oskn2 to form heterodimers could be demonstrated.
11908663	We have utilized an efficient method to enrich cDNA libraries for novel genes and genes responsive to drought stress in rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica). We separately constructed standard and normalized cDNA libraries from leaf tissue of rice seedlings grown under controlled drought stress. Sequencing from the 3' end was performed on 1000 clones from the normalized leaf cDNA library and 200 clones from the standard leaf cDNA library. For the first 200 clones, the clone redundancy in the non-normalized library was about 10%, compared with 3.5% in the normalized cDNA library. Comparison of these cDNAs with the sequences in public databases revealed that 28.2% of the expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from the normalized library were novel. Clones from the standard and normalized leaf libraries and a root library uncovered numerous cDNAs that are highly homologous to known drought-responsive genes including those that encode metallothioneins, late embroyonic abundant (LEA) proteins, heat-shock proteins, cytochrome P450 enzymes, catalases, peroxidases, kinases, phosphatases, and transcription factors.
11909851	Long-chain fatty acids can be metabolized to C(n)(-1) aldehydes by alpha-oxidation in plants. The reaction mechanism of the enzyme has not been elucidated. In this study, a complete nucleotide sequence of fatty acid alpha-oxygenase gene in rice plants (Oryza sativa) was isolated. The deduced amino acid sequence showed some similarity with those of mammalian prostaglandin H synthases (PGHSs). The gene was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to apparently homogeneous state. It showed the highest activity with linoleic acid and predominantly formed 2-hydroperoxide of the fatty acid (C(n)), which is then spontaneously decarboxylated to form corresponding C(n)(-1) aldehyde. With linoleic or linoleic acids as a substrate, rice alpha-oxygenase formed no product having a lambda(max) at approximately 234 nm, which indicated that the enzyme could not oxygenize the pentadiene system in the substrate. The spectroscopic feature of the purified enzyme in its ferrous state is similar to that of mammalian PGHS, whereas that of dithionite-reduced state showed significant difference. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that His-158, Tyr-380, and Ser-558 were essential for the alpha-oxygenase activity. These residues are conserved in PGHS and known as a heme ligand, a source of a radical species to initiate oxygenation reaction and a residue involved in substrate binding, respectively. This finding suggested that the initial step of the oxygenation reaction in alpha-oxygenase has a high similarity with that of PGHS. The rice alpha-oxygenase activity was inhibited by imidazole but hardly inhibited by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and flurbiprofen, which are known as typical PGHS inhibitors. In addition, peroxidase activity could not be detected with alpha-oxygenase when palmitic acid 2-hydroperoxide was used as a substrate. From these findings, the catalytic resemblance between alpha-oxygenase and PGHS seems to be evident, although there still are differences in their substrate recognitions and peroxidation activities.
11910000
11910001	To determine the chromosomal positions of expressed rice genes, we have performed an expressed sequence tag (EST) mapping project by polymerase chain reaction-based yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) screening. Specific primers designed from 6713 unique EST sequences derived from 19 cDNA libraries were screened on 4387 YAC clones and used for map construction in combination with genetic analysis. Here, we describe the establishment of a comprehensive YAC-based rice transcript map that contains 6591 EST sites and covers 80.8% of the rice genome. Chromosomes 1, 2, and 3 have relatively high EST densities, approximately twice those of chromosomes 11 and 12, and contain 41% of the total EST sites on the map. Most of the EST-dense regions are distributed on the distal regions of each chromosome arm. Genomic regions flanking the centromeres for most of the chromosomes have lower EST density. Recombination frequency in these regions is suppressed significantly. Our EST mapping also shows that 40% of the assigned ESTs occupy only approximately 21% of the entire genome. The rice transcript map has been a valuable resource for genetic study, gene isolation, and genome sequencing at the Rice Genome Research Program and should become an important tool for comparative analysis of chromosome structure and evolution among the cereals.
11910002	Rice was chosen as a model organism for genome sequencing because of its economic importance, small genome size, and syntenic relationship with other cereal species. We have constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome fingerprint-based physical map of the rice genome to facilitate the whole-genome sequencing of rice. Most of the rice genome (approximately 90.6%) was anchored genetically by overgo hybridization, DNA gel blot hybridization, and in silico anchoring. Genome sequencing data also were integrated into the rice physical map. Comparison of the genetic and physical maps reveals that recombination is suppressed severely in centromeric regions as well as on the short arms of chromosomes 4 and 10. This integrated high-resolution physical map of the rice genome will greatly facilitate whole-genome sequencing by helping to identify a minimum tiling path of clones to sequence. Furthermore, the physical map will aid map-based cloning of agronomically important genes and will provide an important tool for the comparative analysis of grass genomes.
11910009	Suc, an end product of photosynthesis, is metabolized by Suc synthase in sink organs as an initial step in the biosynthesis of storage products. Suc synthase activity is known to be regulated by reversible phosphorylation, but the details of this process are unclear at present. Rice SPK, a calcium-dependent protein kinase, is expressed uniquely in the endosperm of immature seed, and its involvement in the biosynthetic pathways of storage products was suggested. Antisense SPK transformants lacked the ability to accumulate storage products such as starch, but produced watery seed with a large amount of Suc instead, as the result of an inhibition of Suc degradation. Analysis of in vitro phosphorylation indicated that SPK phosphorylated specifically a Ser residue in Suc synthase that has been shown to be important for its activity in the degradation of Suc. This finding suggests that SPK is involved in the activation of Suc synthase. It appears that SPK is a Suc synthase kinase that may be important for supplying substrates for the biosynthesis of storage products.
11910715	To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two oral rehydration techniques. A randomized clinical trial was conducted at the oral rehydration unit of Hospital Infantil de Mexico "Federico Gomez", between September 1998 and June 1999. Forty patients five-year old and younger children, dehydrated due to acute diarrhea, were given oral rehydration solution (ORS) ad libitum (AL group); another forty patients received ORS in fractionated doses (FD group). Clinical characteristics were similar in both groups. Results are presented as means, standard deviations and medians, according the distribution of simple and relative frequencies. The mean stool output in the AL group was 11.0 +/- 7.5 g/kg/h; as compared to 7.1 +/- 7.4 in the FD group (p = 0.03). ORS intake, rehydration time, and mean diuresis values were similar in both groups (p > 0.05). Six patients in the AL group and five in the FD group had high stool output (> 10 g/kg/h), that improved after administration of rice starch solution. One patient in the AL group and two in the FD group had persistent vomiting that improved with gastroclisis. No patient required intravenous rehydration. These results suggest that ORS administration ad libitum under supervision, is a technique as safe and effective as the fractionated doses technique, for the treatment of dehydrated children due to acute diarrhea.
11911477	Several chitinases were expressed in a rice cell suspension culture and detected in the medium. One of them, designated as RCB4, was isolated 248 fold from the culture filtrate to homogeneity by 70% ammonium sulfate precipitation, DEAE-cellulose, CM-cellulose, Sephadex G-75 column chromatography, and native gel slicing. RCB4 had a molecular mass of 32 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The optimum temperature was 40 degrees C, and 96% of its activity still remained at 60 degrees C. The optimum pH was 4, and 95% of its activity was maintained at pH 2. Using a substrate (GlcNAc)6, the Km and Vmax values of RCB4 were 0.53 mM and 11.1 mM/min, respectively. The N-terminal and internal amino acid sequences of RCB4 were determined to be VNSNLFRDYIGA and MALWA, respectively. A cDNA (C12523) clone that contained the N-terminal and internal amino acid sequences of RCB4 was obtained, sequenced, and renamed RCB41. RCB41 encoded 307 amino acid protein with a signal peptide of 25 amino acids and showed a 45% similarity to gladiolus chitinase GBC-a, one of the class III chitinase family. The expression of RCB4l in E. coli showed that RCB41 encodes a chitinase.
11911524	The distributions of radionuclides in plant components as to radionuclide transfer to animals are important for understanding the dynamics of radionuclides in an agricultural field. Most of the non-edible parts in these components are returned to the soil as organic fertilizer where they may again be utilized in the soil-plant pathway and/or are mixed with feed for livestock. Rice plants were grown in an experimental field and separated at harvest into different components, including polished rice, rice bran, hull, leaves, stem and root, and then the distributions of radioactive 137Cs, stable 133Cs and K in these components were determined. The distribution of 137Cs in polished rice and rice bran was similar to that of 133Cs, while that of K was different. The concentration ratios of 133Cs/K in leaf blade positions increased with aging, which means that the translocation rate of 133Cs in rice plants was slower than that of K. At harvest the distribution of dry weight in polished rice to entire rice plants was 34%, and the distributions of 133Cs in the polished rice and the non-edible parts were 7 and 93%, respectively, whereas those of K in the polished rice and the non-edible parts were 2 and 98%, respectively. Findings suggest that the transfer and distribution of 133Cs, not of K, provide better information on the long-term fate of 137Cs in an agricultural environment.
11911608	The present study was aimed at understanding the role of cyanobacteria and Azolla in methane production and oxidation in laboratory simulation experiments using soil samples from rice fields. All the seven cyanobacterial strains tested effected a significant decrease in the headspace concentration of methane in flooded soil, incubated under light. Synechocystis sp. was the most effective in retarding methane concentration by 10-20 fold over that in controls without cyanobacteria. The decrease in the headspace concentration of methane was negligible in nonsterile soil samples, inoculated with Synechocystis sp. and then incubated under dark. Moist soil cores (0-5 cm depth), collected from rice fields that had been treated with urea in combination with a cyanobacterial mixture, Azolla microphylla, or cyanobacterial mixture plus A. microphylla, effected distinctly more rapid decrease in the headspace concentration of methane added at 200 microl(-1) than did the soil cores from plots treated with urea alone (30, 60, 90 and 120 kg N ha(-1)), irrespective of the rate of chemical nitrogen applied to rice fields. Besides, soil cores from plots treated with urea alone at 60, 90 and 120 kg N ha(-1) oxidised methane more rapidly than did the core samples from plots treated with urea alone at 30kg N ha(-1). Cyanobacteria and A. microphylla, applied to flood water, appear to play a major role in mitigation of methane emission from rice fields-through enhanced methane oxidation.
11912234	Immunocytological studies in this laboratory have suggested that NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT; EC 1.4.1.14) in developing organs of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Sasanishiki) is involved in the utilization of glutamine remobilized from senescing organs through the phloem. Because most of the indica cultivars contained less NADH-GOGAT in their sink organs than japonica cultivars, over-expression of NADH-GOGAT gene from japonica rice was investigated using Kasalath, an indica cultivar. Several T0 transgenic Kasalath lines over-producing NADH-GOGAT under the control of a NADH-GOGAT promoter of Sasanishiki, a japonica rice, showed an increase in grain weight (80% as a maximum), indicating that NADH-GOGAT is indeed a key step for nitrogen utilization and grain filling in rice. A genetic approach using 98 backcross-inbred lines (BC(1)F(6)) developed between Nipponbare (a japonica rice) and Kasalath were employed to detect putative quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with the contents of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1; EC 6.3.1.2), which is probably involved in the export of nitrogen from senescing organs and those of NADH-GOGAT. Immunoblotting analyses showed transgressive segregations toward lower or greater contents of these enzyme proteins in these BC(1)F(6). Seven chromosomal QTL regions were detected for GS1 protein content and six for NADH-GOGAT. Some of these QTLs were located in QTL regions for various biochemical and agronomic traits affected by nitrogen recycling. The relationships between the genetic variability of complex agronomic traits and traits for these two enzymes are discussed.
11912503	Cryogenic storage of plant cells allows the long-term maintenance of valuable genotypes. Cryopreservation of calli and cell suspensions is often performed using cryoprotectants and slow cooling rates. Rice calli (Oryza sativa L.) were cryopreserved by this procedure as well as by direct immersion in liquid nitrogen without cryoprotection. Subsequently, the characteristics of the recovered cells as well as the effects of putative cryoselection were investigated by microscopic observations and flow cytometric analyses. For this purpose, protoplasts were prepared from calli that had been cryopreserved by direct plunging into liquid nitrogen and from their unfrozen controls. Results show that direct immersion in liquid nitrogen of calli pre-treated with abscisic acid is a fast and highly efficient freezing procedure that maintains the main characteristics of the cell populations and appears to increase their metabolic activity
1191263	The presence of ATP sulphurylase activity in the 30000g supernatant fraction of rice-root homogenate has been demonstrated. Studies of the effects of adenosine and its nucleotides on the enzymic activity showed that AMP activated but that ADP and adenosine inhibited the enzyme.
11913348	Migration might have considerable implications for nutrition and consequently for health. Because of the higher demands of growth, children are especially vulnerable to changes in nutrition. In order to get an insight into the need for a special nutrition policy for Turkish ad Moroccan children, the dietary habits and food consumption of 8-year-old Turkish and Moroccan children in The Netherlands were assessed. The results showed that the diet of these children was more compatible with the Dutch recommendations for a prudent diet than the diet of Dutch children from a similar socio-economic background. Quite a few of the basic food items Turkish and Moroccan children are accustomed to eat, like rice, cereals, bread, pulses and vegetables, contain valuable nutrients. So, an increased consumption of these items was recommended. The intake of calcium and riboflavin of Turkish and Moroccan children was low and so the use of dairy products--preferably in fermented form like yoghurt--was recommended. This would also enhance the Vitamin D status.
11913766	The cytotoxicity and secondary metabolites of 28 Norwegian strains of Fusarium equiseti have been characterized. Trichothecenes and fusarochromanone (FUCH) in rice culture extracts of the strains were analysed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The following metabolites were found in all isolates: FUCH, nivalenol (NIV), scirpentriol (SCIRP), 4-acetylnivalenol (4-ac-NIV, also called fusarenon-X), 15-acetyl-nivalenol (15-ac-NIV), and diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS). 4,15-diacetyl-nivalenol (diacetyl-NIV) was found in 5 isolates. Porcine kidney epithelial cells (PK15. American Type Culture Collection) were exposed to rice culture extracts to study cytotoxicity. Descriptive statistics and factor analysis of the identified secondary metabolites show that their main metabolites were FUCH, NIV, SCIRP, DAS and 15-ac-NIV, consecutively. The individual trichothecenes were highly intercorrelated, whereas the production of acetylated NIV and DAS was slightly less. Stepwise multiple regression analysis of cytotoxicity and metabolite profiles of rice culture extracts ascribed the toxicity mainly to a combination of FUCH and 15-ac-NIV, though SCIRP or DAS are agents in the combined toxicity as well.
11913775	A cDNA encoding eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A) was isolated from a cDNA library of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Based on this DNA sequence, a 414-amino acid protein exhibiting 67, 64 and 59% homology to the mouse, Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae eIF4A, respectively, was predicted. The deduced amino acid sequence contains the characteristic motifs shared by the DEAD box supergene family. Another cDNA of rice eIF4A was reported previously. Comparison of the coding sequences of the two rice eIF4As showed 85% homology in the nucleotide sequence and 90% homology in the amino acid sequence. The genomic clones corresponding to the two rice eIF4A cDNAs were also isolated from a genomic library of rice (Oryza sativa L.). It was found that the two genes have common patterns of exon-intron boundaries. Their coding regions are split into four exons, and there is an additional exon in the 5'-non coding region.
11916419	The nucleation and growth of colloidal CdSe nanocrystals with a variety of elongated shapes were explored in detail. The critical size nuclei for the system were magic sized nanoclusters, which possessed a sharp and dominated absorption peak at 349 nm. The formation of the unique magic sized nuclei in a broad monomer concentration range was not expected by the classic nucleation theory. We propose that this was a result of the extremely high chemical potential environment, that is, very high monomer concentrations in the solution, required for the growth of those elongated nanocrystals. The shape, size, and size/shape distributions of the resulting nanocrystals were all determined by two related factors, the magic sized nuclei and the concentration of the remaining monomers after the initial nucleation stage. Without any size sorting, nearly monodisperse CdSe quantum structures with different shapes were reproducibly synthesized by using the alternative cadmium precursors, cadmium-phosphonic acid complexes. A reasonably large excess of the cadmium precursor, which is less reactive than the Se precursor, was found beneficial for the system to reach the desired balance between nucleation and growth. The shape evolution and growth kinetics of these elongated nanocrystals were consistent with the diffusion-controlled model proposed previously. The branched nanocrystals had to grow at very high monomer concentrations because the multiple growth centers at the end of each branch must be fed with a very high diffusion flux to keep all branches in the 1D-growth mode. The rice-shaped nanocrystals were found as special products of the 3D-growth stage. The growth of the nanocrystals in the 1D-growth stage was proven to be not unidirectional after the length of the nanocrystals reached a certain threshold. Experimental results indicate that coordinating solvents and two ligands with distinguishable coordinating abilities are both not intrinsic requirements for the growth of elongated CdSe nanocrystals.
11916740	Propionate-forming bacteria seem to be abundant in anoxic rice paddy soil, but biogeochemical investigations show that propionate is not a correspondingly important intermediate in carbon flux in this system. Mixed cultures of Opitutus terrae strain PB90-1, a representative propionate-producing bacterium from rice paddy soil, and the hydrogenotrophic Methanospirillum hungatei strain SK maintained hydrogen partial pressures similar to those in the soil. The associated shift away from propionate formation observed in these cultures helps to reconcile the disparity between microbiological and biogeochemical studies.
11917019	A novel DNA polymerase, designated as OsPolI-like, has been identified from the higher plant, rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). The OsPolI-like cDNA was 3765 bp in length, and the open reading frame encoded a predicted product of 977 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 100 kDa. The OsPolI-like gene has been mapped to chromosome 8 and contains 12 exons and 11 introns. The encoded protein showed a high degree of sequence and structural homology to Escherichia coli pol I protein, but differed from DNA polymerase gamma and theta. The DNA polymerase domain of OsPolI-like showed DNA polymerase activity. Subcellular fractionation analysis suggested that the protein is localized in the plastid. Northern and western blotting, and in situ hybridization analyses demonstrated preferential expression of OsPolI-like in meristematic tissues such as shoot apical meristem, root apical meristem, leaf primordia and the marginal meristem. Interestingly, no expression was detected in mature leaves, although they have a high chloroplast content. These properties indicated that OsPolI-like is a novel plant DNA polymerase. The function of OsPolI-like is discussed in relation to plastid maturation.
11918027	The use of arsenic (As) contaminated groundwater for irrigation of crops has resulted in elevated concentrations of arsenic in agricultural soils in Bangladesh, West Bengal (India), and elsewhere. Paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.) is the main agricultural crop grown in the arsenic-affected areas of Bangladesh. There is, therefore, concern regarding accumulation of arsenic in rice grown those soils. A greenhouse study was conducted to examine the effects of arsenic-contaminated irrigation water on the growth of rice and uptake and speciation of arsenic. Treatments of the greenhouse experiment consisted of two phosphate doses and seven different arsenate concentrations ranging from 0 to 8 mg of As L(-1) applied regularly throughout the 170-day post-transplantation growing period until plants were ready for harvesting. Increasing the concentration of arsenate in irrigation water significantly decreased plant height, grain yield, the number of filled grains, grain weight, and root biomass, while the arsenic concentrations in root, straw, and rice husk increased significantly. Concentrations of arsenic in rice grain did not exceed the food hygiene concentration limit (1.0 mg of As kg(-1) dry weight). The concentrations of arsenic in rice straw (up to 91.8 mg kg(-1) for the highest As treatment) were of the same order of magnitude as root arsenic concentrations (up to 107.5 mg kg(-1)), suggesting that arsenic can be readily translocated to the shoot. While not covered by food hygiene regulations, rice straw is used as cattle feed in many countries including Bangladesh. The high arsenic concentrations may have the potential for adverse health effects on the cattle and an increase of arsenic exposure in humans via the plant-animal-human pathway. Arsenic concentrations in rice plant parts except husk were not affected by application of phosphate. As the concentration of arsenic in the rice grain was low, arsenic speciation was performed only on rice straw to predict the risk associated with feeding contaminated straw to the cattle. Speciation of arsenic in tissues (using HPLC-ICP-MS) revealed that the predominant species present in straw was arsenate followed by arsenite and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA). As DMAA is only present at low concentrations, it is unlikely this will greatly alter the toxicity of arsenic present in rice.
11919526	Vomiting in children suffering from acute gastroenteritis interferes with the oral rehydration process and equally frustrates parents and health care providers. Adjuncts such as promethazine and metoclopramide are less than optimally effective and are associated with side effects. Ondansetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist marketed as Zofran, is a safe and effective antiemetic used extensively in oncology and postoperative patients. We evaluate the effect of the antiemetic ondansetron versus placebo on the clinical outcome of patients with vomiting from gastroenteritis in a pediatric emergency department. This was a randomized, prospective, double-blind clinical trial in a university-affiliated children's hospital ED. Children between the ages of 6 months and 12 years who had vomited at least 5 times during the preceding 24 hours were randomized to receive either oral ondansetron or a taste- and color-matched placebo. Oral rehydration was commenced 15 minutes later at 5 mL/min per standard oral rehydration protocols. Patients were discharged after they voided and continued standard oral rehydration at home with the introduction of a bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast (BRAT) diet after the first 24 hours. Any patient requiring admission was considered a treatment failure, and no further doses were given. Discharged patients were given 5 additional doses to be used every 8 hours, and they were contacted by telephone 24 and 48 hours after discharge to record the number of episodes of vomiting and diarrhea. The parents were also required to complete a diary of the same information, which was mailed to the investigators for confirmation of the telephone data. One hundred forty-five patients were enrolled, of whom 51% (n=74) were randomized to ondansetron. At baseline, age distribution, sex, and severity of illness did not differ between the ondansetron and placebo groups. During the observation period in the ED, the median number of episodes of vomiting was 0 in both groups, but the rank sum of vomiting episodes was significantly lower in the ondansetron group (P =.001). The number of episodes of emesis in the ED after enrollment ranged from 0 to 7 in the placebo group and 0 to 2 in the ondansetron group. During the 48 hours of follow-up, the median number of episodes of vomiting remained 0, with no statistically significant difference between the groups. There was no statistically significant difference in the rank sum of episodes of diarrhea in the ED between the groups (P =.622); however, during the next 48 hours, the patients in the ondansetron group had significantly more diarrhea than the placebo group. A lower proportion of patients receiving ondansetron compared with placebo required intravenous fluid therapy (P =.015). The admission rate was also lower in patients receiving ondansetron (P =.007). The revisit rate was higher in the ondansetron group compared with the placebo group (P =.047). Ondansetron was effective in reducing the emesis from gastroenteritis during the ED phase of oral rehydration and in lowering the rates of intravenous fluid administration and hospital admission.
11921745	Vulvovaginitis accounts for 20 to 30% of gynecological diseases and it is observed in women from 20 to 30 years of age. It has a higher frequency in women using oral contraceptives and during the third trimester of pregnancy. The aim of this research was to assess the prevalence of Candida spp and Trichomonas vaginalis in patients with the diagnosis of vulvovaginitis from the Gynecology Service in Hospital Universitario "Ruiz y Páez" in Ciudad Bolívar and Hospital "Raúl Leoni" in San Félix (Bolívar State, Venezuela). Two hundred women with symptoms of vulvovaginitis were examined, and samples were taken from the uterocervical cul-de-sac. Each patient was asked to fill a questionnaire. The following studies were made in each sample: a) fresh wet mount examination, b) orange acridine and Giemsa stains for Trichomonas and c) culture for the identification of yeasts. The latter were identified by means of the germinal tube assay, resistance to actidione and the presence of clamidospores in rice-cream agar and sugar utilization test, using the commercial kit ID32C (BioMérieux). Only in 57 women of 200 patients with vulvovaginitis the causative agent was demonstrated; Candida spp was present in 84.2% (n = 48) and Trichomonas vaginalis in 14% (n = 8). A single case of Zygosaccharomyces spp (1.8%) was detected. The age group mainly affected was that of 25-35 years old, the 38.6% of the studied population. Candida species detected were: C. albicans in 87% of cases (n = 42), C. glabrata, in 10.42% (n = 5), and C. guillermondii, in 2.08 (n = 1). Vaginal flux, vulvar pruritus and leucorrhoea were observed in significant number of patients with vulvovaginal candidiasis. The use of antibiotics was considered predisposing factor for Trichomonas vaginalis infection. The relationship between age and the etiological agent was not statistically significant. Due to the low specificity of clinical manifestations of infections caused by Candida spp and Trichomonas vaginalis, we conclude that performing the etiologic diagnosis of vulvovaginitis is necessary in order to take the appropriate therapeutic and preventive measures, specially in those patients with a recurrent disease.
11922097	The fungal genus Aspergillus was established in 1729, and includes species that are adapted to a wide range of environmental conditions. Many aspergilli produce mycotoxins in foods that may be toxic, mutagenic or carcinogenic in animals. Most of the Aspergillus species are soil fungi or saprophytes but some are capable of causing decay in storage, disease in plants or invasive disease in humans and animals. Major agricultural commodities affected before or after harvest by fungal growth and mycotoxins include corn, peanuts, cottonseed, rice, tree nuts, cereal grains, and fruits. Animal products (meat, milk and eggs) can become contaminated because of diet. Aspergillus flavus, A. parasiticus, A. ochraceus, A. niger, A. fumigatus and other aspergilli produce mycotoxins of concern. These include the aflatoxins and ochratoxins, as well as cyclopiazonic acid, patulin, sterigmatocystin, gliotoxin, citrinin and other potentially toxic metabolites.
11922106	We isolated 11 rice genes homologous to the genes encoding auxin response factors (ARFs) in Arabidopsis. All of the genes encoded a well-conserved amino acid sequence in the N-terminal region, which is considered to be a DNA-binding domain (DBD). Phylogenetic analysis based on comparison of the DBDs indicated that rice has one or two closely related orthologs corresponding to a given respective ARF gene in Arabidopsis. We also analyzed the amino acid sequences of another conserved domain in the C-terminal conserved domain (CTD), which was shared by almost all the rice ARFs, with the exception of OsETTIN1 and OsETTIN2. These results agreed well with the evolutionary relationship deduced from the DBD comparison. In contrast to many ARFs, OsETTIN1 and OsETTIN2 do not contain the conserved C-terminal domain, but do share another consensus motif that is also found in Arabidopsis ETTIN. All of the above observations indicate that rice has functionally diversified ARF genes whose structures and functions correspond to those of various Arabidopsis ARFs, with one or two rice ARFs corresponding to a given Arabidopsis ARF. Thus, auxin signal transduction mechanisms may be well conserved between monocot and dicot plants.
11922107	KNOX homeodomain (HD) proteins encoded by KNOTTED1-like homeobox genes (KNOX genes) are considered to work as important regulators for plant developmental and morphogenetic events. We found that OSH3, one of the KNOX genes isolated from a cultivar of Oryza sativa (Nipponbare), encodes a novel HD, which has two amino acid substitutions at invariant positions. Sequence analysis of OSH3 from various domesticated and wild species of rice has revealed that these substitutions are distributed only in Japonica and Javanica type of O. sativa, two groups of domesticated rice in Asia. Surprisingly, nucleotide sequences in the first intron are almost conserved in the rice strains that have the substitutions at the invariant amino acids. Overexpression studies revealed that these invariant amino acids are critical for the function of OSH3 in vivo. The facts that these substitutions occurred specifically at the functionally important amino acids and the sequences are conserved in intron where neutral mutations accumulate suggest the substitutions at the invariant positions of OSH3 have been fixed by artificial selections during domestication. Based on these observations, we hypothesize that OSH3 is responsible for one of the traits that are selectively introduced during the domestication of most of Japonica and a part of Javanica type of rice.
11922414	The ability of rice plants inoculated with Pyricularia oryzae (P. oryzae) to take up trace elements was studied by the radioactive multitracer technique. Among various elements, only Mn, Co, Zn, Se, Rb, Sr, Tc, and Re were found to be transferred to rice shoots from soil. The concentrations of essential elements, Mn and Zn, in the shoots of rice plants inoculated with P. oryzae were slightly higher than those in the control plant shoots, while Se, Rb, Tc, and Re showed almost the same concentrations for both the shoots.
11922770	An antifungal protein with a chitinase-like N-terminal sequence, designated delandin, was isolated from the rice bean. The protein exhibited a molecular weight of 28 kDa and was adsorbed on both blue Affi-Gel and SP-Toyopearl. It exerted antifungal action toward Mycosphaerella arachidicola, Botrytis cinerea, Fu- sarium oxysporum, Rhizoctonia solani, and Colletotrichum gossypii and inhibited the activity of human immunodeficiency virus 1 reverse transcriptase. The protein inhibited translation in rabbit reticulocyte lysate with a low potency. It elicited a mitogenic response from mouse splenocytes.
1192401	The dietary patters of 6663 men of Japanese ancestry, living in Hawaii and participating in the Honolulu Heart and Japan-Hawaii Cancer Studies, were analyzed according to country of birth and boyhood education. Approximately 80% of the men were born and educated in Hawaii (Nisei); the others were either born in Japan (Issei) or traveled to Japan for 5 or more years of boyhood education (Kibei). Twenty-four-hr diet recalls, obtained at the first cycle of examinations (1965 to 1968), revealed that the Nisei consumed significantly greater intakes of total and animal protein, total and saturated fat, and cholesterol than the Issei and Kibei. Values for weight, height, skinfold thickness, and serum cholesterol were in the same direction, and the differences were statistically significant. Food frequency questionnaires at the 1st and 3rd examinations covered a 6-year interval. At both time periods, the Issei and Kibei ate Japanese foods more frequently and in greater quantities than the Nisei. In general, the Nisei consumed more Western foods. Both food frequency questionnaires included 6 identical items; coffee, milk, green tea, rice, tofu (soybean curd), and tsukudani (preserved seaweed paste). The frequent and infrequent consumers were similarly characterized over the 6-year period. The findings suggest that the country of birth and education has lasting effects on adult eating patterns. The observed heterogeneity for specific food items and nutrients between the Nisei and Issei-Kibei men augers well for attempts to relate such items to chronic diseases such as cancer.
11925497	Iron fortification has been used to enhance iron intake in many developed countries for more than 50 years, but only in the last decade has this strategy been applied on a large scale to other parts of the world. Iron fortification of rice is being instituted in the Philippines. Initially, the rice will be produced in government-controlled rice mills and sold at low cost mainly to low income families. Efforts to improve the technology (using coating or extrusion techniques) are currently underway to reduce cost and minimize losses during storage and washing. Effectiveness and feasibility studies are required to test the new technologies and processing/distribution systems. In Venezuela in 1993, the government instituted a mandatory program of iron fortification to enrich precooked corn flour followed by the voluntary fortification of wheat flour. Surveys in school children subsequently showed a sharp drop in iron deficiency. Fortification of fish sauce in Vietnam has shown promising initial results in reducing anemia among anemic, nonpregnant female factory workers. Iron-fortified soy sauce has been shown to reduce anemia in initial studies in children in China, and a large-scale efficacy trial is now underway. These examples indicate that iron fortification of staple foods and condiments holds great promise for the prevention of iron deficiency.
11926993	Hydrolytic mechanisms of family 18 chitinases from rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Bacillus circulans WL-12 were comparatively studied by a combination of HPLC analysis of the reaction products and theoretical calculation of reaction time-courses. All of the enzymes tested produced beta-anomers from chitin hexasaccharide [(GlcNAc)(6)], indicating that they catalyze the hydrolysis through a retaining mechanism. The rice chitinases hydrolyzed predominantly the fourth and fifth glycosidic linkages from the nonreducing end of (GlcNAc)(6), whereas B. circulans chitinase A1 hydrolyzed the second linkage from the nonreducing end. In addition, the Bacillus enzyme efficiently catalyzed transglycosylation, producing significant amounts of chitin oligomers larger than the initial substrate, but the rice chitinases did not. The time-courses of (GlcNAc)(6) degradation obtained by HPLC were analyzed by theoretical calculation, and the subsite structures of the rice chitinases were identified to be (-4)(-3)(-2)(-1)(+1)(+2). From the HPLC profile of the reaction products previously reported [Terwisscha van Scheltinga et al. (1995) Biochemistry 34, 15619-15623], family 18 chitinase from rubber tree (Hevea brasiliensis) was estimated to have the same type of subsite structure. Theoretical analysis of the reaction time-course for the Bacillus enzyme revealed that the enzyme has (-2)(-1) (+1)(+2)(+3)(+4)-type subsite structure, which is identical to that of fungal chitinase from Coccidioides immitis [Fukamizo et al. (2001) Biochemistry 40, 2448-2454]. The Bacillus enzyme also resembled the fungal chitinase in its transglycosylation activity. Minor structural differences between plant and microbial enzymes appear to result in such functional variations, even though all of these chitinases are classified into the identical family of glycosyl hydrolases.
11928545
11931429	To determine the effects of intensive cropping of tropical lowland rice (Oryza sativa L.) and the associated long-term soil submergence on chemical properties of soil organic matter, we used solid-state 13C and 15N and solution 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to analyze the labile mobile humic acid (MHA) and the more recalcitrant calcium humate (CaHA) fractions extracted from a series of soils supporting several long-term field experiments in the Philippines. The soils varied mainly in degree of submergence and cropping intensity, ranging from a rainfed rice field without soil submergence to irrigated double- and triple-cropped fields in which soil remains submerged almost all year long. As reported previously, all analyses associated increasing intensity of rice cropping with larger proportions of less humified material in the MHA and CaHA, such as diester phosphorus (P), amide nitrogen (N), and phenolic carbon (C). We established significant correlations between proportions of various spectral areas as well as between some spectral areas and other humic acid (HA) properties such as visible light absorption and free radical concentration (positive indices of humification) and hydrogen (H) concentration (negative index of humification). For example, spectral proportions of heterocyclic N were positively, and proportions of amide N and phenolic C negatively, correlated with visible light absorption and free radical concentration, and each of these spectral proportions had an opposite sign when correlated with H concentration. The correlations of N-alkyl C proportions were the strongest with these properties and with other functional group proportions.
11934991
11935000
11935001
11935002
11935006
11935007
11935008
11935009
11935017	We have produced a draft sequence of the rice genome for the most widely cultivated subspecies in China, Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica, by whole-genome shotgun sequencing. The genome was 466 megabases in size, with an estimated 46,022 to 55,615 genes. Functional coverage in the assembled sequences was 92.0%. About 42.2% of the genome was in exact 20-nucleotide oligomer repeats, and most of the transposons were in the intergenic regions between genes. Although 80.6% of predicted Arabidopsis thaliana genes had a homolog in rice, only 49.4% of predicted rice genes had a homolog in A. thaliana. The large proportion of rice genes with no recognizable homologs is due to a gradient in the GC content of rice coding sequences.
11935018	The genome of the japonica subspecies of rice, an important cereal and model monocot, was sequenced and assembled by whole-genome shotgun sequencing. The assembled sequence covers 93% of the 420-megabase genome. Gene predictions on the assembled sequence suggest that the genome contains 32,000 to 50,000 genes. Homologs of 98% of the known maize, wheat, and barley proteins are found in rice. Synteny and gene homology between rice and the other cereal genomes are extensive, whereas synteny with Arabidopsis is limited. Assignment of candidate rice orthologs to Arabidopsis genes is possible in many cases. The rice genome sequence provides a foundation for the improvement of cereals, our most important crops.
11939105	Kunun zaki--a cereal-based non-alcoholic, non-carbonated beverage--was studied. The ratio of blends of major ingredients, nutrient, amino acid content and sensory qualities of kunun zaki generated with different saccharifying agents were investigated. The main ingredients of the formulations were malted rice, sweet potato, soybeans and Cadaba farinosa (Dangarafa or Legel in Hausa), each used separately with sorghum to produce a kunun zaki type. The weight ratios of the major ingredients were 8:91 for malted rice-sorghum, 7:92 for sweet potato-sorghum, 9:90 for soybean-sorghum and 4:95 for Cadaba farinosa-sorghum blends with ginger contributing 1% in each case as a spice. The nutrient composition of kunun zaki samples from different saccharifying agents ranged from 87 to 91% for moisture, 3.19 to 7.86% for crude protein, 0.37 to 0.75% for fat, 0.93 to 1.20% for ash and 2.69 to 5.84% for carbohydrate. Glutamic acid (4.49-11.66 g) was the most abundant amino acid in the samples while cysteine was the least abundant (0.34-1.45 g) in all the samples. The lowest concentration of all the essential amino acids except for tryptophan occurred when malted rice was used (0.44-1.40 g). Among the essential amino acids, cysteine, valine, isoleucine and methionine occurred in extremely low quantities compared with FAO/WHO reference protein values. The dual role (saccharification and enrichment) of soybean in kunun zaki processing is a desirable attribute and offers an advantage over the other agents. The different saccharifying agents had no significant effect (P > 0.05) on colour and flavour of kunun zaki but did influence sweetness, mouthfeel and overall acceptability. The beverage made with malted rice was most liked overall.
11939111	The present study was conducted to investigate the precaecal digestibility of vitamin B6 from selected food sources including eggs, bananas, white cabbage, corn, milk powder, fish, barley, soybeans, brown rice, wheat bran, brewer's yeast, rye and soybean meal. These foods were chosen for their relevance in human and animal nutrition and prepared as they are usually eaten by humans. As confirmed by further investigations the precaecal digestibility is a valuable measure for determining the availability of native B-vitamins. Therefore, pigs were fitted with an end-to-end ileo-rectal anastomosis for digesta passing straight from ileum to rectum, thus avoiding endogenous vitamin synthesis by the colon. Three weeks after surgery the digestibility experiments were carried out during which the animals were fed various experimental diets for a period of 12 days and digesta were collected quantitatively twice a day during the final 5 days of this period. The concentration of vitamin B6 in foods and chyme was determined by high pressure liquid chromatography. Precaecal digestibility of vitamin B6 from all tested food sources ranged from 51 to 91% in the following order: cabbage diet > banana diet > fish diet > milk powder diet > brewer's yeast diet > soybeans diet > soybean meal diet > egg diet/corn diet > barley diet > wheat bran diet > rye diet. Only boiled brown rice had a very low vitamin B6 availability of 16%. The digestibility of vitamin B6 from plant products (excluding the rice) was on average 10% lower when compared with animal products (71 versus 79%).
11939564	A rice semidwarfing gene, sd-1, known as the "green revolution gene," was isolated by positional cloning and revealed to encode gibberellin 20-oxidase, the key enzyme in the gibberellin biosynthesis pathway. Analysis of 3477 segregants using several PCR-based marker technologies, including cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence, derived-CAPS, and single nucleotide polymorphisms revealed 1 ORF in a 6-kb candidate interval. Normal-type rice cultivars have an identical sequence in this region, consisting of 3 exons (558, 318, and 291 bp) and 2 introns (105 and 1471 bp). Dee-Geo-Woo-Gen-type sd-1 mutants have a 383-bp deletion from the genome (278-bp deletion from the expressed sequence), from the middle of exon 1 to upstream of exon 2, including a 105-bp intron, resulting in a frame-shift that produces a termination codon after the deletion site. The radiation-induced sd-1 mutant Calrose 76 has a 1-bp substitution in exon 2, causing an amino acid substitution (Leu [CTC] to Phe [TTC]). Expression analysis suggests the existence of at least one more locus of gibberellin 20-oxidase which may prevent severe dwarfism from developing in sd-1 mutants.
11941459	The effect of the anti-microtubular drug oryzalin on growth and morphology of cultured rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Roncarolo) cells was evaluated with specific reference to mechanisms that control intracellular tubulin levels. The addition of oryzalin caused a great reduction in the level of both alpha- and beta-tubulin polypeptides, as detected by Western blot analysis. However, no appreciable decrease was observed in the population of total or isotype-specific alpha- and beta-tubulin mRNAs. Only within the first 24 h of the oryzalin treatment, when the level of both alpha- and beta-tubulin polypeptides was still undiminished, was a consistent reduction in the amount of total beta-tubulin mRNA observed. Pulse-chase experiments performed on rice cells grown in the presence of 1 microM oryzalin revealed the presence of two distinct mechanisms that negatively control alpha- and beta-tubulin polypeptide levels. (i) There was an immediate effect on protein synthesis, which resulted in a reduction in the level of newly synthesized tubulin. (ii) There was a delayed response characterized by a substantial degradation of both alpha- and beta-tubulin monomers; this degradation occurred after 24 h of herbicide treatment. The possible involvement of Ca2+ in the degradation of the unincorporated tubulin monomers is also documented and discussed.
1194189	Several extraction methods are compared for the simultaneous analysis of organophosphorus pesticides in unpolished rice. Four stationary phases were used for the subsequent gas-liquid chromatographic (GLC) determination of the selected pesticides. Using 3 different GLC columns, 11 pesticides were completely separated and identified. The efficiency of the cleanup and the sensitivity of the analytical method were evaluated by using powdered unpolished rice samples fortified with the pesticides and also wheat and dried bean samples. Average recoveries ranged from 74.7% for disulfoton to 97.4% for malathion in unpolished rice and from 68.1% for disulfoton to 108.3% for malathion in other crops. The method described is applicable to the analysis of selected organophosphorus pesticide residues in unpolished rice, wheat, buckwheat, and dried beans.
1194572
11948221	In order to determine the population genetic structure of wild rice (Oryza officinalis Wall. ex Watt.), an endangered tropical and subtropical species, allozyme diversity encoded by 24 loci was analyzed electrophoretically in 145 individuals of eight natural populations from Hainan, Guangxi, and Yunnan provinces, China. A fairly high genetic differentiation (F(ST) = 0.882 and mean I = 0.786) was found among the studied populations. Our results suggest that restricted gene flow may play a significant role in shaping such a population genetic structure. In addition, high genetic differentiation among populations within a geographically limited region may stem from a reduced population size and consequent genetic drift.
11948309
11948318
11948321
11950565	Development of a rice variety enriched in provitamin A, the accumulation of polyhydroxybutyrate polyester in Arabidopsis nuclear transgenic plants (with enzymes targeted to chloroplasts in both), and the expression of bacterial operons via the chloroplast genome are recent landmark achievements in multigene engineering. Hyper-expression of transgenes has resulted in the formation of insecticidal protein crystals or inclusion bodies of pharmaceutical proteins in transgenic chloroplasts, achieving the highest level of transgene expression ever reported in transgenic plants. These achievements illustrate the potential of multigene engineering to realize benefits of the post-genomic revolution.
11950970	Rice (Oryza sativa) accumulates prolamins and glutelins as storage proteins. The latter storage protein is synthesized on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) as a 57-kD proglutelin precursor, which is then processed into acidic and basic subunits in the protein storage vacuole. Three esp2 mutants, CM1787, EM44, and EM747, contain larger amounts of the 57-kD polypeptide and corresponding lower levels of acidic and basic glutelin subunits than normal. Electron microscopic observation revealed that esp2 contained normal-appearing glutelin-containing protein bodies (PB-II), but lacked the normal prolamin-containing PB (PB-I). Instead, numerous small ER-derived PBs of uniform size (0.5 microm in diameter) and low electron density were readily observed. Immunoblot analysis of purified subcellular fractions and immunocytochemistry at the electron microscopy level showed that these new PBs contained the 57-kD proglutelin precursor and prolamin polypeptides. The 57-kD proglutelin was extracted with 1% (v/v) lactic acid solution only after removal of cysteine-rich prolamin polypeptides, suggesting that these proteins form glutelin-prolamin aggregates via interchain disulfide bonds within the ER lumen. The endosperm of esp2 mutants contains the lumenal chaperones, binding protein and calnexin, but lacks protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) at the protein and RNA levels. The transcript of PDI was expressed in the seed only during the early stage of seed development in the wild type. These results suggest that PDI plays an essential role in the segregation of proglutelin and prolamin polypeptides within the ER lumen.
11950975	We recently isolated two genes (OsGA3ox1 and OsGA3ox2) from rice (Oryza sativa) encoding 3beta-hydroxylase, which catalyzes the final step of active gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis (H. Itoh, M. Ueguchi-Tanaka, N. Sentoku, H. Kitano, M. Matsuoka, M. Kobayashi [2001] Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98: 8909-8914). Using these cloned cDNAs, we analyzed the temporal and spatial expression patterns of the 3beta-hydroxylase genes and also an alpha-amylase gene (RAmy1A) during rice seed germination to investigate the relationship between GA biosynthesis and alpha-amylase expression. Northern-blot analyses revealed that RAmy1A expression in the embryo occurs before the induction of 3beta-hydroxylase expression, whereas in the endosperm, a high level of RAmy1A expression occurs 1 to 2 d after the peak of OsGA3ox2 expression and only in the absence of uniconazol. Based on the analysis of an OsGA3ox2 null mutant (d18-Akibare dwarf), we determined that 3beta-hydroxylase produced by OsGA3ox2 is important for the induction of RAmy1A expression and that the OsGA3ox1 product is not essential for alpha-amylase induction. The expression of OsGA3ox2 was localized to the shoot region and epithelium of the embryo, strongly suggesting that active GA biosynthesis occurs in these two regions. The synthesis of active GA in the epithelium is important for alpha-amylase expression in the endosperm, because an embryonic mutant defective in shoot formation, but which developed epithelium cells, induced alpha-amylase expression in the endosperm, whereas a mutant defective in epithelium development did not.
11950985	Pyruvate,orthophosphate (Pi) dikinase (PPDK) is best recognized as a chloroplastic C(4) cycle enzyme. As one of the key regulatory foci for controlling flux through this photosynthetic pathway, it is strictly and reversibly regulated by light. This light/dark modulation is mediated by reversible phosphorylation of a conserved threonine residue in the active-site domain by the PPDK regulatory protein (RP), a bifunctional protein kinase/phosphatase. PPDK is also present in C(3) plants, although it has no known photosynthetic function. Nevertheless, in this report we show that C(3) PPDK in leaves of several angiosperms and in isolated intact spinach (Spinacia oleracea) chloroplasts undergoes light-/dark-induced changes in phosphorylation state in a manner similar to C(4) dikinase. In addition, the kinetics of this process closely resemble the reversible C(4) process, with light-induced dephosphorylation occurring rapidly (< or =15 min) and dark-induced phosphorylation occurring much more slowly (> or =30-60 min). In intact spinach chloroplasts, light-induced dephosphorylation of C(3) PPDK was shown to be dependent on exogenous Pi and photosystem II activity but independent of electron transfer from photosystem I. These in organello results implicate a role for stromal pools of Pi and adenylates in regulating the reversible phosphorylation of C(3)-PPDK. Last, we used an in vitro RP assay to directly demonstrate ADP-dependent PPDK phosphorylation in desalted leaf extracts of the C(3) plants Vicia faba and rice (Oryza sativa). We conclude that an RP-like activity mediates the light/dark modulation of PPDK phosphorylation state in C(3) leaves and chloroplasts and likely represents the ancestral isoform of this unusual and key C(4) pathway regulatory "converter" enzyme.
11952120	In the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, a mitogen-activated protein kinase gene, PMK1, is known to regulate appressorium formation and infectious hyphae growth. Since PMK1 is homologous to the FUS3 and KSS1 genes that regulate the transcription factor STE12 in yeast, we functionally characterized the STE12 homologue in M. grisea (MST12). A polymerase chain reaction-based approach was used to isolate the MST12 gene that is homologous to yeast STE12. Four mst12 deletion mutants were isolated by gene replacement. No obvious defect in vegetative growth, conidiation, or conidia germination was observed in mst12 mutants. However, mst12 mutants were nonpathogenic on rice and barley leaves. In contrast to pmk1 mutants that did not form appressoria, mst12 mutants produced typical dome-shaped and melanized appressoria. However, the appressoria formed by mst12 mutants failed to penetrate onion epidermal cells. When inoculated through wound sites, mst12 mutants failed to cause spreading lesions and appeared to be defective in infectious growth. These data indicate that MST12 may function downstream of PMK1 to regulate genes involved in infectious hyphae growth. A transcription factor or factors other than MST12 must exist in M. grisea and function downstream from PMK1 for appressorium formation.
11954722	Rice is a staple food in Japan and other Asian countries, and the soil-to-plant transfer factor of 137Cs released into the environment is an important parameter for estimating the internal radiation dose from food ingestion. Soil and rice grain samples were collected from 20 paddy fields throughout Aomori Prefecture, Japan in 1996 and 1997, and soil-to-polished rice transfer factors were determined. The concentrations of 137Cs, derived from fallout depositions, stable Cs and K in paddy soils were 2.5-21 Bq kg(-1), 1.2-5.3 and 5000-13000 mg kg(-1), respectively. The ranges of 137Cs, stable Cs and K concentration in polished rice were 2.5-85 mBq kg(-1) dry wt., 0.0005-0.0065 and 580-910 mg kg(-1) dry wt., respectively. The geometric mean of soil-to-polished rice transfer factor of 137Cs was 0.0016, and its 95% confidence interval was 0.00021-0.012. The transfer factor of 137Cs was approximately 3 times higher than that of stable Cs at 0.00056, and they were well correlated. This implied that fallout 137Cs, mostly deposited up to the 1980s, is more mobile and more easily absorbed by plants than stable Cs in the soil, although the soil-to-plant transfer of stable Cs can be used for predicting the long-term transfer of 137Cs. The transfer factors of both 137Cs and stable Cs decreased with increasing K concentration in the soil. This suggests that K in the soil was a competitive factor for the transfers of both 137Cs and stable Cs from soil-to-polished rice. However, the transfer factors of 137Cs and stable Cs were independent of the amount of organic materials in soils.
11958141	Plant nonspecific lipid transfer protein(nsLTP) is a class of protein which has in vitro lipid transferring activity between biomembranes. In order to study the antimicrobial function of rice nonspecific lipid transfer protein, a gene LTP110 encoding rice nsLTP was cloned into ThioFusion expression vector pET32a (+) and expressed in host strain Bl21(DE3)trxB-. After induction by IPTG at 30 degrees C for 5 h, the fusion protein thio-LTP110 was in large amount produced. The expressed protein was purified by Ni2(+)-chelating Sepharose fast flow column, then digested by enterokinase. By passing through nickel affinity column again, the cleavage product, LTP110, was obtained. CD spectrum scanning from 185 nm to 250 nm showed that the recombinant protein LTP110 had similar secondary structure with the nsLTP purified from rice etiolated seedlings. Activity determination by fluorescent lipid P-96 showed that it had lipid binding activity. Microbial inhibition test results revealed that LTP110 deterred germination of the spores of rice pathogen P. oryzae, showing it might be involved in plant microbial resistance function. Therefore, it has the potential to be used in plant transgene engineering to improve plant resistance.
11958336	Carbohydrates are biomolecules abundantly available in nature. They are found in bewildering types ranging from simple sugars through oligo- and polysaccharides to glycoconjugates and saccharide complexes, each exhibiting characteristic bio-physiological and/or nutritional functions both in in vivo and in vitro systems. For example, their presence or inclusion in food dictates the texture (body) and gives desirable customer appeal (satisfaction), or their inclusion in the diet offers beneficial effects of great therapeutic value. Thus, carbohydrates are integrally involved in a multitude of biological functions such as regulation of the immune system, cellular signaling (communication), cell malignancy, antiinfection responses, host-pathogen interactions, etc. If starch is considered the major energy storage carbohydrate, the gums/mucilages and other non-starch carbohydrates are of structural significance. The most investigated properties of starch are its gelatinization and melting behavior, especially during food processing. This has led to the development of the food polymer science approach, which has enabled a new interpretive and experimental frame work for the study of the plasticizing influence of simple molecules such as water, sugars, etc. on food systems that are kinetically constrained. Starch, although considered fully digestible, has been challenged, and starch is found to be partly indigestible in the GI tract of humans. This fraction of starch-resisting digestion in vivo is known as resistant starch (RS). The latter, due to its excellent fermentative capacity in the gut, especially yielding butyric acid is considered a new tool for the creation of fiber-rich foods, which are of nutraceutical importance. By a careful control of the processing conditions the content of RS, a man-made fiber, can be increased to as high as 30%. Arabinoxylans are the major endospermic cell wall polysaccharides of cereals. In wheat they are found complexed with ferulic acid esters, which after oxidative coupling in vivo mediated by H2O2 and peroxidases or even by photochemical means give cross linked diferuloyl derivatives. The latter confer strength and extensibility to the cell wall and offer resistance for digestibility by ruminants. They also help blocking of the ingress of pathogens. The ester bound ferulic acid after oxidation in vivo generates reactive oxygen species that contribute to the fragmentation of non-starch polysaccharides (hemicelluloses), and thereby reduces the product viscosity, a property seen during long-term storage of rice. In plant tissues, the arabinogalactans are implicated in such diverse functions as cell-cell adhesion, nutrition of growing pollen tubes, response to microbial infections, and also as markers of identity expressed in the terminal sequences of saccharide chains.
11958643	Starches from six wild rice cultivars were studied for their chemical structures and physicochemical properties and compared with a long-grain rice starch. The six wild rice starches were similar in morphological appearance, X-ray diffraction patterns, swelling power, and water solubility index but different in amylose content, beta-amylolysis limit, branch chain length distribution, thermal properties, and pasting properties. The structure of the wild rice amylopectins was close to that of waxy rice amylopectin with more branching and a larger proportion of short branch chains of degree of polymerization 6-12 as compared with that of amylopectin from rice starch with a similar amylose content. The differences in branch chain length distribution of amylopectin and amylose content were assumed to contribute to the differences in physicochemical properties among the six wild rice starches as well as to the differences between the wild rice starches and the rice starch.
11959443	A hydrogenotrophic motile methanogen was isolated from flooded Japanese paddy field soil. Anaerobic incubation of the paddy soil on H(2)-CO(2) at 20 degrees C led to the enrichment of symmetrically curved motile autofluorescent rods. The methanogenic strain TM20-1 isolated from the culture was halotolerant and utilized H(2)-CO(2), 2-propanol-CO(2), or formate as a sole methanogenic substrate. Based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity (94.8%) with Methanospirillum hungateii, and on the physiological and phenotypic characteristics, TM20-1 was suggested to be a newly identified species belonging to the genus Methanospirillum. This is the first report of isolation of the genus Methanospirillum strain from a rice paddy field.
11959760	Rice bodies can occur in the joints in many rheumatic conditions, but they are most common in rheumatoid arthritis. They are generally believed to occur rarely in patients with osteoarthritis, but one study reported rice bodies with apatite crystals. To report on a series of joint fluids with rice bodies containing apatite clumps and examine their clinical pictures. All synovial fluid analysis reports for 10 years were reviewed for rice bodies and eight patients were reported on. A series of patients with a variety of diseases with synovial fluid rice bodies found to contain calcific material is described. All were examined by compensated polarised light and alizarin red stain, and four were examined by electron microscopy. The eight patients all had alizarin red S chunks embedded throughout the rice body. Transmission electron microscopy disclosed the presence of a matrix of collagen, fibrin, and amorphous materials containing typical apatite crystals. Clinical diagnoses, radiographic findings, and leucocyte counts varied, but six of the eight patients had had previous repeated corticosteroid injections into the joints. Aggregates of apatites may be more common than previously recognised in rice bodies as they are not routinely sought. Whether they are a result of joint damage or depot steroid injections and whether that might contribute to further joint injury now needs to be investigated.
11959900	The objective of the present study was to make use of efficient molecular marker systems to reveal genetic relationships in traditional and evolved Basmati (EB) and semidwarf non-Basmati (NB) rice varieties. A subset of three rice groups was analyzed by using 19 simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci and 12 inter-SSR-PCR primers. A total of 70 SSR alleles and 481 inter-SSR-PCR markers were revealed in 24 varieties from the three groups. The lowest genetic diversity was observed among the traditional Basmati varieties, whereas the EB varieties showed the highest genetic diversity by both the marker assays. The results indicated that the subset of aromatic rice varieties analyzed in the present study is probably derived from a single land race. The traditional Basmati (TB) and semidwarf NB rice varieties used in the present study were clearly delineated by both marker assays. A number of markers, which could unambiguously distinguish the TB varieties used in the present study from the evolved and NB rice varieties, were identified. The potential use of these markers in Basmati rice-breeding programs and authentication of TB varieties used in the present study are envisaged.
11959905	Plant HKT proteins comprise a family of cation transporters together with prokaryotic KtrB, TrkH, and KdpA transporter subunits and fungal Trk proteins. These transporters contain four loop domains in one polypeptide with a proposed distant homology to K(+) channel selectivity filters. Functional expression in yeast and Xenopus oocytes revealed that wheat HKT1 mediates Na(+)-coupled K(+) transport. Arabidopsis AtHKT1, however, transports only Na(+) in eukaryotic expression systems. To understand the molecular basis of this difference we constructed a series of AtHKT1/HKT1 chimeras and introduced point mutations to AtHKT1 and wheat HKT1 at positions predicted to be critical for K(+) selectivity. A single-point mutation, Ser-68 to glycine, was sufficient to restore K(+) permeability to AtHKT1. The reverse mutation in HKT1, Gly-91 to serine, abrogated K(+) permeability. This glycine in P-loop A of AtHKT1 and HKT1 can be modeled as the first glycine of the K(+) channel selectivity filter GYG motif. The importance of such filter glycines for K(+) selectivity was confirmed by interconversion of Ser-88 and Gly-88 in the rice paralogues OsHKT1 and OsHKT2. Surprisingly, all HKT homologues known from dicots have a serine at the filter position in P-loop A, suggesting that these proteins function mainly as Na(+) transporters in plants and that Na(+)/K(+) symport in HKT proteins is associated with a glycine in the filter residue. These data provide experimental evidence that the glycine residues in selectivity filters of HKT proteins are structurally related to those of K(+) channels.
11961544	The chronic food shortage that was feared after the rapid expansion of the world population in the 1960s was averted largely by the development of a high-yielding semi-dwarf variety of rice known as IR8, the so-called rice 'green revolution'. The short stature of IR8 is due to a mutation in the plant's sd1 gene, and here we identify this gene as encoding an oxidase enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of gibberellin, a plant growth hormone. Gibberellin is also implicated in green-revolution varieties of wheat, but the reduced height of those crops is conferred by defects in the hormone's signalling pathway.
11962322	Studies on root growth and vertical distribution at tillering(TL), panicle initiation(PI), flowering(FL) and mature(MT) stages and effects of soil compaction on root growth were carried out with hybrid rice of Shanyou 63 and 65,002 in root box. The results indicated that root weight reached maximum at flowering stage and then decreased. With the advance of growth stage, percentage of deep roots(20-45 cm in soil) increased. Root weight increased at highest rate and deep roots formed during the period of TL to PI. With increased soil weight density below 20 cm, root weight and percentage of deep roots markedly decreased.
11962488
11962489
11962626	A molecular-marker linkage map has been constructed for perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) using a one-way pseudo-testcross population based on the mating of a multiple heterozygous individual with a doubled haploid genotype. RFLP, AFLP, isoenzyme, and EST data from four collaborating laboratories within the International Lolium Genome Initiative were combined to produce an integrated genetic map containing 240 loci covering 811 cM on seven linkage groups. The map contained 124 codominant markers, of which 109 were heterologous anchor RFLP probes from wheat, barley, oat, and rice, allowing comparative relationships between perennial ryegrass and other Poaceae species to be inferred. The genetic maps of perennial ryegrass and the Triticeae cereals are highly conserved in terms of synteny and colinearity. This observation was supported by the general agreement of the syntenic relationships between perennial ryegrass, oat, and rice and those between the Triticeae and these species. A lower level of synteny and colinearity was observed between perennial ryegrass and oat compared with the Triticeae, despite the closer taxonomic affinity between these species. It is proposed that the linkage groups of perennial ryegrass be numbered in accordance with these syntenic relationships, to correspond to the homoeologous groups of the Triticeae cereals.
11963895	Candida guilliermondii FTI 20037 was cultured in sugarcane bagasse hydrolysate supplemented with 2.0 g/L of (NH4)2SO4, 0.1 g/L of CaCl2 x 2H2O, and 20.0 g/L of rice bran at 35 degrees C; pH 4.0; agitation of 300 rpm; and aeration of 0.4, 0.6, or 0.8 vvm. The high xylitol production (20.0 g/L) and xylose reductase (XR) activity (658.8 U/mg of protein) occurred at an aeration of 0.4 vvm. Under this condition, the xylitol dehydrogenase (XD) activity was low. The apparent K(M) for XR and XD against substrates and cofactors were as follows: for XR, 6.4 x 10(-2)M (xylose) and 9.5 x 10(-3) mM (NADPH); for XD, 1.6 x 10(-1)M (xylitol) and 9.9 x 10(-2) mM (NAD+). Because XR requires about 10-fold less xylose and cofactor than XD for the condition in which the reaction rate is half of the Vmax, some interference on the overall xylitol production by the yeast could be expected.
11963901	Xylose reductase (XR) activity was evaluated in extracts of Candida mogii grown in media containing different concentrations of rice straw hydrolysate. Results of XR activity were compared to xylitol production and a similar behavior was observed for these parameters. Highest values of specific production and productivity were found for xylose reductase (35 U/g of cell and 0.97 U/[g of cell x h], respectively) and for xylitol (5.63 g/g of cell and 0.13 g/[g of cell x h]) in fermentation conducted in medium containing 49.2 g of xylose/L. The maximum value of XR:XD ratio (1.82) was also calculated under this initial xylose concentration with 60 h of fermentation.
11963972	The relationship of insect predators and phytoplankton with the abundance of Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles, Cx. vishnui Theobald and Cx. pseudovishnui Colless mosquito larvae and pupae (Diptera: Culicidae) in ricefields was investigated during three rice growing seasons. Notonectids were the most abundant insect predators, whereas diatoms dominated among phytoplankton. Multiple regression analysis showed that the occurrence of notonectids (both nymphs and adults) was negatively associated with larval abundance. Phytoplankton, especially diatoms and blue green algae (BGA), were found to favour abundance of culicine immatures during Navarai and Kuruvai crops, respectively. Larval gut analysis showed that the intake of algae by late instars was high, with 93%, 58% and 24% of diatoms, BGA and green algae, respectively. Filamentous algae may not necessarily be of nutritive value, but they are observed to form mats, which provide protection to the mosquito immatures from the predators.
11963979	Malaria vector Anopheles and other mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) were monitored for 12 months during 1994-95 in villages of Lower Moshi irrigation area (37 degrees 20' E, 3 degrees 21' S; approximately 700 m a.s.l.) south of Mount Kilimanjaro in northern Tanzania. Adult mosquito populations were sampled fortnightly by five methods: human bait collection indoors (18.00-06.00 hours) and outdoors (18.00-24.00 hours); from daytime resting-sites indoors and outdoors; by CDC light-traps over sleepers. Anopheles densities and rates of survival, anthropophily and malaria infection were compared between three villages representing different agro-ecosystems: irrigated sugarcane plantation; smallholder rice irrigation scheme, and savannah with subsistence crops. Respective study villages were Mvuleni (population 2200), Chekereni (population 3200) and Kisangasangeni (population approximately/= 1000), at least 7 km apart. Anopheles arabiensis Patton was found to be the principal malaria vector throughout the study area, with An. funestus Giles sensu lato of secondary importance in the sugarcane and savannah villages. Irrigated sugarcane cultivation resulted in water pooling, but this did not produce more vectors. Anopheles arabiensis densities averaged four-fold higher in the ricefield village, although their human blood-index was significantly less (48%) than in the sugarcane (68%) or savannah (66%) villages, despite similar proportions of humans and cows (ratio 1:1.1-1.4) as the main hosts at all sites. Parous rates, duration of the gonotrophic cycle and survival rates of An. arabiensis were similar in villages of all three agro-ecosystems. The potential risk of malaria, based on measurements of vectorial capacity of An. arabiensis and An.funestus combined, was four-fold higher in the ricefield village than in the sugarcane or savannah villages nearby. However, the more realistic estimate of malaria risk, based on entomological inoculation rates, indicated that exposure to infective vectors was 61-68% less for people in the ricefield village, due to the much lower sporozoite rate in An. arabiensis (ricefield 0.01%, sugarcane 0.1%, savannah 0.12%). This contrast was attributed to better socio-economic conditions of rice farmers, facilitating relatively more use of antimalarials and bednets for their families. Our findings show that, for a combination of reasons, the malaria challenge is lower for villagers associated with an irrigated rice-growing scheme (despite greater malaria vector potential), than for adjacent communities with other agro-ecosystems bringing less socio-economic benefits to health. This encourages the development of agro-irrigation schemes in African savannahs, provided that residents have ready access to antimalaria materials (i.e. effective antimalaria drugs and insecticidal bednets) that they may better afford for protection against the greater vectorial capacity of An. arabiensis from the ricefield agro-ecosystem.
11965287
11965518	Since the major reviews on diet and cancer by the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) and by the British Department of Health's Committee on Medical Aspects of Food Policy (COMA) in 1997 and 1998, additional epidemiological studies relating (red) meat consumption and colorectal cancer have been published or found by search. These are collected here. Thirty adequate case-control studies have been published up to 1999 (from 16 different countries). Twenty of them found no significant association of (red) meat with colorectal cancer. Of the remaining 10 studies reporting an association, some obtained statistical significance only in rectal or colon cancers, another only in men, not women, or found a stronger association with pasta and rice, or used an inadequate food list in the food frequency questionnaire. Fifteen cohort studies have now been published. Only in three were significant associations of (red) meat found with colorectal cancer. Two of these positive studies were from the same group in the USA (relative risk 1.7). The results of the third positive study appear to conflict with data from part of the vegetarians follow up mortality study. Here, five groups of vegetarians (in three different countries) with socially matched controls were followed up (total 76 000 people). Mortality from colorectal cancer was not distinguishable between vegetarians and controls. While it is still possible that certain processed meats or sausages (with a variety of added ingredients) or meats cooked at very high temperature carry some risk, the relationship between meats in general and colorectal cancer now looks weaker than the 'probable' status it was judged to have by the WCRF in 1997.
11967067	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) Philippine race 6 (PR6) is unable to cause bacterial blight disease on rice lines containing the rice resistance gene Xa21 but is virulent on non-Xa21 rice lines, indicating that PR6 carries avirulence (avrXa21) determinants required for recognition by XA21. Here we show that two Xoo genes, raxP and raxQ, are required for AvrXa21 activity. raxP and raxQ, which reside in a genomic cluster of sulphur assimilation genes, encode an ATP sulphurylase and APS (adenosine-5'-phosphosulphate) kinase. These enzymes function together to produce activated forms of sulphate, APS and PAPS (3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulphate). Xoo PR6 strains carrying disruptions in either gene, PR6DeltaraxP or PR6DeltaraxQ, are unable to produce APS and PAPS and are virulent on Xa21-containing rice lines. RaxP and RaxQ are similar to the bacterial symbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti host specificity proteins, NodP and NodQ and the Escherichia coli cysteine synthesis proteins CysD, CysN and CysC. The APS and PAPS produced by RaxP and RaxQ are used for both cysteine synthesis and sulphation of other molecules. Mutation in Xoo xcysI, a homologue of Escherichia coli cysI that is required for cysteine synthesis, blocked APS- or PAPS-dependent cysteine synthesis but did not affect AvrXa21 activity, suggesting that AvrXa21 activity is related to sulphation rather than cysteine synthesis. Taken together, these results demonstrate that APS and PAPS production plays a critical role in determining avirulence of a phytopathogen and reveal a commonality between symbiotic and phytopathogenic bacteria.
11967095	To acquire Fe from soil, graminaceous plants secrete mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs) from their roots. The secretion of MAs increases in response to Fe deficiency, and shows a distinct diurnal rhythm. We used a microarray that included 8987 cDNAs of rice EST clones to examine gene expression profiles in barley roots during Fe-deficiency stress. Approximately 200 clones were identified as Fe-deficiency-inducible genes, of which seven had been identified previously. In order to meet the increased demand for methionine to produce MAs, Fe-deficiency enhances the expression of genes that participate in methionine synthesis, as well as recycling methionine through the Yang cycle. Of these 200 genes, approximately 50 exhibited different transcription levels in Fe-deficient roots at noon and at night. Northern blot analysis of time course experiments confirmed that five of these genes exhibited a diurnal change in their level of expression. The diurnal changes in the expression of these genes suggest that polar vesicle transport is involved in the diurnal secretion of MAs.
11967098	The ipt-type MAT vector uses the ipt gene for regeneration of marker-free transgenic plants. However, it was pointed out that this system was not suitable for most economically important crops that regenerated through auxin-dependent embryogenesis. We report a single-step transformation system of rice using MAT vector. When we transformed scutellum tissues of 5 days pre-cultured rice seeds, marker-free transgenic rice plants directly regenerated from 25.5% infected scutellum tissues without forming ipt-intermediates within 4 weeks after an infection. Excision of the ipt gene caused the regeneration of marker-free transgenic rice plants through embryogenic tissues. Therefore, this system needs no selective agent and no sexual crossing for identification of transgenic plants not containing a selectable marker gene. This system is highly effective for generation of marker-free transgenic plants in economically important crops.
11968880	Two recent papers Wexler, Schütze & Rice (1998) and Rispoli (1999a) reach different conclusions concerning the relationship between finiteness marking and pronoun case errors. Wexler et al. claim they are linked, whereas Rispoli finds little evidence for such a linkage. Wexler et al. discounted data from children who made pronoun case errors in 100% of their attempts at a subject pronoun, whereas Rispoli (1999a) included data from such children. This methodological difference may account for our differing conclusions. Schütze (2001) defends the omission of these data, claiming that children who make a pronoun case error 100% of the time do so because the correct pronoun case form is not in the child's productive inventory. Longitudinal data is presented showing the inadequacy of this assumption. Children may err without variation after a period of variation, indicating that these children have knowledge of the correct form. Apparent methodological differences between the two papers reveal deeper theoretical biases. The paradigm building approach taken by Rispoli views longitudinal variation of this sort as a reflection of lexical retrieval principles at work in a developing paradigm. In contrast, the Agr/Tns Omission Model of Wexler et al. finds such variation an uncomfortable inconvenience.
11970203	The role of the potential energy landscape in determining the relaxation dynamics of model clusters is studied using a master equation. Two types of energy landscape are examined: a single funnel, as exemplified by 13-atom Morse clusters, and the double funnel landscape of the 38-atom Lennard-Jones cluster. Interwell rate constants are calculated using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory within the harmonic approximation, but anharmonic model partition functions are also considered. Decreasing the range of the potential in the Morse clusters is shown to hinder relaxation toward the global minimum, and this effect is related to the concomitant changes in the energy landscape. The relaxation modes that emerge from the master equation are interpreted and analyzed to extract interfunnel rate constants for the Lennard-Jones cluster. Since this system is too large for a complete characterization of the energy landscape, the conditions under which the master equation can be applied to a limited database are explored. Connections are made to relaxation processes in proteins and structural glasses.
11971135	TATA binding protein (TBP) and transcription factor IIB (TFIIB) are key factors for the assembly of eukaryotic transcription initiation complexes. We used a rice whole-cell extract in vitro transcription system to characterize the functional interactions of recombinant plant TBP and TFIIB. Bacterially expressed rice TBP (OsTBP2) bound to the TATA box of the rice pal gene encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, caused DNA bending, and enhanced basal transcription from the pal promoter in a TATA box-dependent manner. Recombinant rice TFIIB (OsTFIIB) stimulated the DNA binding and bending activities of OsTBP2 and synergistically enhanced OsTBP2-mediated transcription from the pal promoter and the promoter of Rice tungro bacilliform virus but not from the barley pr1 promoter. We also demonstrate a physical interaction between OsTBP2 and RF2a, a rice bZIP transcription factor that bound to the box II cis element of the promoter of Rice tungro bacilliform virus, resulting in enhanced transcription from the viral promoter. Enhancement of rice whole-cell extracts with recombinant transcription factors thus provides a powerful tool for the in vitro determination of plant gene regulation mechanisms. We conclude that OsTBP2 undergoes promoter-specific functional interactions with both the basal transcription factor OsTFIIB and the accessory transcription factor RF2a.
11971145	Cyclophilins are peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerases that are highly conserved throughout eukaryotes and that are best known for being the cellular target of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A (CsA). The activity of CsA is caused by the drug forming a complex with cyclophilin A and inhibiting the calmodulin-dependent phosphoprotein phosphatase calcineurin. We have investigated the role of CYP1, a cyclophilin-encoding gene in the phytopathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea, which is the causal agent of rice blast disease. CYP1 putatively encodes a mitochondrial and cytosolic form of cyclophilin, and targeted gene replacement has shown that CYP1 acts as a virulence determinant in rice blast. Cyp1 mutants show reduced virulence and are impaired in associated functions, such as penetration peg formation and appressorium turgor generation. CYP1 cyclophilin also is the cellular target for CsA in Magnaporthe, and CsA was found to inhibit appressorium development and hyphal growth in a CYP1-dependent manner. These data implicate cyclophilins as virulence factors in phytopathogenic fungi and also provide evidence that calcineurin signaling is required for infection structure formation by Magnaporthe.
11971906	MADS-box proteins are transcription factors present in different eukaryotic kingdoms. In contrast to plants, for mammalian and yeast MADS-box proteins ternary complex formation with unrelated transcription factors was reported. We show here the first identification of such ternary interaction in plants. A rice seed-specific NF-YB was identified as partner of OsMADS18 by two-hybrid screening. NF-YB contains a histone fold motif, HFM,(1) and is part of the trimeric CCAAT-binding NF-Y complex. OsMADS18, alone or in combination with a natural partner, interacts with OsNF-YB1 through the MADS and I regions. The mouse NF-YB also associates with OsMADS18 in vivo and in vitro as a NF-YB-NF-YC dimer. Other rice MADS-box proteins do not interact in these assays, indicating specificity for the interaction. OsNF-YB1 is capable of heterodimerizing with NF-YC, but not trimerizing with NF-YA, thus precluding CCAAT binding. Mutation of the variant Asp at position 99 of the HFM alpha2-helix into a conserved serine recovers the capacity to interact with NF-YA, but not with DNA. This is the first indication that members of the NF-YB family work through mechanisms independent of the CCAAT box.
11971911	The advent of saturated molecular maps promised rapid progress towards the improvement of crops for genetically complex traits like drought resistance via analysis of quantitative trait loci (QTL). Progress with the identification of QTLs for drought resistance-related traits in rice is summarized here with the emphasis on a mapping population of a cross between drought-resistant varieties Azucena and Bala. Data which have used root morphological traits and indicators of drought avoidance in field-grown plants are reviewed, highlighting problems and uncertainties with the QTL approach. The contribution of root-growth QTLs to drought avoidance appears small in the experiments so far conducted, and the limitations of screening methodologies and the involvement of shoot-related mechanisms of drought resistance are studied. When compared to Azucena, Bala has been observed to have highly sensitive stomata, does not roll its leaves readily, has a greater ability to adjust osmotically, slows growth more rapidly when droughted and has a lower water-use efficiency. It is also a semi-dwarf variety and hence has a different canopy structure. There is a need to clarify the contribution of the shoot to drought resistance from the level of the biochemistry of photosynthesis through stomatal behaviour and leaf anatomy to canopy architecture. Recent advances in studying the physical and biochemical processes related to water use and drought stress offer the opportunity to advance a more holistic understanding of drought resistance. These include the potential use of infrared thermal imaging to study energy balance, integrated and online stable isotope analysis to dissect processes involved in carbon dioxide fixation and water evaporation, and leaf fluorescence to monitor photosynthesis and photochemical quenching. Justification and a strategy for this integrated approach is described, which has relevance to the study of drought resistance in most crops.
11972021	Control of gene expression requires cis-acting regulatory DNA sequences. Historically these sequences have been difficult to identify. Conserved noncoding sequences (CNSs) have recently been identified in mammalian genes through cross-species genomic DNA comparisons, and some have been shown to be regulatory sequences. Using sequence alignment algorithms, we compared genomic noncoding DNA sequences of the liguleless1 (lg1) genes in two grasses, maize and rice, and found several CNSs in lg1. These CNSs are present in multiple grass species that represent phylogenetically disparate lineages. Six other maize/rice genes were compared and five contained CNSs. Based on nucleotide substitution rates, these CNSs exist because they have biological functions. Our analysis suggests that grass CNSs are smaller and far less frequent than those identified in mammalian genes and that mammalian gene regulation may be more complex than that of grasses. CNSs make excellent pan-grass PCR-based genetic mapping tools. They should be useful as characters in phylogenetic studies and as monitors of gene regulatory complexity.
11972602	In children at high risk of inhalation allergy, food sensitization is associated with an increased risk for sensitization to inhalant allergens. Furthermore, this association was also found in a cross-sectional study. To examine in a prospective study, whether levels of IgG to foods (i.e. mixture of wheat and rice, mixture of soy bean and peanut, egg white, cow's milk, meat, orange and potato) indicate an increased risk for the future development of IgE antibodies to inhalant allergens in a low-risk population and whether they can be used as predictors of the subsequent development of IgE antibodies in young, initially IgE-negative children. Coughing children, aged 1-5, visiting their GPs, were tested for IgE antibodies to mite, dog and cat (RAST) and IgG (ELISA) to foods. All IgE-negative children were retested for IgE antibodies after two years. The IgG results (66 percentiles) of the first blood sample were compared to the RAST-scores of the second blood sample. After two years, 51 out of 397 (12.8%) originally IgE-negative children, had become IgE-positive for cat, dog and/or mite. An increased IgG antibody level to wheat-rice (OR = 2.2) and to orange (OR = 2.0) indicated an increased risk of developing IgE to cat, dog or mite allergens. In addition to IgG to a mixture of wheat-rice and orange; total IgE, breastfeeding, eczema as a baby and age were the most important predictors for the subsequent development of IgE to inhalant allergens. An increased IgG antibody level to a mixture of wheat-rice or orange, indicates an increased risk of developing IgE to cat, dog or mite allergens. This indicates that excessive activity of the mucosal immune system is present before IgE antibodies to airborne allergens can be demonstrated. Nevertheless, IgG to foods is not very helpful (with a positive predictive value of 16.5%, and negative predictive value of 90.6%) in identifying individual children at risk in clinical practice. However, besides other risk factors, IgG to wheat-rice and to orange could be useful as a screening test for studies in the early identification, i.e. before IgE antibodies can be detected, of children with an increased risk of developing IgE antibodies in the future.
11972898	Animal and yeast proteins containing long coiled-coil domains are involved in attaching other proteins to the large, solid-state components of the cell. One subgroup of long coiled-coil proteins are the nuclear lamins, which are involved in attaching chromatin to the nuclear envelope and have recently been implicated in inherited human diseases. In contrast to other eukaryotes, long coiled-coil proteins have been barely investigated in plants. We have searched the completed Arabidopsis genome and have identified a family of structurally related long coiled-coil proteins. Filament-like plant proteins (FPP) were identified by sequence similarity to a tomato cDNA that encodes a coiled-coil protein which interacts with the nuclear envelope-associated protein, MAF1. The FPP family is defined by four novel unique sequence motifs and by two clusters of long coiled-coil domains separated by a non-coiled-coil linker. All family members are expressed in a variety of Arabidopsis tissues. A homolog sharing the structural features was identified in the monocot rice, indicating conservation among angiosperms. Except for myosins, this is the first characterization of a family of long coiled-coil proteins in plants. The tomato homolog of the FPP family binds in a yeast two-hybrid assay to a nuclear envelope-associated protein. This might suggest that FPP family members function in nuclear envelope biology. Because the full Arabidopsis genome does not appear to contain genes for lamins, it is of interest to investigate other long coiled-coil proteins, which might functionally replace lamins in the plant kingdom.
11973021
11973022
11974553
11975731	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are modules involved in the transduction of extracellular signals to intracellular targets in all eukaryotes. In plants, there is evidence for MAPKs playing a role in the signalling of abiotic stresses, pathogens, plant hormones, and cell cycle cues. The large number and divergence of plant MAPKs indicates that this ancient mechanism of signal transduction is extensively used in plants. However, there have been no reports of classical MAPK module in rice. In this report, we have isolated a MAPK from rice (Oryza sativa) termed OsMAPK2. The cloned cDNA is 1457 nucleotides long and the deduced amino acid sequence comprised 369 amino acid residues. Sequence analysis revealed that the predicted amino acid sequence is 72% identical to tobacco wound-induced protein kinase (WIPK). Southern analysis suggested a single OsMAPK2 gene in rice. Analysis at the mRNA level has shown that OsMAPK2 is expressed in all plant organs and high relative amounts of OsMAPK2 were detected in the mature panicles in comparison with in the immature panicles. In suspension-cultured cells, the OsMAPK2 mRNA transcript increased markedly upon temperature downshift from 26 degrees C to 4 degrees C and sucrose starvation. In contrast, the OsMAPK2 mRNA level rapidly declined in rice cell challenged by high temperature. A similarly rapid response of OsMAPK2 was observed in stress-treated seedlings, demonstrating that response of the MAPK pathway occurs also in intact plants. These results suggest that this OsMAPK2 may function in the stress-signalling pathway as well as panicle development in rice.
11975732	1L-myo-inositol-1-phosphate [Ins(1)P1] synthase (EC 5.5.1.4) catalyses the formation of Ins(1)P1 from glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in the biosynthesis of myo-inositol. Ins(1)P1 is a precursor of phytin (inositol hexakisphosphate), a storage form of phosphate and cations in seeds. Since sucrose and abscisic acid (ABA) are known to affect synthesis of storage compounds in seeds, we investigated the effects of ABA and sucrose on Ins(1)P1 synthase gene (RINO1) expression in cultured cells derived from the scutellum of mature rice seeds. Higher levels of RINO1 transcript accumulation were evident after treatment with either sucrose (10-100 mM) or ABA (10-8 M to 10-4 M). Glucose was also effective in the upregulation, whereas mannitol was not, suggesting that sucrose and glucose acted as metabolizable sugars and not as osmotica. Treatment with ABA and sucrose together resulted in much higher levels of transcript accumulation, suggesting a synergistic induction of the Ins(1)P1 synthase gene.
11976125	Methane emission from paddy fields may be reduced by the addition of electron acceptors to stimulate microbial populations competitive to methanogens. We have studied the effects of ferrihydrite and gypsum (CaSO(4). 2H(2)O) amendment on methanogenesis and population dynamics of methanogens after flooding of Italian rice field soil slurries. Changes in methanogen community structure were followed by archaeal small subunit (SSU) ribosomal DNA (rDNA)- and rRNA-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and by quantitative SSU rRNA hybridization probing. Under ferrihydrite amendment, acetate was consumed efficiently (<60 microM) and a rapid but incomplete inhibition of methanogenesis occurred after 3 days. In contrast to unamended controls, the dynamics of Methanosarcina populations were largely suppressed as indicated by rDNA and rRNA analysis. However, the low acetate availability was still sufficient for activation of Methanosaeta spp., as indicated by a strong increase of SSU rRNA but not of relative rDNA frequencies. Unexpectedly, rRNA amounts of the novel rice cluster I (RC-I) methanogens increased significantly, while methanogenesis was low, which may be indicative of transient energy conservation coupled to Fe(III) reduction by these methanogens. Under gypsum addition, hydrogen was rapidly consumed to low levels (approximately 0.4 Pa), indicating the presence of a competitive population of hydrogenotrophic sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). This was paralleled by a suppressed activity of the hydrogenotrophic RC-I methanogens as indicated by the lowest SSU rRNA quantities detected in all experiments. Full inhibition of methanogenesis only became apparent when acetate was depleted to nonpermissive thresholds (<5 microM) after 10 days. Apparently, a competitive, acetotrophic population of SRB was not present initially, and hence, acetotrophic methanosarcinal populations were less suppressed than under ferrihydrite amendment. In conclusion, although methane production was inhibited effectively under both mitigation regimens, different methanogenic populations were either suppressed or stimulated, which demonstrates that functionally similar disturbances of an ecosystem may result in distinct responses of the populations involved.
11976158	Epidemiologic studies have found whole-grain intake to be inversely associated with the risk of type 2 diabetes and heart disease. We tested the hypothesis that whole-grain consumption improves insulin sensitivity in overweight and obese adults. This controlled experiment compared insulin sensitivity between diets (55% carbohydrate, 30% fat) including 6-10 servings/d of breakfast cereal, bread, rice, pasta, muffins, cookies, and snacks of either whole or refined grains. Total energy needs were estimated to maintain body weight. Eleven overweight or obese [body mass index (in kg/m(2)): 27-36] hyperinsulinemic adults aged 25-56 y participated in a randomized crossover design. At the end of each 6-wk diet period, the subjects consumed 355 mL (12 oz) of a liquid mixed meal, and blood samples were taken over 2 h. The next day a euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp test was administered. Fasting insulin was 10% lower during consumption of the whole-grain than during consumption of the refined-grain diet (mean difference: -15 +/- 5.5 pmol/L; P = 0.03). After the whole-grain diet, the area under the 2-h insulin curve tended to be lower (-8832 pmol.min/L; 95% CI: -18720, 1062) than after the refined-grain diet. The rate of glucose infusion during the final 30 min of the clamp test was higher after the whole-grain diet (0.07 x 10(-4) mmol.kg(-1).min(-1) per pmol/L; 95% CI: 0.003 x 10(-4), 0.144 x 10(-4)). Insulin sensitivity may be an important mechanism whereby whole-grain foods reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
11976161	In rural Vietnam, vitamin A deficiency is a concern. Among the indigenous fruit and vegetables, Momordica cochinchinensis (gac) fruit has been identified as having the highest beta-carotene concentration. Locally, it is mixed with rice in a preparation called xoi gac. The purpose of this study was to assess this beta-carotene- rich rice preparation as a source of provitamin A for children in rural Vietnam. Preschoolers (n = 185) participated in a 30-d controlled supplementation trial. Children with low hemoglobin concentrations were assigned to 1 of 3 groups: a fruit group, who received xoi gac that contained 3.5 mg beta-carotene per serving; a powder group, who received rice mixed with 5.0 mg synthetic beta-carotene powder; and a control group, who received rice without fortification. The mean increase in plasma beta-carotene concentrations in the fruit and powder groups was significantly greater than that in the control group (P < 0.0001). After supplementation, the mean plasma retinol concentration in the fruit group was significantly higher than that in the control (P = 0.006) and powder (P = 0.0053) groups. Among the children with initial hemoglobin concentrations <or=110 g/L, the mean increase in hemoglobin concentrations in the fruit group was marginally higher than that in the control group (P = 0.017) but was not significantly different from that in the powder group. beta-Carotene from xoi gac is a good source of provitamin A carotenoids. Severely anemic children might particularly benefit from routine xoi gac consumption
11976957	We have developed a high-throughput yeast two-hybrid screening system (HTP-YTH) that incorporates yeast gap-repair cloning, multiple positive (ADE2, HIS3, lacZ) and negative (URA3-based) selection schemes to reduce the incidence of negative and false positive clones, and automation of laboratory procedures to increase throughput. This HTP-YTH system has been applied to the study of protein-protein interactions that are involved in rice defense signal transduction pathways. More than 100 genes involved in plant defense responses were selected from DuPont's rice expressed sequence tag (EST) databases as baits for HTP-YTH screening. Results from YTH screening of eight of these rice genes are presented in this paper. Not only have we identified known protein-protein interactions, but we have also discovered novel interactions, which may ultimately reveal the regulatory network of host defense signal transduction pathways. We have demonstrated that our HTP-YTH method can be used to map protein-protein interaction networks and signal transduction pathways in any system. In combination with other approaches, such efficient YTH screens can help us systemically to study the functions of known and unknown genes in the genomics era.
11978871	The psbO gene encoding the extrinsic 33 kDa protein of oxygen-evolving photosystem II (PSII) complex was cloned and sequenced from a red alga, Cyanidium caldarium. The gene encodes a polypeptide of 333 residues, of which the first 76 residues served as transit peptides for transfer across the chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membrane. The mature protein consists of 257 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 28,290 Da. The sequence homology of the mature 33 kDa protein was 42.9-50.8% between the red alga and cyanobacteria, and 44.7-48.6% between the red alga and higher plants. The cloned gene was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant protein was purified, subjected to protease-treatments. The cleavage sites of the 33 kDa protein by chymotrypsin or V8 protease were determined and compared among a cyanobacterium (Synechococcus elongatus), a euglena (Euglena gracilis), a green alga (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii) and two higher plants (Spinacia oleracea and Oryza sativa). The cleavage sites by chymotrypsin were at 156F and 190F for the cyanobacterium, 159M, 160F and 192L for red alga, 11Y and 151F for euglena, 10Yand 150F for green alga, and 16Y for spinach, respectively. The cleavage sites by V8 protease were at 181E (cyanobacterium), 182E and 195E (red alga), 13E, 67E, 69E, 153D and 181E (euglena), 176E and 180E (green alga), and 18E or 19E (higher plants). Since most of the residues at these cleavage sites were conserved among the six organisms, the results indicate that the structure of the 33 kDa protein, at least the structure based on the accessibility by proteases, is different among these organisms. In terms of the cleavage sites, the structure of the 33 kDa protein can be divided into three major groups: cyanobacterial and red algal-type has cleavage sites at residues around 156-195, higher plant-type at residues 16-19, and euglena and green algal-type at residues of both cyanobacterial and higher plant-types.
11978873	To establish the significance of cell wall invertase in grain filling of rice (Oryza sativa L.), we cloned a cDNA for a cell wall invertase from developing grains of rice. The cDNA, designated OsCIN1, contains an open reading frame of 1731 bp encoding a polypeptide of 577 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence showed typical features of the cell wall invertases, including a beta-fructosidase motif and a cysteine catalytic site, and shared 78.6 and 73.7% identity with maize cell wall invertases, Incw1 and Incw2, respectively. OsCIN1 is expressed in roots, in sink- and source-leaves, and in panicles. During the course of grain filling in the caryopses, OsCIN1 transcript is detectable only in the very early stage of their development, 1-4 d after flowering, when the cell wall invertase activity is the highest and the increase in caryopsis length is rapid. In situ localization of the mRNA revealed that OsCIN1 is expressed preferentially in the vascular parenchyma of the dorsal vein, integument and its surrounding cells, and is expressed weakly in the nucellar projection and nucellar epidermis. These results suggest that, during the early stage of caryopsis development, OsCIN1 is important for supplying a carbon source to developing filial tissues by cleaving unloaded sucrose in the apoplast.
11981540
11982443	The secondary metabolites of 24 isolates of Fusarium avenaceum from Norwegian cereals and grown on rice have been characterized. Moniliformin (MON), enniatins (ENNs), and beauvericin (BEA) were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Porcine kidney epithelial cells (PK15, American Type Culture Collection) were used to study the cytotoxicity of MON in the extracts. The following metabolites were produced by all isolates, ranked by concentration in rice cultures: ENN-B, MON, ENN-B1, and ENN-A. BEA was produced by eight isolates. The productions of BEA and ENN-A were significantly correlated, as was the case with ENN-B and ENN-B1. MON production was correlated neither to any of the other toxins nor to toxicity.
11982933	The expression of asparagine synthetase (AS; EC 6.3.5.4) in response to externally supplied nitrogen was investigated with respect to enzyme activity and protein levels as detected immunologically in rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings. The asparagine content was very low in leaves and roots of nitrogen-starved rice plants but increased significantly after the supply of 1 mM NH4+ to the nutrient solution. While neither AS activity nor AS protein could be detected in leaves and roots prior to the supply of nitrogen, levels became detectable in roots but not in leaves within 12 h of the supply of 1 mM NH4+ or 10 mM glutamine. Other nitrogen compounds, such as nitrate, glutamate, aspartate and asparagine had no effect. Methionine sulfoximine completely inhibited the NH4+-induced accumulation of AS protein but did not affect the glutamine-induced accumulation of the enzyme. The results suggested that glutamine or glutamine-derived metabolites regulate AS expression in rice roots.
11983821	Iron deficiency is one of the most prevalent nutrient deficiencies in the world. A sustainable solution to dietary iron deficiency may be achieved in part by increasing bioavailable iron in seeds used for foods such as rice. Because ferritin is used as a natural source of iron in the early development of humans, other animals and plants, the bioavailability of iron in rice seeds, provided in amounts equal to ferrous sulfate, and in transgenic rice with ferritin was tested in iron-deficient rats. A standard hemoglobin (Hb) repletion bioassay was used with rats made anemic followed by complete diets containing equivalent amounts of iron as FeSO(4) or one of three different bioengineered rice varieties (Kitaake and two transgenic derivatives with ferritin targeted to the seed, FK11 and FK22). Rice diets were as effective as the FeSO(4) diet in replenishing hematocrit, Hb concentration and liver iron concentrations. These data suggest that Mendelian and biotechnological approaches to manipulating ferritin expression of seed iron in rice may contribute to a sustainable solution to global problems of iron deficiency.
11985001	The aim of the study was to describe trends in food habits in Denmark derived from a food frequency survey conducted by the Danish Nutrition Council in 2001 and compare it to similar surveys from 1995 and 1998. A random population sample of 1000 men and women (aged 15-91 years) were interviewed by telephone. They were asked 13 food frequency questions about nutritionally important foods (yoghurt, milk, cheese, rye bread, wheat bread, sandwiches with fish, fish as the main meal, meat as the main meal, potatoes, rice/pasta, vegetables (two questions) fruit) and about the type of milk and fat spreads most often used. Several of the changes seen from 1995 to 1998 had continued into the 1998-2001 period. The results showed increased frequencies for shredded salad/raw vegetables and rice/pasta, but reduced frequencies for meat as the main meal and potatoes. Fruit consumption had also increased between 1998 and 2001. Average frequencies differed by 13-28%. Another pronounced trend was the increased use of low-fat milk (< or = 0.5% fat) instead of whole milk (42% drinking low-fat milk in 2001 versus 28% in 1998) and the greater numbers who did not spread any kind of fat on their bread (40% versus 22% in 1995, for rye bread). In general the observed trends point in the right direction in respect of food-based dietary guidelines and other recommendations. This indicates that the Danish population has been influenced by the nutritional messages and campaigns stressing fat reduction and increased intake of fruit and vegetables. An important factor in this context is the increasing availability of low-fat milk products on the Danish market. Whether or not the positive trends for foods included are supported by the rest of the diet remains to be answered.
11985267	A mapping population of 98 BC1F9 lines (backcross inbred lines: BILs), derived from a backcross of Nipponbare (japonica)/Kasalath (indica)//Nipponbare by the single-seed descent methods, was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for resistance to brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Stål). Seedbox Screening Technique (SST) was applied to evaluate the reactions of two parents and 98 BILs to BPH at the seedling stage, and the entries were graded on ratio of dead seedlings. A total of three QTL controlling BPH resistance were detected on chromosomes 2, 10 and 12, respectively. Individual QTL accounted for between 10.4% and 16.6% of the phenotypic variance, and the resistance of all the three QTL came from Kasalath, the moderate resistance parent. These QTL should be useful in breeding of varieties resistant to BPH in marker-assisted selection (MAS) program.
11985268	Ninety-six F2 lines derived from a cross between a japonica cultivar Taichung 65 and an indica cultivar Bhadua were developed. At the first step, an RFLP linkage map based on the F2 lines was constructed. The RFLP map contained 94 RFLP makers. F2 sterility and heading date are important agronomic traits of rice; meanwhile heading date is related to many characters of agronomic importance including sterility. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was carried out to identify genes controlling F2 sterility and heading date. Both single factor analysis and interval analysis were applied for QTL analysis. Two QTLs for F2 spikelet sterility were newly detected on Chromosome 1 and 8. Five QTLs for heading date were detected on Chromosome 1, 4, 6, 8 and 10. Two of them on chromosome 1 and 10 were newly detected. Near-isogenic lines are now under construction for further QTL analysis and gene mapping of these QTLs newly identified in this paper.
11985408	To evaluate the dietary patterns of 7-year-old children participating in an atherosclerosis prevention project and the relationship of those dietary patterns to nutrient intakes and serum cholesterol values. In the randomized, prospective Special Turku Coronary Risk Factor Intervention Project (STRIP) 1,062 children were randomly assigned to an intervention group (n=540; low-saturated fat, low-cholesterol diet) or to a control group (n=522; unrestricted diet) at 7 months of age. The intervention families received, at 6-month intervals, individualized counseling that focused on the known environmental atherosclerosis risk factors and aimed at reducing children's saturated fat and cholesterol intake. Nutrition counseling was targeted at the child but, because of the young age of the children, was given to the parents. When children were 7 years old, food and nutrient intakes of 307 intervention and 323 control children were studied using 4-day food records. K-means cluster analysis was used to classify children into 4 groups on the basis of similarity of food intake. Differences in nutrient intakes and serum lipid concentrations between children in the 4 food intake clusters were evaluated using Tukey's multiple comparison test. Intervention children dominated the bread, skim milk, and margarine cluster and the cereals, rice, and pasta cluster whereas the 1.5%-fat milk and butter cluster included mainly control children. Saturated fat intake was nearest to the recommendations, that is 11.7% and 11.9% of energy, in the bread, skim milk, and margarine cluster and the cereals, rice, and pasta cluster, respectively. Children in the bread, skim milk, and margarine cluster had 20% to 27% higher fiber intakes (P<.001) whereas children in the sugar and sweets cluster had markedly higher sugar intakes than children in other clusters (P<.001). Serum cholesterol concentrations were lower in those clusters with high dietary ratios of polyunsaturated to saturated fat. Detailed and repeated dietary counseling of parents, starting when children are aged 7 months, that aims at decreasing children's exposure to known nutrition risk factors for coronary heart disease modifies children's food patterns and nutrient intakes toward expected values.
11985849	The known metabolite, enniatin B, and a cyclic tetrapeptide, JM47, which is a new natural product, were extracted from brown rice cultures of a marine fungus, identified as a Fusarium species, isolated from the marine alga Codium fragile. NMR studies, including 15N HMQC and 15N HMBC, established the structure of JM47 as cyclo(Ala-Ala-Aoh-Pro), where Aoh is the amino acid, (2S,9S)-2-amino-8-oxo-9-hydroxydecanoic acid. The absolute stereochemistry of the Aoh side chain carbinol centre was determined using Mosher ester methodology. Analysis of NOESY data assisted by molecular modelling revealed an alternating L-, D-, L-, D-configuration for the tetrapeptide core. The absolute stereochemistry of the core was determined by acidic hydrolysis and chiral TLC analysis of the proline residue. JM47 belongs to the HC-toxin family of cyclic tetrapeptides which possess a 2-amino-8-oxo-9,10-epoxydecanoic acid residue in place of the Aoh unit. This is the first report of an analogue of HC-toxin from a marine Fusarium species.
11987308	There is an increasing realization that it may be impossible to attain Earth normal atmospheric pressures in orbital, lunar, or Martian greenhouses, simply because the construction materials do not exist to meet the extraordinary constraints imposed by balancing high engineering requirements against high lift costs. This equation essentially dictates that NASA have in place the capability to grow plants at reduced atmospheric pressure. Yet current understanding of plant growth at low pressures is limited to just a few experiments and relatively rudimentary assessments of plant vigor and growth. The tools now exist, however, to make rapid progress toward understanding the fundamental nature of plant responses and adaptations to low pressures, and to develop strategies for mitigating detrimental effects by engineering the growth conditions or by engineering the plants themselves. The genomes of rice and the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana have recently been sequenced in their entirety, and public sector and commercial DNA chips are becoming available such that thousands of genes can be assayed at once. A fundamental understanding of plant responses and adaptation to low pressures can now be approached and translated into procedures and engineering considerations to enhance plant growth at low atmospheric pressures. In anticipation of such studies, we present here the background arguments supporting these contentions, as well as informed speculation about the kinds of molecular physiological responses that might be expected of plants in low-pressure environments.
11988866	The antioxidant properties of isovitexin and related flavonoids were studied. Isovitexin inhibited xanthine oxidase with an IC50 value of = 15.2 microM. The flavonoid analogues, apigenin, kaempferol, quercetin, myricetin, and genistein also inhibited xanthine oxidase with IC50 values of 0.58, 2.18, 1.09, 9.90, and 4.83 microM, respectively. Isovitexin protected DNA from the Fenton reaction-induced breakage in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 value of 9.52 microM. Isovitexin also protected HL-60 cells from the ROS damage induced by the xanthine/xanthine oxidase reaction. Isovitexin exhibited the lowest cytotoxicity toward HL-60 cells (LD50 >400 microM) compared to the other flavonoids examined. In addition, excess hydrogen peroxide induced by cadmium in A2780 ovarian cells was significantly suppressed by isovitexin. These results suggest that isovitexin in rice may protect cells from oxidative stress.
11990509	In combination with two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-DE) protein mapping and mass spectrometry analysis, the pattern of gene expression in specific tissues at a specific stage can be displayed and characterised. We used this approach for rice (Oryza sativa L. cultivar Doongara) to display and assign identity to proteins in the anthers at the young microspore stage. Over 4000 anther proteins in the pI range of 4-11 and molecular mass range of 6-122 kDa were reproducibly resolved after silver staining, representing about 10% of the estimated total genomic output of rice. Two hundred and seventy-three protein spots have been extracted either from polyninylidene diffluoride membrane blots or from colloidal Coomassie blue stained 2-DE gels and analysed by N-terminal sequencing, Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MS) analysis or tandem MS sequencing. This enabled identification of 53 anther protein spots representing 43 different proteins. Using the publicly available rice expressed sequence tag (EST) database at the National Centre for Biotechnology Information, a further 37 protein spots were matched to ESTs. After BLAST searching with these ESTs, we were able to predict the identity of 22 of these protein spots. Proteome reference maps of rice anthers have been constructed according to the SWISS-2DPAGE standards and are available for public access at http://semele.anu.edu.au/2d/2d.html.
11990510	Proteins extracted from leaf blades of rice plants infected with blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The separated proteins were electroblotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, and 63 proteins were analyzed by a gas-phase protein sequencer. The N-terminal amino acid sequences of 33 out of 63 proteins were determined in this manner. N-terminal regions of the remaining proteins could not be sequenced. The internal amino acid sequences of 12 proteins were determined by sequence analysis of peptides obtained by the Cleveland peptide mapping method. The amino acid sequences were compared with those of known plant and animal protein sequences to understand the nature of these proteins. As expected, leaf blades revealed predominantly the presence of photosynthetic proteins. Using this experimental approach named as proteome analysis, the functional proteins during blast fungus infection of rice with different levels of nitrogen nutrient were analyzed. Twelve proteins which appeared to change with different levels of nitrogen nutrient were identified. It was revealed that the level of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase was increased by top-dressing with nitrogen nutrient. Additionally, the pathogenesis related protein were observed following blast fungus infection using immunoblot analysis. It was conjectured that these proteins might be involved in incompatible interaction in rice plants following blast fungus infection. The information obtained on the amino acid sequences and antibodies interaction is expected to be helpful in predicting the function of these proteins.
11991077	Cultivation of the oyster mushroom, Pleurotus sajor-caju, on rice and wheat straw without nutrient supplementation was investigated. The effects of straw size reduction method and particle size, spawn inoculation level, and type of substrate (rice straw versus wheat straw) on mushroom yield, biological efficiency, bioconversion efficiency, and substrate degradation were determined. Two size reduction methods, grinding and chopping, were compared. The ground straw yielded higher mushroom growth rate and yield than the chopped straw. The growth cycles of mushrooms with the ground substrate were five days shorter than with the chopped straw for a similar particle size. However, it was found that when the straw was ground into particles that were too small, the mushroom yield decreased. With the three spawn levels tested (12%, 16% and 18%), the 12% level resulted in significantly lower mushroom yield than the other two levels. Comparing rice straw with wheat straw, rice straw yielded about 10% more mushrooms than wheat straw under the same cultivation conditions. The dry matter loss of the substrate after mushroom growth varied from 30.1% to 44.3%. The straw fiber remaining after fungal utilization was not as degradable as the original straw fiber, indicating that the fungal fermentation did not improve the feed value of the straw.
11991222	Ferulic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid) is a phenolic compound contained in rice bran and other plants. The effect of ferulic acid on blood pressure (BP) was investigated in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). After oral administration of ferulic acid (1 to 100 mg/kg) to SHR, systolic blood pressure (SBP) significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner. When oral ferulic acid (50 mg/kg) was administered to SHR, BP was lowest at 1 h and returned to basal levels at 6 h. There was a significant correlation between SHR plasma ferulic acid and changes in the SBP of the tail artery, suggesting that absorbed ferulic acid reduces BP. When 7-week-old SHR were given 10 and 50 mg/kg/d of ferulic acid for 6 weeks, increases in BP were significantly attenuated compared to SHR on the control diet. Intravenous injection of ferulic acid dose dependently reduced carotid arterial pressure in anesthetized SHR. Furthermore, the depressor effect of intravenous ferulic acid (1 mg/kg) was significantly attenuated by pretreatment of SHR with the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 3 mg/kg, administered intravenously). These data suggest that the hypotensive effect of ferulic acid in SHR is associated with NO-mediated vasodilation.
11993110	Reactive X-3B red dye entering into environment is a typical persistent organic pollutant(POPs). Transport of the dye from water to soil and from soil to crop compartment is a continuous ecological process. According to the cognitionm, the quantitative depiction of the process using mathematical models was theoretically discussed. Some of the mathematical models were also verified using burozem-soybean, cinnamon soil-wheat, krasnozem-radish, aquorizem-rice systems. In particular, transference of the dye from water compartment to soil compartment by way of adsorbent mechanisms was accorded with the Langmuir model, and movement of the dye from soil compartment to crop compartment on the basis of root-absorbing mechanisms could be expressed using logarithmic crop-soil accumulation factor(CSAF) models.
11993111	Ecotoxicological indexes of wheat, Chinese cabbage and rice exposed to reactive X-3B red dye were studied using the experimental method of crop seed exposure. The results showed that reactions of the three crops to reactive X-3B red dye were different from each other. Based on the inhibition of seed gemination, the half effect concentration(IC50) of wheat, Chinese cabbage and rice was 8965, 7010 and 7514 mg.L-1. Based on the inhibition of root elongation, the IC50 of wheat, Chinese cabbage and rice was 6534, 5882 and 4570 mg.L-1. When seedlings were cultured for seven days after the gemination of seeds and the remaining seeds or husks were discarded, fresh and dry growing biomass of the three crops exposed to the dye was both decreased with the increasing the concentration of reactive X-3B red dye. However, the decrease rate of fresh biomass was higher than that of dry biomass. Biomass index of wheat was most sensitive to reactive X-3B red dye, followed by rice, and Chinese cabbage was most inertia when the crops were exposed to reactive X-3B red dye with the high concentration of 4500 and 5000 mg.L-1. As far as the tolerance of wheat, Chinese cabbage and rice to reactive X-3B red dye was concerned, wheat had the strongest tolerance, on the contrary rice had the wakestone.
11993118	Effects of land utilization of sewage sludge on crops and soil environment were studied using sewage sludge from the Northern Shenyang Plant of Wastewater Treatment. The results showed that contents of nitrogen, phosphorus and organic matter in the soil were increased after the utilization of sewage sludge, thus being advantageous to growth and development of crops. The biomass of rice after having applied 22.5 and 45 t.hm-2 of sewage sludge was increased by 11.48%-11.83% compared with the control. There was no evident harmful effect of heavy methals from sewage sludge on quality of soil environment, agricultural products and underground water when the application of sewage sludge was controlled within the range of 45 t.hm-2.
11993123	Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is an active component in territorial ecosystems. Effects of two types of DOMs extracted from sediment(DOMsed) and rice straw(DOMrs) on isotherm adsorption of Cd in latosol red soil (acidic soil), paddy soil and drab soil(alkaline soil) were studied using batch equilibrium studies. The maximum adsorption of Cd in all the 3 soils used was reduced by the additions of both of DOMsed and DOMrs. The range of the maximum adsorption of Cd decreased from 17.3% to 93.9% from all the 3 soils when DOMs were added. It was found that the decreased in the maximum adsorption of Cd was in order of latosol red soil > paddy soil > drab soil when the same DOM(DOMsed or DOMrs) was added. Effects of DOMsed or DOMrs on Cd adsorption were positively related with the soil pH. The maximum adsorption of Cd in the soils was dependent on the characteristics of soil solid when no DOM was added, and decided by the DOMs in soil solution when DOM was added. The results imply that the proposed technology using organic manure to stabilize Cd in soils is not suitable for remediation of contaminated soil.
11993127	The concept of soil health quality was discussed from the angle of sustainable and safe agricultural production and nutritive agricultural products. Based on the data of 13 higher-yield rice-farms and its corresponding irrigated rivers in the Taihu region, problems of health quality occurred in paddy soil were discussed. Owing to the high application of inorganic fertilizers in those farms, high available P and N were observed in paddy soil and river sediments. The contents of heavy metals such as Pb, Cu, Ni and Co in paddy soil were still at the level of background values. However, it was found that some rivers were seriously polluted by Cu, Zn and Pb. Several cases of point-source pollution of heavy metal were found in paddy soil in the region. The contents of DDT and HCH in soils and river sediments were lower than their maximum allowable concentrations. The results of lower selenium content in agricultural product owing to lower content in paddy soil indicted that the Taihu region is a selenium-deficient area.
11993949	In order to get a better understanding of the environmental behavior of 95Zr and to generate fundamental data for evaluation of its ecological risk, an experiment was conducted to study 95Zr dynamics in a simulated rice/water/soil system. The results showed that the concentration of 95Zr in surface water decreased rapidly with time due to precipitation, adsorption to soil and uptake by rice, and most of 95Zr in soil was found concentrated in the surface layer (0-8 cm from surface). The 95Zr could not readily move downwards with percolating water and remained in surface soil. The 95Zr taken up from surface water and surface soil mainly concentrated in roots and lower parts of stem. The concentration of 95Zr in upper part of stem and leaves were relatively lower, which were only slightly greater than the detection limit. The 95Zr concentration in tassel was near the detection limit. The dynamics of 95Zr concentrations in rice, water and soil can be described with exponential function.
11997166	Real-time PCR is a new and highly sensitive method for the quantification of microbial organisms in environmental samples. This work was conducted to evaluate real-time PCR with SybrGreen (SG) detection as quantification method for Desulfotomaculum lineage 1 organisms in samples of rice field soil. The method was optimized in several parameters like SG concentration. These allowed quantitative PCR with different primer combinations yielding PCR products with lengths up to 1066 bp and with sensitivities of 10(2) targets for all assays. The detection limit in environmental DNA extracts (rice bulk soil and rice roots) was 10(6) targets per gram dry weight according to the dilution of the DNA extracts necessary to overcome PCR inhibition of humic substances. A verification, that the fluorescence increase was due to specific PCR products, was done by agarose gel electrophoresis since melting curve analysis of the PCR products did not show a distinct peak in the first derivative, when the environmental DNA extracts were used in PCR. Amplification with a primer combination specific for Desulfotomaculum lineage 1 organisms showed an abundance of this group of approximately 2% and 0.5% of the eubacterial 16S rDNA targets in rice bulk soil and rice root samples, respectively. Approximately half of this number was obtained in both habitats with a PCR assay specific for a Desulfotomaculum sequence cluster obtained previously from rice field soil.
11997348	As part of an international effort to completely sequence the rice genome, we have produced a fine bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based physical map of the Oryza sativa japonica Nipponbare chromosome 4 through an integration of 114 sequenced BAC clones from a taxonomically related subspecies O. sativa indica Guangluai 4 and 182 RFLP and 407 expressed sequence tag (EST) markers with the fingerprinted data of the Nipponbare genome. The map consists of 11 contigs with a total length of 34.5 Mb covering 94% of the estimated chromosome size (36.8 Mb). BAC clones corresponding to telomeres, as well as to the centromere position, were determined by BAC-pachytene chromosome fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). This gave rise to an estimated length ratio of 5.13 for the long arm and 2.9 for the short arm (on the basis of the physical map), which indicates that the short arm is a highly condensed one. The FISH analysis and physical mapping also showed that the short arm and the pericentromeric region of the long arm are rich in heterochromatin, which occupied 45% of the chromosome, indicating that this chromosome is likely very difficult to sequence. To our knowledge, this map provides the first example of a rapid and reliable physical mapping on the basis of the integration of the data from two taxonomically related subspecies.
11997349	We describe a sequence assembler, RePS (repeat-masked Phrap with scaffolding), that explicitly identifies exact 20mer repeats from the shotgun data and removes them prior to the assembly. The established software is used to compute meaningful error probabilities for each base. Clone-end-pairing information is used to construct scaffolds that order and orient the contigs. We show with real data for human and rice that reasonable assemblies are possible even at coverages of only 4x to 6x, despite having up to 42.2% in exact repeats.
11997623
11999406	Optically active alpha-methylbenzyl phenyl ureas (MBPUs) show diverse plant physiological properties. Experiments were conducted to evaluate the salt-stress response of just-germinated rice seedlings supplemented with the S-enantiomer of MBPUs by assessing the growth and Na+ content. This study indicates that S-MBPUs served as a unique stress reliever for just-germinated young seedlings of rice injured by salinity. NaCl severely affected the root growth of rice seedlings. Concomitant treatment with S-MBPUs effectively ameliorated the growth inhibition of rice by NaCl. Glycine betaine (GB) did not act as a reliever of the NaCl stress. The addition of S-alpha-methylbenzyl 2-fluoro-4-methylphenyl urea (7, denoted as S-FM) to the saline medium ameliorated not only the root growth but also the protein content and dry weight of roots depending upon its concentration. The protein content, Na+ content and growth rate were correlated to each other with a positive relationship. The Na+ distribution ratio (S/R(Na+)) between the shoot and root increased with increasing concentration of NaCl when added alone, viz. with increasing growth reduction. A concomitant treatment with S-FM (7), however, resulted in the S/R(Na+) value becoming smaller with growth amelioration. This indicates that S-FM (7) controlled the translation of Na+ from the roots to shoots. S-FM (7) would have influenced some inherent functions connected with the Na+ behavior in the rice plant, although details of the mechanism for normalization of the S/R(Na+) ratio are still not clear.
11999735	Capillary electrochromatographic (CEC) separations of unsaponifiable lipids, tocopherols (T), tocotrienols (T3), and plant sterols were studied under various conditions. Investigated stationary phases include pentafluorophenylsilica (PFPS), triacontylsilica (TCS), and octadecylsilica (ODS) phases. A baseline separation of four sterols (ergosterol, lanosterol, sitosterol and stigmasterol) on ODS was achieved and their elution order was found to be dictated by side-chain structures. CEC of the tocol-derived compounds on PFPS in aqueous methanol yielded the most satisfactory results with complete resolution of all components eluting in the order deltaT3>beta3>gammaT3>epsilonP>alphaT3>deltaT>zeta2T>betaT>gammaT>alphaT, while a reversal in elution of the epsilonT-alphaT3 pair was observed in aqueous acetonitrile. CEC with a TCS phase in non-aqueous methanol led to a different elution pattern deltaT3>gammaT3>betaT3>alphaT3epsilonT>deltaT>(zeta2+gamma)T>betaT>alphaT, despite favorable resolution of the (gamma-zeta2)T pair along with the observation of inseparable(beta-gamma)T and (beta-gamma)T3 pairs in non-aqueous dimethylformamide. Non-aqueous acetonitrile mobile phases provided unique selectivity for the (gamma-zeta2)T pair and isomer separations on TCS. Variations in separation and retention factors of relevant antioxidant species with CEC variables were evaluated. Examples of CEC quantification of unsaponifiable fractions of rice bran oils and soybean oils are presented.
11999830	Using AFLP technology and a recombinant inbred line population derived from the sorghum cross of BTx623 x IS3620C, a high-density genetic map of the sorghum genome was constructed. The 1713 cM map encompassed 2926 loci distributed on ten linkage groups; 2454 of those loci are AFLP products generated from either the EcoRI/MseI or PstI/MseI enzyme combinations. Among the non-AFLP markers, 136 are SSRs previously mapped in sorghum, and 203 are cDNA and genomic clones from rice, barley, oat, and maize. This latter group of markers has been mapped in various grass species and, as such, can serve as reference markers in comparative mapping. Of the nearly 3000 markers mapped, 692 comprised a LOD >3.0 framework map on which the remaining markers were placed with lower resolution (LOD <3.0). By comparing the map positions of the common grass markers in all sorghum maps reported to date, it was determined that these reference markers were essentially collinear in all published maps. Some clustering of the EcoRI/MseI AFLP markers was observed, possibly in centromeric regions. In general, however, the AFLP markers filled most of the gaps left by the RFLP/SSR markers demonstrating that AFLP technology is effective in providing excellent genome coverage. A web site, http://SorghumGenome.tamu.edu, has been created to provide all the necessary information to facilitate the use of this map and the 2590 PCR-based markers. Finally, we discuss how the information contained in this map is being integrated into a sorghum physical map for map-based gene isolation, comparative genome analysis, and as a source of sequence-ready clones for genome sequencing projects.
11999831	Plant genomics projects involving model species and many agriculturally important crops are resulting in a rapidly increasing database of genomic and expressed DNA sequences. The publicly available collection of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from several grass species can be used in the analysis of both structural and functional relationships in these genomes. We analyzed over 260000 EST sequences from five different cereals for their potential use in developing simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. The frequency of SSR-containing ESTs (SSR-ESTs) in this collection varied from 1.5% for maize to 4.7% for rice. In addition, we identified several ESTs that are related to the SSR-ESTs by BLAST analysis. The SSR-ESTs and the related sequences were clustered within each species in order to reduce the redundancy and to produce a longer consensus sequence. The consensus and singleton sequences from each species were pooled and clustered to identify cross-species matches. Overall a reduction in the redundancy by 85% was observed when the resulting consensus and singleton sequences (3569) were compared to the total number of SSR-EST and related sequences analyzed (24 606). This information can be useful for the development of SSR markers that can amplify across the grass genera for comparative mapping and genetics. Functional analysis may reveal their role in plant metabolism and gene evolution.
11999843	Localizing genes that contribute to drought avoidance in a quantitative way should enable the exploitation of these genes in breeding through marker-assisted selection, and may lead to the discovery of gene identity and function. Between 110 and 176 F6 recombinant inbred lines from a mapping population derived from a cross of upland rice varieties Bala and Azucena have been evaluated for indicators of drought avoidance in sites in the Philippines and West Africa over two dry seasons. A molecular map with 102 RFLP, 34 AFLP and six microsatellite markers has been used to map (by composite interval mapping) quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for the visual scores of leaf rolling and leaf drying and leaf relative water content. QTLs were mapped for each site and across sites. A total of 17 regions were identified which contained QTLs with a LOD score greater than 3.2. For leaf rolling, Bala was the parent contributing the majority of positive alleles whilst for the other traits, Bala and Azucena contributed more evenly. Six of the 17 regions influenced more than one trait, explaining the phenotypic correlations between traits that were observed. Three QTLs appeared to be specific to the Philippines experiments. One QTL had opposing effects in the Philippines and West Africa. QTLs for relative water content were detected on chromosome 8, congruent with an osmotic adjustment QTL identified in another population. Only three of the QTLs identified here have not been reliably identified in the two other populations that have been screened for drought avoidance. By using several populations assessed for drought avoidance in different sites, the distribution and utility of QTLs for drought avoidance in rice is being elucidated.
11999846	We review some general points about comparative mapping, the evolution of gene families and recent advances in the understanding of angiosperm phylogeny. These are considered in relation to studies of large-genome cereals, particularly barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), with reference to methods of gene isolation. The relative merits of direct map-based cloning in barley and wheat, utilization of the smaller genome of rice (Oryza sativa) and gene homology methods that utilize information from model species such as Arabidopsis thaliana are briefly discussed.
11999852	Comparative genetic mapping has indicated that the grass family (Poaceae) exhibits extensive chromosomal collinearity. In order to investigate microcollinearity in these genomes, several laboratories have begun to undertake comparative DNA sequence analyses of orthologous chromosome segments from various grass species. Five different regions have now been investigated in detail, with four regions sequenced for maize, rice and sorghum, plus two for wheat and one for barley. In all five of these segments, gene rearrangements were observed in at least one of the comparisons. Most of the detected rearrangements are small, involving the inversion, duplication, translocation or deletion of DNA segments that contain only 1-3 genes. Even closely related species, like barley and wheat or maize and sorghum, exhibit approximately 20% alterations in gene content or orientation. These results indicate that thousands of small genetic rearrangements have occurred in several grass lineages since their divergence from common ancestors. These rearrangements have largely been missed by genetic mapping and will both complicate and enrich the use of comparative genetics in the grasses.
12000315	Methane-oxidizing bacteria (methanotrophs) consume a significant but variable fraction of greenhouse-active methane gas produced in wetlands and rice paddies before it can be emitted to the atmosphere. Temporal and spatial dynamics of methanotroph populations in California rice paddies were quantified using phospholipid biomarker analyses in order to evaluate the relative importance of type I and type II methanotrophs with depth and in relation to rice roots. Methanotroph population fluctuations occurred primarily within the top 0-2 cm of soil, where methanotroph cells increased by a factor of 3-5 over the flooded rice-growing season. The results indicate that rice roots and rhizospheres were less important than the soil-water interface in supporting methanotroph growth. Both type I and type II methanotrophs were abundant throughout the year. However, only type II populations were strongly correlated with soil porewater methane concentrations and rice growth.
12000455	The Arabidopsis PINHEAD/ZWILLE (PNH/ZLL) gene is thought to play an important role in the formation of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and in leaf adaxial cell specification. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of rice development, we have isolated a rice homologue of PNH/ZLL, called OsPNH1. Around the SAM, OsPNH1 was strongly expressed in developing leaf primordia, specifically in the presumptive vascular domains, developing vascular tissues, a few cell-layers of the adaxial region, and future bundle sheath extension cells. In the SAM, only weak expression was observed in the central region, whereas strong expression was detected in the mid-vein region of leaf founder cells in the peripheral SAM domain. We produced transgenic rice plants containing the antisense OsPNH1 strand. The antisense OsPNH1 plants developed malformed leaves with an altered vascular arrangement and abnormal internal structure. These plants also formed an aberrant SAM with reduced KNOX gene expression. We examined the subcellular localization of the OsPNH1-GFP fusion protein and found that it was localized in the cytoplasm. On the basis of these observations, we propose that OsPNH1 functions not only in SAM maintenance as previously thought, but also in leaf formation through vascular development.
12000679	RNA silencing of endogenous plant genes can be achieved by virus-mediated, transient expression of homologous gene fragments. This powerful, reverse genetic approach, known as virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS), has been demonstrated only in dicot plant species, where it has become an important tool for functional genomics. Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is a tripartite, positive-sense RNA virus that infects many agriculturally important monocot species including barley, oats, wheat and maize. To demonstrate VIGS in a monocot host, we modified BSMV to express untranslatable foreign inserts downstream of the gammab gene, in either sense or antisense orientations. Phytoene desaturase (PDS) is required for synthesizing carotenoids, compounds that protect chlorophyll from photo-bleaching. A partial PDS cDNA amplified from barley was 90, 88 and 74% identical to PDS cDNAs from rice, maize and Nicotiana benthamiana, respectively. Barley infected with BSMV expressing barley, rice or maize PDS fragments became photo-bleached and accumulated phytoene (the substrate for PDS) in a manner similar to plants treated with the chemical inhibitor of PDS, norflurazon. In contrast, barley infected with wild-type BSMV, or BSMV expressing either N. benthamiana PDS or antisense green fluorescent protein (GFP), did not photo-bleach or accumulate phytoene. Thus BSMV silencing of the endogenous PDS was homology-dependent. Deletion of the coat protein enhanced the ability of BSMV to silence PDS. This is the first demonstration of VIGS in a monocot, and suggests that BSMV can be used for functional genomics and studies of RNA-silencing mechanisms in monocot plant species.
12002187	The CO2 and N2O soil emissions at a rice paddy in Mase, Japan, were measured by enclosures during a fallow winter season. The Mase site, one of the AsiaFlux Network sites in Japan, has been monitored for moisture, heat, and CO2 fluxes since August 1999. The paddy soil was found to be a source of both CO2 and N2O flux from this experiment. The CO2 and N2O fluxes ranged from -27.6 to 160.4 microg CO2/m2/sec (average of 49.1 +/- 42.7 microg CO2/m2/sec) and from -4.4 to 129.5 ng N2O/m2/sec (average of 40.3 +/- 35.6 ng N2O/m2/ sec), respectively. A bimodal trend, which has a sub-peak in the morning around 10:00 a.m. and a primary peak between 2:00 and 3:00 p.m., was observed. Gas fluxes increased with soil temperature, but this temperature dependency seemed to occur only on the calm days. Average CO2 and N2O fluxes were 27.7 microg CO2/m2/sec and 13.4 ng N2O/m2/sec, with relatively small fluctuation during windy days, while averages of 69.3 microg CO2/m2/sec and 65.8 ng N2O/m2/sec were measured during calm days. This relationship was thought to be a result of strong surface winds, which enhance gas exchange between the soil surface and the atmosphere, thus reducing the gas emissions from soil surfaces.
12002477	One bottle of Yusho rice oil was obtained from a Yusho family in 1998. The levels of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the causal oil were investigated with two different approaches and the individual concentrations of all the 17 2,3,7,8-substituted PCDD/F and 14 coplanar PCB (Co-PCB) congeners were elucidated for the first time. The concentrations of PCDDs and PCDFs were found to be 0.60 and 8.8 ppm, respectively. For PCBs, more than 130 PCB peaks were observed and a total concentration of 850 ppm including 170 ppm of Co-PCBs was obtained. The toxic equivalents (TEQs) of PCDDs, PCDFs, and Co-PCBs were calculated to be 17, 470, and 120 ppb, respectively. The relative contribution of these classes to the total TEQ in Yusho oil is 3%, 77%, and 20%, respectively, indicating that PCDFs play a major role in the toxicity of Yusho oil. Furthermore, it was confirmed that 2,3,4,7,8-penta-CDF contributes 58% to the total TEQ, supporting the view that this compound is the principal causal agent in Yusho poisoning. It is noteworthy that the most toxic 2.3,7,8-tetra-CDD was newly discovered, although it contributes only 0.1% to the total TEQ. Based on our data, the smallest TEQ intake during the latent period was estimated to be 0.067 mg for Yusho patients. This value is about 60% of that previously reported, suggesting a lower minimum threshold level for the development of the toxic symptoms of Yusho.
12003454	Child molesters who target their own children have been described as low risk and not pedophilic. Men who had molested a daughter or stepdaughter (n = 82) were compared to 102 molesters whose only female victims were extrafamilial. Men who offended against their own daughters had less deviant sexual age preferences and were less likely to commit new violent and sexual offenses. However, the father-daughter molesters exhibited an average absolute phallometric preference for prepubertal children and had a violent recidivism rate of 22% in a follow-up of less than 5 years. Actuarial risk assessment instruments (the Violence Risk Appraisal Guide and the Sex Offender Risk Appraisal Guide; V. L. Quinsey, G. T. Harris, M. E. Rice, and C. A. Cormier, 1998) worked as well for intrafamilial child molesters as for other sex offenders.
12003662	To evaluate the reproducibility of, and to compare and calibrate, diet measures by the Northern Sweden 84-item food-frequency questionnaire (FFQ) with measures from 24-hour diet recalls (24-HDR). Randomly selected respondents from the EPIC (diet-cancer) and MONICA (diet-cardiovascular disease) study cohort in Northern Sweden were invited to answer the FFQ twice over a one-year interval (FFQ1 and FFQ2), and to complete ten 24-hour recalls (reference method) in the months between. Plasma beta-carotene concentrations were determined from a subset of 47 participants. Västerbotten and Norrbotten, Northern Sweden. Ninety-six men and 99 women, who completed the study. The reproducibility of the FFQ was high in terms of both mean energy and nutrient intakes and relative ranking of participants by intake levels (median Pearson correlation of 0.68). Moderately higher food intake frequencies were recorded by FFQ1 compared with 24-hour recalls for dairy products, bread/cereals, vegetables, fruits and potato/rice/pasta, whereas meat, fish, sweet snacks and alcoholic beverage intakes were lower. The median Spearman coefficient of correlation between FFQ1 and the average of ten 24-HDR measurements was 0.50. Daily energy and nutrient intakes were similar for FFQ1 and 24-HDR measurements, except for fibre, vitamin C, beta-carotene and retinol (FFQ1>24-HDR) and sucrose and cholesterol Pearson coefficients of correlation between FFQ1 and 24-HDR corrected for attenuation due to residual day-to-day variation in the 24-HDR measurements ranged from 0.36 to 0.79 (median 0.54). Adjustment for energy had only very moderate effects on the correlation estimates. Calibration coefficients estimated by linear regression of the 24-HDR on the FFQ1 measurements varied between 0.30 and 0.59 for all nutrients except alcohol, which had calibration coefficients close to 1.0. These low calibration coefficients indicate that relative risk estimates corresponding to an absolute difference in dietary intake levels measured by the FFQ will generally be biased towards 1.0. Plasma beta-carotene levels had a Pearson coefficient of correlation of 0.47 with the 24-HDR measurements, and of 0.23 with FFQ1 measurements. The Northern Sweden FFQ measurements have good reproducibility and an estimated level of validity similar to that of FFQ measurements in other prospective cohort studies. The results from this study will form the basis for the correction of attenuation and regression dilution biases in relative risk estimates, in future studies relating FFQ measurements to disease outcomes.
12005050	Momilactone A, a major rice diterpene phytoalexin, could be synthesized by dehydrogenation at the 3-position of 3beta-hydroxy-9beta-pimara-7,15-dien-19,6beta-olide in rice leaves. The presence of 3beta-hydroxy-9beta-pimara-7,15-dien-19,6beta-olide in UV-irradiated rice leaves was confirmed by comparing the mass spectra and retention times after a GC/MS analysis of the natural and synthetic compounds. The soluble protein fraction from UV-irradiated rice leaves showed dehydrogenase activity to convert 3beta-hydroxy-9beta-pimara-7,15-dien-19,6beta-olide into momilactone A. The enzyme required NAD+ or NADP+ as a hydrogen acceptor. The optimum pH for the reaction was 8. The Km value to 3beta-hydroxy-9beta-pimara-7,15-dien-19,6beta-olide was 36 microM when NAD+ was supplied as a cofactor at a concentration of 1 mM. 3fl-Hydroxy-9beta-pimara-7,15-dien-19,6beta-olide and its dehydrogenase activity were induced in a time-dependent manner by UV irradiation.
12006626	The molecular basis of microtubule nucleation is still not known in higher plant cells. This process is better understood in yeast and animals cells. In the yeast spindle pole body and the centrosome in animal cells, gamma-tubulin small complexes and gamma-tubulin ring complexes, respectively, nucleate all microtubules. In addition to gamma-tubulin, Spc98p or its homologues plays an essential role. We report here the characterization of rice and Arabidopsis homologues of SPC98. Spc98p colocalizes with gamma-tubulin at the nuclear surface where microtubules are nucleated on isolated tobacco nuclei and in living cells. AtSpc98p-GFP also localizes at the cell cortex. Spc98p is not associated with gamma-tubulin along microtubules. These data suggest that multiple microtubule-nucleating sites are active in plant cells. Microtubule nucleation involving Spc98p-containing gamma-tubulin complexes could then be conserved among all eukaryotes, despite differences in structure and spatial distribution of microtubule organizing centers.
1200726	One hundred six massively obese patients, who each lost at least 45 kg, were treated as outpatients with the rice/reduction diet, exercise, and motivational enhancement under daily supervision. Average weight loss was 63.9 kg. Forty-three patients achieved normal weight. Men lost weight at a greater rate than women. Concomitant with weight reduction, there were significant decrements in blood pressure; fasting and two-hour postprandial blood glucose, serum triglyceride, and serum uric acid levels, and heart-chest ratio as evidenced on chest x-ray film. Electrocardiographic and retinal venous changes improved. Serum cholesterol level did not change significantly. This study demonstrates that massively obese persons can achieve marked weight reduction, even normalization of weight, without hospitalization, surgery, or pharmacologic intervention. Accompanying cardiovascular risk factors show great decrements concomitant with weight loss.
12007664	Laccase-like activity was detected in melanin-producing strains of Sinorhizobium meliloti mainly in cells at the stationary growth phase when copper was added to the medium. The laccase showed both syringaldazine and ABTS (2,2'-azino-bis-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) oxidase activities and was activated by the addition of 1.7 mM sodium dodecyl sulfate. Activity was totally inhibited by the addition of 1.0 mM EDTA, suggesting that the enzyme is a metal-dependent one. The enzyme was found to be cytosolic having an optimum pH of 5.0, an estimated molecular mass of 95 kDa and a K(m) of 4 microM for syringaldazine. Both laccase and tyrosinase activities were detected in melanin-producing S. meliloti strains. Plant growth-promoting (PGP) effect in rice by a laccase-producing S. meliloti strain when co-inoculated with Azospirillum brasilense Cd was observed. PGP effect by co-inoculation significantly increased plant yield compared to A. brasilense by itself. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report on laccase production in rhizobia and cooperation between Azospirillum and Sinorhizobium in rice.
12009078	Cases of food-dependent exercise-induced anaphylaxis (FEA) caused by buckwheat have been rare. Clinical, laboratory, and autopsy findings are present on an 8-year old girl with FEA caused by Japanese buckwheat. The patient consumed buckwheat noodles called "zaru soba" and immediately thereafter swam vigorously. Approximately 30 minutes later, she complained of abdominal pain, vomiting, coughing, and chest discomfort. Another ten minutes later her consciousness level deteriorated and she experienced cardiorespiratory arrest. The heart beat was restored and she was admitted to the hospital. She never regained consciousness and expired after another arrest 13 days later. Her IgE level was high (2,840 IU/ml) and the IgE-radioallergosorbent test (RAST) score was 2 for soybeans, 3 for buckwheat, 2 for rice, and 3 for wheat. An exaggerated hematemesis that occurred immediately after hospital admission indicated an inflammatory condition of the digestive tract that was caused by buckwheat. Marked ulceration accompanied with hemorrhage and necrosis was noted at the ileum. Extensive hemorrhage involving the endotracheal pulmonary field and lymphocyte infiltration of the alveolar space likely appeared after the inflammation. The analysis of buckwheat-specific IgE antibody by immunoblotting showed 7 bands that reacted with the IgE of the patient's serum, 4 bands: 16, 20, 24, and 58 kDa, were specific to the patient as compared to subjects not allergic to buckwheat. A first case of fatal FEA by buckwheat is reported with reference to specific IgE.
12009195	Pesticides contained in rainwater were investigated in June and July 2001 in Yokohama. Although there were few farms and rice paddies near the sampling point, insecticides (fenitrothion and dichlorvos) and fungicides (chlorothalonil and futhalide) were detected by GC-MS and GC-FPD analysis. The maximum concentrations of dichlorvos and fenitrothion were 0.22 microg/L and 0.15 microg/L, respectively. Chronic tests with Daphnia magna were then conducted on two rainwater samples. Test solutions for these chronic tests were prepared by solid-phase extraction. In the case of the rainwater sampled on 25 July, the survival rate of D. magna was 100% after 21 days and no differences were found between the control and sample with regard to the average total number of live offspring produced per parent animal. However, a similar test with rainwater sampled on 14-15 June showed a marked toxic effect, since all the test animals were dead within 2 days. It is concluded that rainwater containing pesticides is an important ecological factor for freshwater plankton.
12009992	The growth of rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. M202) seedling radicles, initially 10 +/- 1 mm long, was linear for the 96 h it took them to grow to 150 mm at 25 degrees C. Exposure to 5 degrees C for 24 h reduced the rate of growth by about 50%, and longer exposures caused a progressive reduction in growth. Initial radicle length significantly affected chilling sensitivity: with 2 days at 5 degrees C inhibiting growth at 25 degrees C by 23% for 1-mm radicles, 63% for 10-mm radicles, and 87% for 40-mm radicles. Heat shocks of 35 degrees C for 4 min, 40 degrees C for 3 min, 45 degrees C for 2 min, or 50 degrees C for 1 min, prior to chilling, reduced the 75% inhibition of radicle growth caused by 2 days at 5 degrees C to 34%, 25%, 14%, and 13%, respectively. The length of exposure that conferred chilling tolerance increased from less than 2 min for 50 degrees C to over 8 min for 35 degrees C. This increase in effective treatment duration was accompanied by a reduction in the maximum induced chilling tolerance. Practical application of heat-shock treatments to increase the chilling tolerance of rice seedlings may sacrifice a small reduction in maximum chilling tolerance at the lower inductive temperatures for a larger margin of safety in their application.
12010001	The aim of the present work was to specify the influence of the polymerization degree on the color stability of anthocyanins using model solutions under higher thermal conditions simulating rapid food aging. Results showed that an increase in polymeric degree improves the color stability of oenin. Solutions containing a catechin tetramer, purified from brown rice, displayed a remarkable stability. Flavanols as monomers, (+)-catechin and (-)-epicatechin, appeared to decrease stability with the formation of a xanthylium salt leading to yellowish solutions. For the dimers, procyanidin B2 and B3, different behaviors on red color stability have been observed corresponding to their different susceptibility to cleavage upon heating. In the presence of the trimeric procyanidin C2, the red color appeared more stable. However, the HPLC chromatograms showed a decrease in the amplitude of the peaks of oenin and procyanidin C2. Concomitantly, a new peak appeared with a maximal absorption in the red region. This newly formed pigment probably came from the condensation of oenin and procyanidin C2.
12010475	The ability to avoid the ethanol-induced injury was evaluated in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and oat (Avena sativa L.) coleoptiles. The growth of the rice and oat coleoptiles was inhibited by ethanol exogenously applied at concentrations greater than 200 and 30 mM, respectively. At 300 mM ethanol, oat coleoptiles were brown and flaccid but rice coleoptiles did not show any visible symptoms of toxicity. The acetaldehyde level in rice and oat coleoptiles was increased by exogenously applied ethanol and the increases were greater in oat than in rice coleoptiles under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. At 300 mM ethanol, the acetaldehyde concentrations in the rice and oat coleoptiles were 46 and 87 nmol g-1 FW under aerobic conditions, respectively, and 52 and 124 nmol g-1 FW under anaerobic conditions, respectively. The activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH; EC 1.1.1.1) in the direction of ethanol to acetaldehyde was greater in oat than in rice coleoptiles and ADH protein in oat coleoptiles was more induced by exogenously applied ethanol than that in rice coleoptiles. These results suggest that in vivo conversion rate of ethanol to acetaldehyde by ADH is lower in rice than oat coleoptiles, which may be one of the reasons that ethanol sensitivity of rice is much lower than that of oat coleoptiles. The great ability of rice to avoid the ethanol-induced injuries may contribute its anoxia tolerance when glycolysis and ethanolic fermentation replace the Krebs cycle as the main source of energy under anaerobic conditions.
12010478	The expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its inheritance were studied in transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants transformed with a synthetic green fluorescent protein gene [sgfp(S65T)] driven by either a rice actin promoter or a barley endosperm-specific d-hordein promoter. The gene encoding phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (bar), driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter and intron, was used as a selectable marker to identify transgenic tissues. Strong GFP expression driven by the rice actin promoter was observed in callus cells and in a variety of tissues of T0 plants transformed with the sgfp(S65T)-containing construct. GFP expression, driven by the rice actin promoter, was observed in 14 out of 17 independent regenerable transgenic callus lines; however, expression was gradually lost in T0 and later generation progeny of diploid lines. Stable GFP expression was observed in T2 progeny from only 6 out of the 14 (43%) independent GFP-expressing callus lines. Four of the 8 lines not expressing GFP in T2 progeny, lost GFP expression during T0 plant regeneration from calli; one lost GFP expression in the transition from the T0 to T1 generations and three lines were sterile. Similarly, expression of bar driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter was lost in T1 progeny; only 21 out of 26 (81%) independent lines were Basta-resistant. In contrast to actin-driven expression, GFP expression driven by the d-hordein promoter exhibited endosperm-specificity. All seven lines transformed with d-hordein-driven GFP (100%) expressed GFP in the T1 and T2 generations, regardless of ploidy levels, and expression segregated in a Mendelian fashion. We conclude that the sgfp(S65T) gene was successfully transformed into barley and that GFP expression driven by the d-hordein promoter was more stable in its inheritance pattern in T1 and T2 progeny than that driven by the rice actin promoter or the bar gene driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter.
12011089	The three-dimensional structure of rice nonspecific lipid transfer protein (nsLTP2) has been solved for the first time. The structure of nsLTP2 was obtained using 813 distance constraints, 30 hydrogen bond constraints, and 19 dihedral angle constraints. Fifteen of the 50 random simulated annealing structures satisfied all of the constraints and possessed good nonbonded contacts. The novel three-dimensional fold of rice nsLTP2 contains a triangular hydrophobic cavity formed by three prominent helices. The four disulfide bonds required for stabilization of the nsLTP2 structure show a different pattern of cysteine pairing compared with nsLTP1. The C terminus of the protein is very flexible and forms a cap over the hydrophobic cavity. Molecular modeling studies suggested that the hydrophobic cavity could accommodate large molecules with rigid structures, such as sterols. The positively charged residues on the molecular surface of nsLTP2 are structurally similar to other plant defense proteins.
12011339	At least two 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase genes (ACS) are implicated in the submergence response of rice (Oryza sativa). Previously, the OS-ACS5 gene has been shown to be induced during short- as well as long-term complete submergence of seedlings and to be controlled by a balance of gibberellin and abscisic acid in both lowland and deepwater rice. This study demonstrates that OS-ACS5 mRNA is localized in specific tissues and cells both during normal development and in response to complete submergence. The temporal and spatial regulation of OS-ACS5 expression is presented by in situ hybridization and histochemical analysis of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity in transgenic rice carrying an OS-ACS5-gus fusion. Whole-mount in situ hybridization revealed that in air-grown rice seedlings, OS-ACS5 was expressed at a low level in the shoot apex, meristems, leaf, and adventitious root primordia, and in vascular tissues of nonelongated stems and leaf sheaths. In response to complete submergence, the expression in vascular bundles of young stems and leaf sheaths was strongly induced. The results of histochemical GUS assays were consistent with those found by whole-mount in situ hybridization. Our findings suggest that OS-ACS5 plays a role in vegetative growth of rice under normal conditions and is also recruited for enhanced growth upon complete submergence. The possible implication of OS-ACS5 in root-shoot communication during submergence stress and its putative role in aerenchyma formation upon low-oxygen stress are discussed.
12011358	Reversibly glycosylated polypeptides (RGPs) have been implicated in polysaccharide biosynthesis. In plants, these proteins may function, for example, in cell wall synthesis and/or in synthesis of starch. We have isolated wheat (Triticum aestivum) and rice (Oryza sativa) Rgp cDNA clones to study the function of RGPs. Sequence comparisons showed the existence of two classes of RGP proteins, designated RGP1 and RGP2. Glucosylation activity of RGP1 and RGP2 from wheat and rice was studied. After separate expression of Rgp1 and Rgp2 in Escherichia coli or yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), only RGP1 showed self-glucosylation. In Superose 12 fractions from wheat endosperm extract, a polypeptide with a molecular mass of about 40 kD is glucosylated by UDP-glucose. Transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants, overexpressing either wheat Rgp1 or Rgp2, were generated. Subsequent glucosylation assays revealed that in RGP1-containing tobacco extracts as well as in RGP2-containing tobacco extracts UDP-glucose is incorporated, indicating that an RGP2-containing complex is active. Gel filtration experiments with wheat endosperm extracts and extracts from transgenic tobacco plants, overexpressing either wheat Rgp1 or Rgp2, showed the presence of RGP1 and RGP2 in high-molecular mass complexes. Yeast two-hybrid studies indicated that RGP1 and RGP2 form homo- and heterodimers. Screening of a cDNA library using the yeast two-hybrid system and purification of the complex by an antibody affinity column did not reveal the presence of other proteins in the RGP complexes. Taken together, these results suggest the presence of active RGP1 and RGP2 homo- and heteromultimers in wheat endosperm.
12012245	The recent finding of uncoupling proteins (UCPs) in plants has demonstrated that plant mitochondria contain at least two distinct types of potential heat-generating protein, i.e. uncoupling proteins (UCPs) and alternative oxidases. In this study, we isolated and characterized two rice genes encoding UCPs with the aim of improving cold tolerance of rice through the modification of UCP expression. The two rice nuclear genes, OsUCP1 and OsUCP2, appeared to encode functional UCPs, as far as the amino acid sequences of the gene products showed. However, our study revealed that the processing of the pre-mRNAs of both genes was defective. The defects in the pre-mRNA processing resulted in multiple abnormal forms of the transcripts, whose translation products seemed not to retain normal UCP activities. No OsUCP cDNA clones corresponding to the normal transcripts were detected in our study. A northern analysis, on the other hand, revealed that neither of the OsUCP genes exhibited cold-enhanced expression, whereas the gene expression for an alternative oxidase was strikingly enhanced in cold-treated leaves of rice. Our present data thus indicate that rice leaves, placed in cold environments, do not express functional UCPs.
1201284	The ultrastructure and respiratory activity of mitochondria in rice coleoptile grown in the presence and in the absence of an inibitor of mitochondrial protein synthesis (chloramphenicol) have been studied. It is shown that during the first 48 h of germination a rapid development of mitochondrial cristae takes place without notable influence of chloramphenicol on biogenesis of mitochondria. But the presence of the inhibitor has a significant effect in the subsequent period (48-144 h): a gradual and almost complete reduction of mitochondrial cristae is observed. These unusual "noncristate" mitochondria, although greatly lacking cytochrome oxidase, have a high respiratory activity. The respiration of "noncristate" mitochondria is resistant to KCN. It is supposed that chloramphenicol-induced rice coleoptile can be used as a new convenient object for studies of the nature of alternative oxidase as well as the biogenesis of mitochondria with cyanide-insensitive respiration.
12012955	A study on malaria transmission based on samples of mosquitoes caught on human subjects was conducted from February to August 1995 in the rice growing area of Kafine, a village located in the Niakaramandougou district of northern Côte d'Ivoire. The village is surrounded by 117,500 acres of rice fields. Irrigation is sub-permanent in the rice field and harvests number two a year. During the 6 months of the study, 12.353 mosquitoes were caught. The average biting rate was 118.8 bites per man per night (b/m/n). Mansonia, Culex and Aedes represented only 17.5% of the total number of mosquitoes caught. Anopheles accounted for 82.5% of the number of anthropophilic mosquitoes. Anopheles gambiae s.s. represented 83.7% of the total Anopheles species. As a whole, the average biting rate recorded for the Anopheles was 98 b/m/n. The average biting rate of An. gambiae was 90.4 b/m/n. The highest rate (121.5 b/m/n) was recorded in April. During the dry and rainy season, the indoor biting cycle per hour of An. gambiae s.s. was studied from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. In both seasons, a marked biting activity was noticed between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. The average annual parity rate reached 40.2% but it ranged from 59.8% (n = 82) in February to 19% (n = 63) in May. The mean sporozoitic index of An. gambiae throughout the study period was 1.1% (14 positive salivary glands/1.251 dissected). The index ranged from 0 in April, May and June to 6.2 (n = 192) in July. The rate did not vary with rainfall but with the different stages of rice growing. The non-synchronisation of agricultural practises for each growing cycle seemed to be a conclusive factor in the transmission of malaria in this locality. Malaria transmission at Kafine can be characterised by 3 main elements: transmission is intensive with an estimated inoculation rate of 1 ib/m/n; transmission is more related to double phase rice cultivation (regardless of synchronisation on plots) than to rainfall; transmission shows particular variations linked to rice cultivation cycles with an increase during periods of ripeness and harvest. The nuisance caused by higher mosquito density has brought people to comply with use of pyrethroid impregnated bed nets advocated for wide use by the National Malaria Control Program.
12014482	Fusarium graminearum is the predominant pathogen causing fusarium head blight of cereals in North America. Fifteen Canadian isolates of Fusarium graminearum were highly diverse in terms of vegetative compatibility grouping (VCG) and varied for production of ergosterol and mycotoxin production in rice culture. Aggressiveness was assessed by scoring the disease severity incited in wheat spikes by each isolate. Two inoculation methods, single-floret injection and spray of entire spikes, were used to screen 4 wheat varieties for reaction to the F. graminearum isolates. All isolates were of broadly similar aggressiveness, with disease severity ranging from 17.2 to 39.1 for single floret injection, and 39.1 to 69.0 for spray inoculation. Disease severity, ergosterol production, and mycotoxin development were not correlated. Using nitrate non-utilizing mutants the 15 isolates were grouped into 14 VCGs. Deoxynivalenol (DON) was produced by all isolates in rice culture, at levels between 0.2 and 249 ppm. 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol was produced by 14 of the 15 isolates at levels between 0.4 and 44.6 ppm. These results reveal a high level of diversity for several characteristics among F. graminearum isolates from Canada.
12016989	In order to study the effect of protein, fat and dietary fiber on glycemic index(GI) of mixed food, the response of blood glucose and plasma insulin to nine diets with different components of food were tested by using glucose oxidase and radioimmunoassay. Glycemic index of 9 mixed foods show as follows, rice: 83.2 +/- 3.1, rice + stir fry pork: 72.0 +/- 14.0, rice + stir fry pork and celery: 57.1 +/- 11.2, rice + stir fry garlic sprout: 57.9 +/- 7.8, rice + stir fry garlic sprout and eggs: 62.8 +/- 16.7, steamed bread: 80.1 +/- 22.5, steamed bread + butter: 68.0 +/- 16.3, and steamed bread + beef: 49.4 +/- 22.8. Protein(P, beta 1 = -0.696, P < 0.01) and dietary fiber(Fi, beta 2 = -7.364, P < 0.01) can reduce the blood glucose response and were significantly related to GI. Fat also can inhibit the increment of blood glucose, but there is no significant relation with GI. When the co-ingestion of protein with carbohydrate, the serum insulin response increased greatly and the glycemic response reduced. The addition of fat can reduce the glycemic response without change in serum insulin. Dietary fiber can reduce the serum insulin response and inhibit the glycemic response. Protein and dietary fiber of mixed food could markedly affect the glycemic index of foods and reduced the blood glucose response.
12017987	Rice bran, as a coproduct of the rice milling industry, is yet to be efficiently utilized for human consumption. Despite its excellent nutrition, its hypoallergenicity and recently claimed nutraceutical properties, it is mainly utilized for animal feed or simply discharged. It is of interest to incorporate this healthy ingredient back into our diet. In these studies, rice bran was processed by drum-drying and pin-milling. This processing step increased hydration capacity and removed grittiness by decreasing mean particle size from 444 to 72 microns and producing a desirable monomodal size distribution. There are no reported studies addressing differences in rice bran composition in food applications and specifically their effect on bread quality. Thus, we were interested in examining the functional properties of bread made with processed full-fat (FFRB) and defatted (DFRB) bran from three cultivars (long, medium and short grain rice) and to compare them to a control. For 10% and 20% replacements of wheat flour, respectively, loaf volume increased 2% for FFRB and decreased 6% for DFRB and decreased by 6% for FFRB and 17% for DFRB. Loaf volume was highest with medium rice bran and this was attributed to its lowest fiber content and highest starch content among three varieties. Texture profile analysis showed no significant differences as far as cohesiveness and springiness, but bread hardness, gumminess and chewiness increased with increased levels of rice bran and was higher for DFRB bread than for FFRB. Measurements of texture determined that there was no detrimental effect in adding 10% FFRB to the bread and a very slight hardening of the loaves with the 20% FFRB, when compared to the control. It was found that FFRB gave better textural characteristics than DFRB overall and differences amongst different rice bran varieties were not significant.
12018251	The enzymatic digestibility of ammonia fiber explosion (AFEX)-treated rice straw was modeled by statistically correlating the variability of samples to differences in treatment using several different analytical techniques. Lignin content and crystallinity index of cellulose affect enzymatic hydrolysis the most. X-ray diffraction was used to measure the crystallinity index (CrI), while fluorescence and diffuse reflectance infrared (DRIFT) spectroscopy measured the lignin content of the samples. Multivariate analysis was applied to correlate the enzymatic hydrolysis results of the various samples with X-ray diffraction and spectroscopic data. Principal component analysis (PCA) and multilinear regression (MLR) techniques did not accurately predict the digestibility of the rice straw samples. The best correlation (R value of 0.775) was found between the treatment conditions of the AFEX process and the concentration of xylose at 24 h after enzymatic hydrolysis.
12018312	By applying the Arkenol process using highly concentrated sulfuric acid, various biomass feedstocks, including cedar tree, rice straw, newspaper, and bagasse, were successfully processed and converted into glucose and xylose for fermentation usage in a flash fermentation reactor in which the performance of National Renewable Energy Laboratory's patented rec-Zymomonas mobilis 31821 (pZB5) after immobilization was investigated. The immobilization medium is a photocrosslinked resin made from polyethylene glycols or polypropylene glycols. Recombinant or rec-Z. mobilis used in the study has been shown to efficiently ferment glucose and xylose at a relatively high concentration (12-15%), that is a typical hydrolysate produced from cellulosic feedstocks. The application of immobilized rec-Z. mobilis and flash fermentation technology, together with concentrated acid technology producing a high concentration sugar solution, promises to speed the development of the cellulose-to-ethanol industry.
12018851	Twenty primers of 20 mer referred to universal rice primer (URP) were developed from a repetitive sequence of rice genome. URP-PCR protocol employed stringent PCR with high annealing temperature throughout the thermo-cycling reaction, giving high reproducibility. Under the PCR condition, each single URP primer produced characteristic fingerprints from diverse genomes containing 14 plants, 7 animals and 6 microbes, indicating its universal applicability. The generality of URP-PCR was demonstrated by applying it to 15 cultivars from five rice species, 23 isolates in four Alternaria species producing host-specific toxins on different host plants and 12 bacterial strains including Escherichia coli, Salmonella spp., and Blucella abortus. PCR approach using URP primers will be useful for studying DNA diversity of most eukaryotic or prokaryotic genomes, especially at inter- and intraspecies levels.
12019245	A single chromosome of the grass species Festuca pratensis has been introgressed into Lolium perenne to produce a diploid monosomic substitution line 2n = 2x = 14. In this line recombination occurs throughout the length of the F. pratensis/L. perenne bivalent. The F. pratensis chromosome and recombinants between it and its L. perenne homeologue can be visualized using genomic in situ hybridization (GISH). GISH junctions represent the physical locations of sites of recombination, enabling a range of recombinant chromosomes to be used for physical mapping of the introgressed F. pratensis chromosome. The physical map, in conjunction with a genetic map composed of 104 F. pratensis-specific amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs), demonstrated: (1) the first large-scale analysis of the physical distribution of AFLPs; (2) variation in the relationship between genetic and physical distance from one part of the F. pratensis chromosome to another (e.g., variation was observed between and within chromosome arms); (3) that nucleolar organizer regions (NORs) and centromeres greatly reduce recombination; (4) that coding sequences are present close to the centromere and NORs in areas of low recombination in plant species with large genomes; and (5) apparent complete synteny between the F. pratensis chromosome and rice chromosome 1.
12019452	To extend 8 BAC contigs, which were previously located in the 56.1-68 cM region of the chromosome 4 of the Oryza sativa indica GuangLuAi4, 14 pairs of primers were designed according to the terminal sequences of the existing seed BACs and were deliberately divided into 3 groups. With the 3 groups of primer mixtures, 233 pools of BAC DNA that represent 22 368 BAC clones from O.sativa indica GuangLuAi4 genomic library were screened. 65 positive clones corresponding to the 8 contigs were isolated and 29 clones of them were confirmed to be extended to the seed BACs by end-sequencing and fingerprinting. The protocol greatly enhanced the efficiency of the contig extension and was also superior for its specificity, sensitivity and reusability to the colony in situ hybridization which is a conventional method employed in contig extension and physical map construction.
12019968	A rigorous analysis of the kinetic method is carried out using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory of microcanonical statistical unimolecular dissociation rates. The model employs a kinetics treatment appropriate for metastable ion dissociation. Proton-bound alkoxide dimer anions are used as model systems, with realistic vibrational and rotational parameters calculated by ab initio methods for the cluster ion and transition states leading to the competitive dissociation channels. The numerical simulations show that the kinetic method plots of ln(I2/I1) versus AAH are nearly linear but can exhibit significant curvature. The apparent entropy obtained in the extended kinetic method is not approximately equal to the thermodynamic entropy difference for dissociation, AAS(T), or for activation, deltadeltaS++(T), either at the effective temperature or at any fixed equilibrium temperature. Instead, the apparent entropy term can be related to the ratio of the microcanonical sum of states of the dissociation transition states for the kinetically selected internal energy of the dissociating ions.
12020000	Electroantennogram (EAG) recordings were made from the plaque organ receptors of the rice brown plant hopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål). The receptors of the distal plaque organ of both male and female hoppers responded to the air from above chopped rice plants, and those of females gave a larger response. Female hoppers, tested with 27 plant volatiles, gave dose-related responses to 16 of the compounds, including a range of green leaf volatiles. The aliphatic aldehydes hexanal and (E)-2-hexenal elicited a larger response than a range of green leaf alcohols. Of the remaining compounds, acetophenone, benzaldehyde, ethyl and methyl benzoate, and amyl and isoamyl acetate were among the most effective in eliciting responses. Receptor recovery times showed some variation between compounds. A comparison of the dose-related response of 16 compounds in paraffin oil and in pentane showed that considerably larger responses were recorded when the highly volatile solvent pentane was used.
12020029	The impact of snowdrop lectin (Galanthus nivalis agglutinin, GNA) expressed in transgenic sugarcane on life history parameters of Mexican rice borer [Eoreuma loftini (Dyar)] and sugarcane borer [Diatraea saccharalis (F.)] (both Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) was evaluated. In the laboratory, lyophilized sugarcane leaf sheath tissue was incorporated in a meridic diet resulting in a GNA concentration of 0.47% of total protein, and used for insect bioassays over two successive generations. Deleterious effects of GNA were not observed on survival, weight, and developmental periods of larvae and pupae, nor on adult fecundity and egg viability of D. saccharalis. Moreover, in the first generation, addition of transgenic sugarcane tissue to the diet enhanced larval growth in D. saccharalis resulting in higher larval and pupal weight compared with diet with nontransgenic sugarcane, but this effect was not observed in the second generation. In contrast, larval survival, percent adult emergence, and female fecundity of E. loftini were significantly reduced when fed transgenic sugarcane diet compared with nontransgenic sugarcane diet. In addition, a substantial reduction of female pupal weight of E. loftini was observed in the second generation. For both species, the only consistent effect of GNA in both generations was a reduction in adult female longevity. Life table parameters showed that GNA at the level found in the transgenic diet negatively affected development and reproduction of E. loftini, whereas it had a nil to positive effect on development and reproduction of D. saccharalis.
12020377	For most plant species, tolerance to many types of herbivory increases as plants age, but the applicability of this pattern to root herbivory has not been tested. Injury to roots of rice plants by larvae of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, causes severe reductions in yields in the United States. It is generally thought that young rice plants, because their root systems are smaller, are less tolerant than older plants of root feeding by L. oryzophilus. Field experiments were conducted to test this hypothesis. Plots of rice (4.7 to 6.5 m2) were established and subjected to natural infestations of L. oryzophilus larvae. A soil insecticide was applied to plots at different times during the tillering phase of rice in order to manipulate the timing of weevil infestation. The impact of these treatments (timings of insecticide applications) was assessed by comparing relationships between yield loss and larval pressure for each treatment using analysis of covariance. Yield losses ranged from 13% to over 40% in plots not treated with insecticide. Patterns of yield losses from plots treated with insecticide at different times were best explained by the hypothesis that yield loss is determined both by the age of plants infested and by the size of larvae infesting plants. Young plants appear to be less tolerant than older plants, and feeding by large larvae appears to be more deleterious than feeding by smaller larvae. Management practices that delay infestation of rice by L. oryzophilus until plants are older may be an important component of management programmes for this pest.
1202066
12021796	The initial moisture content, cultivation time, inoculum size and concentration of basal medium were optimized in solid state fermentation (SSF) for the production of xylanase by an Aspergillus niger mutant using statistical experimental designs. The cultivation time and concentration of basal medium were the most important factors affecting xylanase activity. An inoculum size of 5 x 10(5) spores/g, initial moisture content of 65%, cultivation time of 5 days and 10 times concentration of basal medium containing 50 times concentration of corn steep liquor were optimum for xylanase production in SSF. Under the optimized conditions, the activity and productivity of xylanase obtained after 5 days of fermentation were 5,071 IU/g of rice straw and 14,790 IU l(-1) h(-1), respectively. The xylanase activity predicted by a polynomial model was 5,484 IU/g of rice straw.
12021846	Through recent government- and industry-sponsored efforts, several forward and reverse genetic screening programs have emerged over the past few years to aid in the genetic dissection of gene function in maize. Despite a US maize crop valued at $18.4 billion last year (http://www.ncga.com/03world/main/US_crop_value_2000.html) and rich genetic history, maize has taken a back seat to Arabidopsis thaliana as the model genetic system for plants over the past decade. With a fully sequenced genome, short generation time and small size, studies of Arabidopsis have provided plant scientists with a molecular framework for hormonal, developmental and environmental signaling pathways in plants. As investigations into Arabidopsis continue, our capacity to engineer biochemical pathways and alter plant physiological responses will become increasingly sophisticated. Nevertheless, approximately 130 million years have passed since monocot and higher eudicot lineages diverged. Thus, our ability to engineer agronomically important monocot grasses such as maize, rice and wheat will become increasingly limited by our lack of understanding of the physiological and morphological differences that have evolved in the monocots and higher eudicots. The sophisticated transposon collections now being generated for maize are but one of several recent projects (http://www.nsf.gov/bio/pubs/awards/genome01.htm) to provide grass researchers with essential tools for genome analysis. Because grain crops are such a closely related group, it is hoped that many of the findings made in one grass will be directly applicable to understanding the biology of another. The goal of this review is to highlight the recent developments in maize transposon-based gene characterization programs and provide a critical examination of the advantages and disadvantages each system offers.
12021852	Sequencing of a contiguous 215-kb interval of Triticum monococcum showed the presence of five genes in the same order as in previously sequenced colinear barley and rice BACs. Gene 2 was in the same orientation in wheat and rice but inverted in barley. Gene density in this region was 1 gene per 43 kb and the ratio of physical to genetic distance was estimated to be 2,700 kb cM(-1). Twenty more-or-less intact retrotransposons were found in the intergenic regions, covering at least 70% of the sequenced region. The insertion times of 11 retrotransposons were less than 5 million years ago and were consistent with their nested structure. Five new families of retro-elements and the first full-length elements for two additional retrotransposon families were discovered in this region. Significantly higher values of GC content were observed for Triticeae BACs compared with rice BACs. Relative enrichment or depletion of certain dinucleotides was observed in the comparison of introns, exons and retrotransposons. A higher proportion of transitions in CG and CNG sites that are targets for cytosine methylation was observed in retrotransposons (76%) than in introns (37%). These results showed that the wheat genome is a complex mixture of different sequence elements, but with general patterns of content and interspersion that are similar to those seen in maize and barley.
12023735	Along the coastline of Tamil Nadu, five sites were chosen to assess the diversity of Pseudomonas populations isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) cultivated along a salinity gradient. One of these sites was under organic farming while the other four were under inorganic farming. A total of 256 Pseudomonas strains isolated from these five sites were analyzed using both phenotypic (substrate utilization patterns and antibiotic resistance assay) and genotypic (PCR-RFLP of 16S rDNA) characteristics. The results derived from this study indicate that soil salinity affects rhizosphere Pseudomonas populations. It was observed that increasing salinity led to decreasing diversity. Fluorescent pseudomonads were the dominant species found in the non-saline site, while in the saline sites they were replaced by salt-tolerant species, in particular Pseudomonas alcaligenes and P. pseudoalcaligenes. An interesting observation was the increase in diversity found in the saline site under organic farming. Organic farming was found to be capable of mitigating the harmful effects of saline stress to a large extent, and restoring the Pseudomonas diversity, thereby making it comparable with the diversity encountered in the non-saline site.
12024620
12024749	The objective of this study was to analyze aspects of the metabolism and bio-availability of fluoride after consumption of a sample of polished white rice containing 5.6 ppm fluoride ion. Up to 400 g of fluoridated rice was consumed by three volunteer adult subjects over specific time periods on two separate occasions. Saliva concentrations were elevated immediately and remained so 90 minutes following ingestion, among other indications. It was concluded that polished rice has the potential to be a useful vehicle for dietary fluoride transport.
12027369	Appetite measurements were performed in 109 Beninese children aged 18-30 months to develop a tool for appetite evaluation in young children in nutritional intervention programmes. Two test foods were identified as appropriate for these children: a maize porridge (aklui) and rice (riz-au-gras). Ad libitum intakes of the foods served after an overnight fast according to a standardized offering procedure were measured on 3 days. The children's habitual intakes were measured during 3 consecutive days not overlapping with the days when the test meals were provided. Energy intake from the test foods was comparable to breakfast energy intake which was 0.8-1.0 MJ, representing 21% of total daily energy intake. Energy intake from aklui was significantly correlated with daily intake (r=0.41, n=38, p<0.05) and with energy intake from breakfast (r=0.52, p<0.01). Correlations concerning riz-au-gras were less pronounced and non-significant. Reproducibility (as coefficient of variation) of the appetite test as calculated from the triplicate measurements was 40% for aklui and 25% for riz-au-gras. This reproducibility is better than that of the habitual breakfast intake (43-45%). In conclusion, the appetite test used in our studies can be considered as an appropriate tool in appetite evaluations.
12028418	The present study describes the detection and quantification of the Sarocladium oryzae metabolites, helvolic acid and cerulenin in extracts of rice grains collected from plants infected with sheath rot. It also describes the phytotoxicity of these metabolites on rice seedlings. Helvolic acid and cerulenin in sheath rot-infected rice grains were detected using thin layer chromatography (TLC) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analyses. On the TLC plates helvolic acid and cerulenin moved as brownish yellow spots and showed R(F) values of 0.61 and 0.49, respectively. A standard assay curve was developed on the basis of selective toxicity of helvolic acid towards Calvibacter michiganensis ATCC 2140 and cerulenin towards Candida albicans 1150. The amounts of helvolic acid and cerulenin on the basis of standard assay curve were 2.2 and 1.75 microg g(-1) of infected seeds. Treatment of IR 36 rice seedlings with metabolites induced chlorosis and reduced shoot length by 20%, root length by 30% and root number by 7% relative to control. Helvolic acid and cerulenin were detected in infected rice grains and these metabolites induced chlorosis and reduced the seed viability and seedling health of rice. Antimicrobial and phytotoxic metabolites, helvolic acid and cerulenin are present in infected grains and reduce the seed viability and seedling health. These metabolites may increase the pathogenic potential and survival of S. oryzae in rice seed by competing with other seed-borne fungi.
12028574	EL5, a rice gene responsive to N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor, encodes a RING-H2 finger protein with structural features common to the plant-specific ATL family. We show that the fusion protein of EL5 with maltose binding protein (MBP) was polyubiquitinated by incubation with ubiquitin, ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1), and the Ubc4/5 subfamily of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2). EL5 possesses the activity to catalyse the transfer of ubiquitin to the MBP moiety, and the RING-H2 finger motif of EL5 is necessary for this activity. Thus, we concluded that EL5 represents a ubiquitin ligase (E3). We also show that two rice E2s (OsUBC5a, OsUBC5b) of the Ubc4/5 subfamily function as E2 which catalyses EL5-mediated ubiquitination, and OsUBC5b was induced by elicitor, as well as EL5. These results strongly suggest that EL5 and OsUBC5b have roles in plant defense response through the turnover of protein(s) via the ubiquitin/proteasome system.
12029989	Serum total cholesterol levels were measured in a general population aged 40 years or older in Hisayama, Japan, and were compared among three cohorts, including 1,621 residents in 1961(1st cohort), 2,053 in 1974(2nd cohort) and 2,649 in 1988(3rd cohort). Dietary habits were determined by a direct interview in the randomly chosen study subjects in 1965, 1985 and 1994. Serum cholesterol levels greatly increased by approximately 30 mg/dl or more in males and females of all age groups from 1st to 2nd cohort, and further but less greatly increased by 20 mg/dl or less from 2nd to 3rd cohort. Prevalence of hypercholesterolemia (> or = 220 mg/dl) was more markedly increased nine-fold from 3% in 1961 to 28% in 1988 for males, and six-fold from 7% to 42% for females. During the follow-up period, lifestyle including dietary habits in Hisayama had been changed or westernized, namely more intake of animal fats and proteins and less intake of carbohydrate or rice without changes in total energy intake. Consequently, the frequency of hypercholesterolemia increased in recent years with more obesity and diabetes. Modifications of lifestyle are highly recommended for prevention of cardiovascular diseases.
12032317	A rice spotted leaf (lesion-mimic) gene, Spl7, was identified by map-based cloning. High-resolution mapping with cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence markers enabled us to define a genomic region of 3 kb as a candidate for Spl7. We found one ORF that showed high similarity to a heat stress transcription factor (HSF). Transgenic analysis verified the function of the candidate gene for Spl7: leaf spot development was suppressed in spl7 mutants with a wild-type Spl7 transgene. Thus, we conclude that Spl7 encodes the HSF protein. The transcript of spl7 was observed in mutant plants. The levels of mRNAs (Spl7 in wild type and spl7 in mutant) increased under heat stress. Sequence analysis revealed only one base substitution in the HSF DNA-binding domain of the mutant allele, causing a change from tryptophan to cysteine.
12033612	Genetic diversity among 49 Indian accessions of rice (Oryza sativa subsp. indica), including 29 landraces from Jeypore, 12 modern cultivars, and 8 traditional cultivars from Tamil Nadu, was investigated using AFLP markers. In total, nine primer combinations revealed 664 AFLPs, 408 of which were found to be polymorphic. The percentage of polymorphic AFLPs was approximately the same within the cultivars and landraces. Similar results were obtained when genetic diversity values were estimated using the Shannon-Weiner index of diversity. Genetic diversity was slightly higher in the modern cultivars than in the traditional cultivars from Tamil Nadu. Among the landraces from Jeypore, the lowland landraces showed the highest diversity. The present study showed that the process of breeding modern cultivars did not appear to cause significant genetic erosion in rice. Cluster analysis and the first component of principle component analysis (PCA) both showed a clear demarcation between the cultivars and landraces as separate groups, although the genetic distance between them was narrow. The modern cultivars were positioned between the landraces from Jeypore and the traditional cultivars from Tamil Nadu. The second component of PCA further separated medium and upland landraces from lowland landraces, with the lowland landraces found closest to the traditional and modern cultivars.
12033618	In the process of characterizing a rice wx deletion mutant, an AT-rich minisatellite sequence that consisted of units of approximately 80 bp was detected about 2.3 kb downstream of the wx gene. This AT-rich minisatellite was a multiple-copy element (1 x 10(3) to 2 x 10(3) copies per haploid genome) and interspersed in the rice genome. By BLAST homology search it was indicated that not only the tandem repeat but also both flanking sequences were conserved among copies. According to the characteristics of the termini (5'-CHH ... CTAG-3') and a target site preference for T, this AT-rich minisatellite accompanying the flanking sequences was classified into a novel transposon, Basho. The results of direct amplification of Basho showed that relatively large variation in size existed in the Basho family. We estimate the variation to be generated by not only alteration of the number of units in the minisatellite but also by duplications of larger blocks including the conserved flanking sequences caused by single-strand mispairing (SSM) at noncontiguous repeats. Because the AT-rich minisatellite contained in Basho possessed several motifs of the matrix attachment region (MAR) in its repeat unit, the functional role as MAR in the rice genome was discussed.
12033620	A mapping population of Paspalum simplex segregating for apomixis (asexual reproduction through seeds) was screened with AFLPs to find apomixis-linked markers. Four AFLPs linked to apomixis in coupling phase were found. Three of them did not show recombinants among the 87 individuals of the mapping population, whereas the other was more loosely linked. Integrating the AFLP data with those obtained previously with rice RFLP anchor markers, a map was drawn for the chromosome region of P. simplex encompassing apomixis. We cloned the three AFLPs tightly linked with apomixis into plasmid vectors and used them as probes to hybridize the restriction digested DNA of the mapping population. Two of them revealed RFLP bands linked to apomixis together with other alleles, whereas one was proven to belong to a hemizygous portion of the apomixis locus. The total picture resulting from AFLP and RFLP analyses was that a cluster of markers tightly linked with apomixis was detected in P simplex together with two other markers that were more loosely linked. These two markers enclosed a relatively large chromosome segment characterized by strong repression of recombination. The block of recombination may have caused sequence divergence and, therefore, hemizygosity of some regions belonging to the apomixis-controlling chromosome segment of P. simplex. The potential of developing an apomixis-specific sequence for screening large-fragment libraries for the physical isolation of the locus encompassing apomixis is discussed.
12033833	An in vitro digestion/Caco-2 model was used to compare iron bioavailability from 15 selected Fe-dense and normal genotypes of unpolished rice from the International Rice Research Institute. Iron uptake was determined using Caco-2 cell ferritin formation in response to exposure to a digest of the cooked rice. Iron bioavailabilities from all rice genotypes were ranked as a percent relative to a control variety (Nishiki). Iron concentration in the rice samples ranged from 14 to 39 microg/g. No correlation was observed between Fe uptake and grain-Fe concentration. Furthermore, phytic acid levels were not correlated with Fe bioavailability. Genotypes with low Fe bioavailability (Tong Lan Mo Mi, Zuchein, Heibao, and Xua Bue Nuo) were noticeably more brown to purple in color. The results suggest that certain unknown compounds related to rice grain color may be a major factor limiting Fe bioavailability from unpolished rice.
12033838	To extract fumonisin B1 (FB1) and fumonisin B2 (FB2) from Thai white rice flour, different solvent mixtures, temperatures, pH values, and addition of enzymes or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt (Na2EDTA) were examined. Three extractions with 0.1 M Na2EDTA achieved the highest recoveries. Initial recoveries of fumonisins added to white rice flour, cornstarch, cornmeal, and glucose varied with commodity. Fumonisins disappeared in Thai white rice flour after 12 h, but 55% remained in another white rice flour. With cornstarch 20-30% fumonisins remained after 24 h; only 43% of 14C-labeled FB1 materials extracted from cornstarch was eluted with methanol from an immunoaffinity column. Fumonisins were stable in cornmeal for 24 h but only approximately 50% remained after 30 days. With glucose, 25% of FB1 and FB2 remained 24 h after addition; N-(1-deoxy-D-fructos-1-yl)FB(1) andN-(carboxymethyl)FB(1) were detected in lower amounts than residual FB(1) after 3 months.
12034492	We identified three genes (HOS58, HOS59 and HOS66) of rice (Oryza sativa), which encode predicted proteins with the KNOX family class 2 homeodomain. These proteins contain three conserved domains, the KNOX domain, ELK domain and homeodomain, from an N-terminus to a C-terminus. In addition to similarity of predicted amino acid sequences, these genes showed a similar exon/intron structure. cDNA cloning and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses of these genes indicated tissue-specific expression of alternative transcripts. The expression of the longer mRNAs of HOS58 (HOS58L) and HOS59L was detected in all organs examined such as roots, leaf blades, leaf sheaths, flowers and calli, whereas the shorter mRNAs of HOS58 (HOS58S) and HOS59S were expressed in leaf blades, leaf sheaths and flowers. The expression of HOS66L was detected in roots, leaf blades, leaf sheaths and flowers, whereas the expression of HOS66S was detected in roots and flowers. The alternative transcripts of HOS66 arose by use of alternative transcription start sites. The longer transcripts contained an exon 1 which encodes an alanine/glycine-rich region, whereas the shorter ones lacked it. These results suggest that the expression of the alternative transcripts is organ-specific, and their products have different degrees of abilities for activation or repression of transcription.
12034818	BLASTX alignment between 189.5 Mb of rice genomic sequence and translated Arabidopsis thaliana annotated coding sequences (CDS) identified 60 syntenic regions involving 4-22 rice orthologs covering < or =3.2 cM (centiMorgan). Most regions are <3 cM in length. A detailed and updated version of a table representing these regions is available on our web site. Thirty-five rice loci match two distinct A.thaliana loci, as expected from the duplicated nature of the A.thaliana genome. One A.thaliana locus matches two distinct rice regions, suggesting that rice chromosomal sequence duplications exist. A high level of rearrangement characterizing the 60 syntenic regions illustrates the ancient nature of the speciation between A.thaliana and rice. The apparent reduced level of microcollinearity implies the dispersion to new genomic locations, via transposon activity, of single or small clusters of genes in the rice genome, which represents a significant additional effector of plant genome evolution.
12036102	A novel gene for alternative oxidase (AOX) was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) and characterized. The deduced amino acid sequence of the novel AOX gene contains features that are conserved among other AOXs. This AOX gene was designated AOX1c based on a phylogenetic analysis of the AOX genes. Northern hybridization analyses revealed that AOX1c and AOX1a/AOX1b transcripts accumulated differently in various rice organs and rice seedlings under low temperature conditions. AOX1c mRNA was mainly present in young leaves under constant light, mature leaves and panicles after heading, but it was not detected in young etiolated leaves and young roots of seedlings or young panicles. On the other hand, the mRNAs of the rice AOX1a and AOX1b genes were mainly present in young roots and mature leaves. Under low temperature conditions, the steady-state mRNA levels of the rice AOX1a and AOX1b genes clearly increased with time but the rice AOX1c gene was apparently not responsive to low temperature. The rice AOX gene family and differences in their regulation are discussed.
12036277	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. In the related bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris, the rpfF gene is involved in production of a diffusible extracellular factor (DSF) that positively regulates synthesis of virulence-associated functions like extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) and extracellular enzymes. Transposon insertions in the rpfF homolog of X. oryzae pv. oryzae are deficient for virulence and production of a DSF but are proficient for EPS and extracellular enzyme production. The rpfF X. oryzae pv. oryzae mutants exhibit an unusual tetracycline susceptibility phenotype in which exogenous iron supplementation is required for phenotypic expression of a tetracycline resistance determinant that is encoded on an introduced plasmid. The rpfF X. oryzae pv. oryzae mutants also overproduce one or more siderophores and exhibit a growth deficiency under low iron conditions as well as in the presence of reducing agents that are expected to promote the conversion of Fe+3 to Fe+2. Exogenous iron supplementation promotes migration of rpfF X. oryzae pv. oryzae mutants in rice leaves. The results suggest that rpfF may be involved in controlling an iron-uptake system of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and that an inability to cope with the conditions of low iron availability in the host may be the reason for the virulence deficiency of the rpfF X. oryzae pv. oryzae mutants.
12038489	Solar UV degrades dissolved organic carbon photolytically so that they can readily be taken up by bacterioplankton. On the other hand solar UV radiation inhibits bacterioplankton activity. Bacterioplankton productivity is far greater than previously thought and is comparable to phytoplankton primary productivity. According to the "microbial loop hypothesis," bacterioplankton is seen in the center of a food web, having a similar function to phytoplankton and protists. The penetration of UV and PAR into the water column can be measured. Marine waters show large temporal and regional differences in their concentrations of dissolved and particulate absorbing substances. A network of dosimeters (ELDONET) has been installed in Europe ranging from Abisko in Northern Sweden to Gran Canaria. Cyanobacteria are capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen which is then made available to higher plants. The agricultural potential of cyanobacteria has been recognized as a biological fertilizer for wet soils such as in rice paddies. UV-B is known to impair processes such as growth, survival, pigmentation, motility, as well as the enzymes of nitrogen metabolism and CO2 fixation. The marine phytoplankton represents the single most important ecosystem on our planet and produces about the same biomass as all terrestrial ecosystems taken together. It is the base of the aquatic food chain and any changes in the size and composition of phytoplankton communities will directly affect food production for humans from marine sources. Another important role of marine phytoplankton is to serve as a sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide. Recent investigations have shown a large sensitivity of most phytoplankton organisms toward solar short-wavelength ultraviolet radiation (UV-B); even at ambient levels of UV-B radiation many organisms seem to be under UV stress. Because of their requirement for solar energy, the phytoplankton dwell in the top layers of the water column. In this near-surface position phytoplankton will be exposed to solar ultraviolet radiation. This radiation has been shown to affect growth, photosynthesis, nitrogen incorporation and enzyme activity. Other targets of solar UV irradiation are proteins and pigments involved in photosynthesis. Whether or not screening pigments can be induced in phytoplankton to effectively shield the organisms from excessive UV irradiation needs to be determined. Macroalgae show a distinct pattern of vertical distribution in their habitat. They have developed mechanisms to regulate their photosynthetic activity to adapt to the changing light regime and protect themselves from excessive radiation. A broad survey was carried out to understand photosynthesis in aquatic ecosystems and the different adaptation strategies to solar radiation of ecologically important species of green, red and brown algae from the North Sea, Baltic Sea, Mediterranean, Atlantic, polar and tropical oceans. Photoinhibition was quantified by oxygen exchange and by PAM (pulse amplitude modulated) fluorescence measurements based on transient changes of chlorophyll fluorescence.
12039768	Comparisons of the activities and diversities of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in the root environment of different cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.) indicated marked differences despite identical environmental conditions during growth. Gross nitrification rates obtained by the 15N dilution technique were significantly higher in a modern variety, IR63087-1-17, than in two traditional varieties. Phylogenetic analysis based on the ammonium monooxygenase gene (amoA) identified strains related to Nitrosospira multiformis and Nitrosomonas europaea as the predominant AOB in our experimental rice system. A method was developed to determine the abundance of AOB on root biofilm samples using fluorescently tagged oligonucleotide probes targeting 16S rRNA. The levels of abundance detected suggested an enrichment of AOB on rice roots. We identified 40 to 69% of AOB on roots of IR63087-1-17 as Nitrosomonas spp., while this subpopulation constituted 7 to 23% of AOB on roots of the other cultivars. These results were generally supported by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of the amoA gene and analysis of libraries of cloned amoA. In hydroponic culture, oxygen concentration profiles around secondary roots differed significantly among the tested rice varieties, of which IR63087-1-17 showed maximum leakage of oxygen. The results suggest that varietal differences in the composition and activity of root-associated AOB populations may result from microscale differences in O2 availability.
12040096	To better understand the molecular mechanisms of the photoperiodic regulation of rice, a short-day plant, we isolated 27 cDNAs that were differentially expressed in the photoperiod-insensitive se5 mutant from approximately 8,400 independent mRNA species by the use of a fluorescent differential display (FDD). For this screening, we isolated mRNAs at five different time points during the night and compared their expression patterns between se5 and the wild type. Of 27 cDNAs isolated, 12 showed diurnal expression patterns often associated with genes involved in the determination of the flowering time. In se5, expression of nine cDNAs was increased. Five of these cDNAs were up-regulated under SD, suggesting that they may promote flowering under SD. They included genes encoding a cDNA containing a putative NAC domain, the fructose-bisphosphate aldolase, and a protease inhibitor. Expression of three cDNAs was decreased in se5 but not photoperiodically regulated. These cDNAs included a rice homolog of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA (GI), lir1, and a gene for myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase, all of which were previously shown to be under the control of circadian clocks. The expression patterns of the rice homolog of GI, OsGI, were similar to those of the Arabidopsis GI, suggesting the conservation of some mechanisms for the photoperiodic regulation of flowering between these two species.
12040097	Binding experiments as well as affinity labeling with an (125)I-labeled 2-(4-aminophenyl)ethylamino derivative of N-acetylchitooctaose revealed the presence of high-affinity binding sites/proteins for N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor in the plasma membrane preparation from suspension-cultured carrot cells, barley cells and wheat leaves. Their binding specificity corresponded with the elicitor activity of N-acetylchitooligosaccharides and related sugars in these plant cells/tissues, and was similar to that reported for the binding site/protein previously reported for suspension-cultured rice cells. The molecular size of the binding proteins identified in carrot, barley and wheat was slightly smaller than that of rice. These plant cells were shown to respond to N-acetylchitooligosaccharides and generate reactive oxygen species, induced medium alkalinization, or previously shown to initiate lignification (wheat leaves, Barber et al. (1989) Physiol. Mol. Plant Pathol. 34: 3). No elicitor-binding protein nor the elicitor-induced cellular responses was detected for a cell line of tobacco BY-2 (BY-2T). On the other hand, another cell line of tobacco BY-2 (BY-2N) showed the presence of elicitor-binding protein and also elicitor-induced medium alkalinization. Thus, there was a good correlation between the existence of high-affinity binding proteins for the elicitor and elicitor-induced cellular responses among tested plant cells. These results indicated the wide distribution of N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor-binding protein among various plants and added further support for the function of these plasma membrane proteins in the perception of the elicitor signal.
12040100	Following endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress that prevents correct folding or assembly of ER proteins, at least three responses occur to maintain cell homeostasis: induction of chaperones, attenuation of protein synthesis, and enhancement of lipid synthesis. Transducers that transmit ER stress to the nucleus have already been identified in yeast and mammals. We report here isolation of a cDNA, OsIre1, from rice encoding a putative homolog of Ire1p, a yeast transducer of ER stress. OsIre1 encodes a polypeptide consisting of 893 amino acids, in which two hydrophobic stretches are present in the amino-terminal (N-terminal) and middle regions, possibly serving as a signal peptide and a transmembrane domain, respectively. The carboxyl-terminal (C-terminal) domain was found to possess serine/threonine protein kinase and ribonuclease-like domains showing high similarities with regions in Ire1 homologs from other organisms. A fusion protein of OsIre1 and green fluorescent protein (GFP) expressed in tobacco BY2 cells could be demonstrated to localize to the ER and the N-terminal domain of OsIre1 could substitute for yeast Ire1p in yeast cells. When produced in bacteria as a fusion protein, the C-terminal region of OsIre1 showed autophosphorylation activity. These results thus indicate that OsIre1 encodes a putative plant transducer of ER stress.
12040422	Profilin is a low molecular weight protein and is identified as an actin-binding protein in higher plants. Two pollen-specific cDNA clones of rice, RproA and RproB, were isolated from a cDNA library of rice mature pollen. The two cDNA clones was 821 bp and 805 bp long and contained an open reading frame of 131 amino acids, 5' and 3' untranslated regions and a long poly(A) tail. The comparison of deduced amino acid sequences from RproA and RproB cDNA and other plant profilin cDNA indicated that the two rice profilin are high homologous to each other, showed that 89% similarity to maize (ZmPRO3), 87% to C. dactylon, 83% to H.brasiliensis and 89% to P. pratense. Genomic southernblot analysis suggested the existence of two genes at least. Northern blot and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that the two rice profilin cDNA are anther or pollen specific.
12041871	As part of our effort to investigate fungi associated with soybean roots, Stachybotrys chartarum was isolated from soybean root lesions. Since this fungus has not been reported to cause a disease of soybean, the objectives were to identify and characterize this fungus using biological, chemical, and molecular approaches. Fungal morphology was examined using light and environmental scanning electron microscopy. Phialides bearing conidia arose from determinate, macronematous, dark olivaceous conidiophores. The phialides were obovate or ellipsoidal in whorls. Conidia were unicellular, round or ellipsoidal, 5-13 x 4-7 microm, initially hyaline with smooth walls then dark brown to black and rough-walled when mature. Radial growth of the fungus on cornmeal, oatmeal and potato dextrose agar was 38, 47, and 33 mm in diam., respectively, after 10 days at 25 degrees C. Pathogenicity was performed using sorghum grain colonized by S. chartarum placed below sown soybean seeds in a soil: sand (1:1) steam-pasteurized mix. Three weeks after inoculation, root lesions ranged from 7 to 25 mm long. The fungus was reisolated from soybean root lesions and was reidentified as S. chartarum. Biochemical analysis indicated that this soybean isolate produced satratoxins G and H along with roridin L-2, as well as the spircyclic lactones and lactams in rice culture. PCR using a S. chartarum-specific primer StacR3 and IT51 amplified a 198-bp DNA fragment from the total genomic DNA. The DNA sequence of the ITS region was 100% identical to the S. chartarum strain ATCC 9182, one nucleotide mismatch with S. chartarum strain UAMH 7900, and differed from all published sequences of 12 other species of Stachybotrys and 2 species of Memnoniella in GenBank with genetic divergence ranging from 5.26 to 9.98%. This molecular evidence further supports the identification of S. chartarum isolated from soybean root lesions.
12042436	Two experiments were conducted to determine whether rice that has been genetically produced to express human lactoferrin (LF) or lysozyme (LZ) protects the intestinal tract similarly to subtherapeutic antibiotics (bacitracin + roxarsone; Antibiotics). Experiment 1 compared 10 corn-soy diets containing 20% of various proportions of LF, LZ or conventional rice (CONV). Chicks fed 5% LF + 10% LZ + 5% CONV had significantly better feed efficiency and thinner lamina propria in the duodenum than those fed 20% CONV. Experiment 2 compared five corn-soy diets containing experimental rice combinations totaling 15% rice. Chicks fed 10% LZ + 5% CONV or 5% LF + 10% LZ had significantly lower feed intake and significantly better feed efficiency than those fed 15% CONV. Chicks fed 10% LZ + 5% CONV, 5% LF + 10% LZ or Antibiotics had significantly greater villous height in the duodenum compared with chicks fed 15% CONV. The lamina propria of the ileum was thinner and contained fewer leukocytes in chicks fed 10% LZ + 5% CONV or Antibiotics compared with those fed 15% CONV. The results from these experiments demonstrate a potential of genetically produced LF and LZ rice to be used as a substitute for antibiotics in broiler diets.
12042500
12042514
12043573	Yield and yield components in hybrid rice were investigated using AFLP, RAPD and SSR markers. Ten restorer and five male-sterile lines were crossed in all possible pairs resulting in 50 crosses. Positive loci, effect-increasing loci, effect-decreasing loci and non-environmental loci were selected from the 931 marker loci surveyed in the 15 parental lines and their correlation with yield and yield components were analyzed. The results indicated as follows (1) The correlation between genetic difference and yield and yield components calculated on all three molecular loci failed to reach significant level for most of the traits investigated and can not be used to predict yield and yield components directly. (2) Positive loci were of limited usefulness in the prediction of yield and yield components for their variation with different traits investigated despite that they can improve the correlation coefficient in some degree. (3) Effect-increasing and effect-decreasing loci can greatly improve correlation coefficient and may be used to predict the yield and yield components for their consistence with the environment. (4) The coefficient based on non-environmental loci was high though it was a bit lower than that based on effect-increasing and effect-decreasing loci. It indicated that environment had great effect on yield and yield components in rice.
12043577	This study analyzed the characteristics of reverse transcriptase sequences of copia-like retrotransposons in Amaranthus via PCR amplification and sequence approaches. The results are as follows: (1) The reverse transcriptase sequences of copia-like retrotransposons were detected in all 30 Amaranthus accessions studied, indicating that this class of retrotransposons is ubiquitous in Amaranthus; (2) Twenty-eight reverse transcriptases in A. quitensis were cloned and sequenced, showing extensive heterogeneity in base deletion mutation and stop codon mutation; (3) Cluster and alignment analyses of the 28 sequences and other published sequences of the reverse transcriptase from other species (such as rice, tomato and Drosophila) showed that the copia-like retrotransposons in A. quitensis have a close relationship with those in dicot and monocot plants. The evolution of copia-like retrotransposons in A. tricolor, which might be of the same origin as the copia and 1731 in Drosophila, was discussed.
12045139	In this study, we describe a property of Gramineae genes, and perhaps all monocot genes, that is not observed in eudicot genes. Along the direction of transcription, beginning at the junction of the 5'-UTR and the coding region, there are gradients in GC content, codon usage, and amino-acid usage. The magnitudes of these gradients are large enough to hinder the annotation of the rice genome and to confound the detection of protein homologies across the monocot-eudicot divide.
12046654	The protein-binding forms of cadmium in polluted rice and wheat seeds and their stability were investigated using the methods of Sephadex chromatography. Three absorption peaks (F-I, F-II and F-III) were identified in Tris-HCl extraction of rice and wheat on Sephadex G 75. The Cd in the protein extracts from rice and wheat seeds was distributed mainly in the fractions of F-I and F-III. The apparent molecular weights of Cd-binding proteins for F-I and F-III were 54.5 and 5.5 KD, respectively. The components of amino acid for the protein bound with heavy metals were different. There were high contents of glutamic acid, cysteine, valine, isoleucine, leucine and tyrosine in the protein extracts of rice and wheat. After cooking, the Cd-binding proteins were destroyed. High molecular weight protein-binding form (54.5 KD) was broken into low molecular weight complex (5.5 KD) or tiny peptide chain. Simultaneously, Cd bound with protein was released, or mainly bound with protein of smaller molecular size. Enzyme treatment (pepsin and trypsin) also caused a destruction of Cd binding protein and a change in the distribution of Cd in the eluent. The concentrations of Cd in the elution of first and third peak decreased markedly, and the Cd distribution was observed in the elution after third peak (F-III).
12046658	Emissions of biomass fuel combustion in residential stove from Chinese countryside were analyzed to determine the endocrine disrupters by using recombinant yeast bioassay. The results showed that there were significant steroid modulating activities found in combustion soot of five kinds of biomass fuels, which were wood, crop residue, grass, bush and rice straw. The steroid activities in the different sub-fractions from chromatographic separation were also determined, and the results indicated that polar fraction extracted by methanol and aromatic fraction extracted by benzene had relatively high steroid activities, and aliphatic fraction almost had no activity. The GC/MS results showed that polycyclic aromatic compounds and their derivatives, substituted phenolic compounds and their derivatives, aromatic carbonyl compounds, and higher molecular weight alcohols and ketones may be the main steroid disrupters in these soots.
12046759	As a substitute of tritium, deuterated water (D2O) vapor release experiments were performed in a greenhouse to estimate the different formation and subsequent retention of organically bound deuterium in rice plants between daytime and nighttime exposure. Potted rice plants were exposed to D2O vapor in the greenhouse for 8 h, under day or night conditions. Deuterium concentrations in free water and organic matter in rice leaves and ears were investigated until harvest time. The formation of organically bound deuterium in the daytime was higher than during the nighttime by the factors of 2.4 for the ear and 2.9 for the leaf. The decrease of the organically bound deuterium concentration in the ear after the nighttime exposure was faster than that after the daytime exposure. Data analysis was carried out using a compartment model in which different generating processes of organic matter were considered. The calculated organically bound deuterium retention in rice agreed with the measured value.
12049198	Earlier surveys (1, B. G. Lane. [1991] FASEB J. 5, 2983-2901; 2, B. G. Lane. [1994] FASEB J. 8, 294-301) helped to uproot entrenched views of plant oxalate as a static substance. It is now recognized that oxalate oxidases (OXOs) found in the "true cereals" (barley, maize, oat, rice, rye, wheat), the so-called germin OXOs (G-OXOs), or simply germins, are involved in cereal defence responses to invasion by fungal pathogens and that they show promise of being valuable agents of plant defence in dicotyledons, where they are not found naturally. G-OXOs have very peculiar properties: (a) their water-soluble oligomeric structures and enzymic activity are stable during SDS-PAGE and nitrocellulose blotting, (b) their undenatured water-soluble forms are refractory to the action of broad-specificity proteases, (c) their water-insoluble forms occur abundantly (approximately 50%) in the extracellular matrix (cell walls) of wheat, and probably in varying amounts in the cell walls of other true cereals. Transfer of the wheat G-OXO coding element to dicotyledons has been found, in all cases so far examined, to result in improved resistance to fungal pathogens. The possible nature of the improved resistance is discussed in relation to (a) generation of microcidal concentrations of hydrogen peroxide when the G-OXOs act on oxalate, (b) elicitation of hypersensitive cell death at lower concentrations of hydrogen peroxide, (c) formation of effective barriers against predator penetration by the hydrogen-peroxide-mediated lignification of cell walls, and (d) destruction of oxalate, which is an inhibitor of the hypersensitive response, a strategy of particular importance in the case of ubiquitous predator organisms such as Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, which secrete high concentrations of oxalate as a toxin.
12049433	Stachybotrys chartarum (atra) is a toxigenic fungus frequently found in water-damaged buildings. Although microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) produced by Aspergillus, Penicillium, and other fungi have been investigated extensively, little information exists on what MVOCs can be produced by S. chartarum. In this study, three strains of S. chartarum isolated from water-damaged residential homes in Cleveland, Ohio, were cultivated on rice and gypsum board. Air samples were collected after one, two, three, four, and six weeks of cultivation using Tenax TA tubes. Unique MVOCs were determined and other alcohols, ketones, and terpenes were also investigated using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry after thermal desorption from the sampling tube. Four unique MVOCs, 1-butanol, 3-methyl-1-butanol, 3-methyl-2-butanol, and thujopsene, were detected on rice cultures, and only one of them (1-butanol) was detected on gypsum board cultures. For a given strain, volatiles were considerably different with different cultivation media. Concentration profiles of the volatile compounds varied among compounds; however, each compound exhibited corresponding concentration trends between the strains. In comparison with our previous studies of five Aspergillus species on gypsum board under the same experimental conditions, fewer unique MVOCs were produced by S. chartarum, and they were quite different. It thus may be possible to use marker-unique MVOCs as a fingerprint to distinguish fungi in indoor environments once enough information becomes available. Our findings also indicate that volatiles produced by S. chartarum may represent a relatively small fraction of the total volatiles present in problem buildings where Aspergillus spp., Penicillium spp., and other fungi usually coexist.
12049670	Genetic mapping and determination of the organization of the wheat genome are changing the wheat-breeding process. New initiatives to analyze the expressed portion of the wheat genome and structural analysis of the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice are increasing our knowledge of the genes that are linked to key agronomically important traits.
12050804	Two solo-LTRs, named SLTR1 and SLTR2, were found in BAC t17804 and q5343 on rice chromosome 4, respectively. SLTR1 is in a 18 S rRNA gene and SLTR2 is in a retrotransposon. They share sequence homology and show sequence similarity 89.1% and 70.1% to the LTR of rice retrotransposon RIRE8, respectively. SLTR1 and SLTR2 are of gypsy retrotransposons of rice. They are both highly repetitive sequences and widely distributed in the rice genome, as shown by hybridization with specific probes of SLTR1 and SLTR2. Using PCR amplication with primers on flanking sequences of SLTR1 and SLTR2, no bands corresponding to those of BACs were amplified using the rice genomic DNA as template. SLTR1 and SLTR2 did not locate in the relative loci of the rice genome, as supported by hybridization with specific probes of genes interrupted by them. Obviously, SLTR1 and SLTR2 reported here came from different loci of the genome by the transposition. These solo-LTRs may be useful for our rice genome studies.
12050805	Sequence analysis of a rice BAC q3037(H0207F01) identified a cluster of five tandemly arranged peroxidase genes, osp1,osp2,osp3,osp4 and osp5, within a 22.5 kb region. osp4,osp5 each have three exons interrupted by two introns, while osp1,osp2 and osp3 each have two exons interrupted by a single intron. The five genes were predicted products of 338, 335, 336, 343 and 346 amino acid residues, respectively, including putative signal peptide sequence at the amino-termini. And OSP1, OSP4 and OSP5 were predicted to be anionic peroxidase, OSP2 and OSP3 are cationic. Comparative analysis and evolutionary analysis of the clustered genes and other peroxidase family members revealed that the gene cluster occurred by tandemly gene duplications(from osp5 to osp1) and that osp5,ap1 and prx7 were potential orthologies, and osp1-5, ap1 and prx7 constituted a novel evolutionary branch of class III peroxidases.
12052040	Analgesia is an important physiological function of the endocannabinoid system and one of significant clinical relevance. This review discusses the analgesic effects of endocannabinoids at spinal and peripheral levels, firstly by describing the physiological framework for analgesia and secondly by reviewing the evidence for analgesic effects of endocannabinoids obtained using animal models of clinical pain conditions. In the spinal cord, CB(1) receptors have been demonstrated in laminae of the dorsal horn intimately concerned with the processing of nociceptive information and the modulation thereof. Similarly, CB(1) receptors have been demonstrated on the cell bodies of primary afferent neurones; however, the exact phenotype of cells which express this receptor requires further elucidation. Local administration, peptide release and electrophysiological studies support the concept of spinally mediated endocannabinoid-induced analgesia. Whilst a proportion of the peripheral analgesic effect of endocannabinoids can be attributed to a neuronal mechanism acting through CB(1) receptors expressed by primary afferent neurones, the antiinflammatory actions of endocannabinoids, mediated through CB(2) receptors, also appears to contribute to local analgesic effects. Possible mechanisms of this CB(2)-mediated effect include the attenuation of NGF-induced mast cell degranulation and of neutrophil accumulation, both of which are processes known to contribute to the generation of inflammatory hyperalgesia. The analgesic effects of cannabinoids have been demonstrated in models of somatic and visceral inflammatory pain and of neuropathic pain, the latter being an important area of therapeutic need. Analgesia is one of the principal therapeutic targets of cannabinoids. This review will discuss the analgesic effects of endocannabinoids in relation to two areas of therapeutic need, persistent inflammation and neuropathic pain. The more general aspects of the role of cannabinoids, endogenous and exogenous, in analgesia have been recently reviewed elsewhere (Rice, Curr Opi Invest Drugs 2001; 2: 399-414; Pertwee, Prog Neurobil 2001; 63: 569-611; Rice, Mackie, In: Evers A. S, ed. Anesthetic Pharmacology: Physiologic Principles and Clinical Practice. St. Louis: Harcourt Health Sciences, 2002). Since a major goal in the development of cannabinoid-based analgesics is to divorce the antinociceptive effects from the psychotrophic effects, the discussion will focus on the antinociceptive effects produced at the spinal cord and/or peripheral level as these areas are the most attractive targets in this regard. A mechanistic discussion of the "framework" for analgesia will be followed by a description of studies examining the role of endocannabinoids in relieving pain; since the elucidation of these effects was undertaken using synthetic cannabinoids, reference will also be made to such studies, in the context of endocannabinoids.
12052066	Transgenic rice cell cultures, capable of producing recombinant human alpha(1)-antitrypsin (rAAT), were scaled up from shake flasks to a 5-L bioreactor. The maximum specific growth rates (mu(max)) observed from two bioreactor runs were 0.40 day(-1) (doubling time of 1.7 days) and 0.47 day(-1) (doubling time of 1.5 days), and the maximum specific oxygen uptake rates were 0.78 and 0.84 mmol O(2)/(g dw h). Using a metabolically regulated rice alpha-amylase (RAmy3D) promoter, signal peptide, and terminator, sugar deprivation turned on rAAT expression, and rAAT was secreted into the culture medium. After 1 day of culture in sugar-free medium, there was still continued biomass growth, oxygen consumption, and viability. Extracellular concentrations of 51 and 40 mg active rAAT/L were reached 1.7 and 2.5 days, respectively, after induction in a sugar-free medium. Volumetric productivities for two batch cultures were 7.3 and 4.6 mg rAAT/(L day), and specific productivities were 3.2 and 1.6 mg rAAT/(g dw day). Several different molecular weight bands of immunoreactive rAAT were observed on immunoblots.
12052769
12052932
12053935
12054349	The performance of an expression system based on a fusion of the bacteriophage 434-repressor to the VP16 activation domain of Herpes simplex virus type 1 (434:VP16) was tested after stable integration into Arabidopsis. A special feature of this system was the use of the monocot maize ubiquitin1 and rice actin1 promoters to drive the expression of the 434:VP16 activator and 434-repressor, respectively. Our results demonstrate that the maize ubiquitin1 and the rice actin1 promoters, each of which contain introns, are active in Arabidopsis and can be used to express genes in this dicot species. Activation of gene expression after co-integration of the activator and reporter cassettes into the same genomic locus resulted in a higher activation level (84-fold activation) compared to crossing individual lines expressing only the activator or the operator reporter cassette alone (9-fold activation). Increasing the number of operator elements in the reporter cassette from 1 to 4 increased the activation level in cross-activated lines to an average of 281-fold with one combination of parental lines giving a 900-fold activation. Simultaneous expression of the 434-repressor protein driven by the rice actin promoter resulted in a significant decrease in the 434:VP16 mediated reporter gene expression. Nevertheless, an overall induction via 434:VP16 was possible even in the presence of the 434-repressor protein. This feature is important for genes which need to be absolutely repressed except under activating conditions. To our knowledge this investigation is the first report on the use of the 434:VP16 chimeric activator in an expression system in stably transformed plant lines.
12056493	Intra-particle diffusion of sulfuric acid into sugarcane bagasse, corn stover, rice straw and yellow poplar was investigated to determine the effective diffusivity of sulfuric acid within the porous biomass structure. Diffusion experiments were conducted over 25-75 degrees C for two different biomass sizes using dynamic diffusion test cells. Diffusivities of sulfuric acid in agricultural residues were significantly higher than those of hard wood. Diffusivity data for each biomass were fitted into the Arrhenius equation for extrapolation to higher temperatures. The diffusivity data were subsequently incorporated into a theoretical model to determine acid profile within the biomass matrix. The modeling results indicate that intra-particle diffusion of acid influences the rate of dilute-acid pretreatment if unground biomass feedstock is used under normal pretreatment conditions. A criterion was set up to determine the critical biomass size at which the intra-particle acid diffusion becomes a rate-influencing factor for a given pretreatment condition.
12056799	A novel 7-kDa non-specific lipid transfer protein-2 (nsLTP2) has been isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) seeds. In contrast to nsLTP1s, few nsLTP2s have been purified and characterized. Complete amino acid sequence of rice nsLTP2 was determined by N-terminal Edman degradation of the intact protein as well as the peptide fragments resulted from trypsin digestions. Rice nsLTP2 consists of 69 amino acid residues with eight conserved cysteines forming four disulfide bonds. The secondary structure of rice nsLTP2 is predominantly alpha-helical as determined by circular dichroism spectroscopy. Cysteine pairings of nsLTP2 have one miss match at Cys(35)-X-Cys(37) motif compared to nsLTP1. Primary structure analysis of various plant nsLTP2s revealed an interesting conservation of sequence features among nsLTP2 family.
12056973
12057018	Rice fields are efficient breeding places for malaria vectors in Madagascar. In order to establish as easily as possible if a rice field is an effective larval site for anophelines, we compared classical dipping versus a net as methods of collecting larvae. Using similar collecting procedures, we found that the total number of anopheline larvae collected with the net was exactly double (174/87) that collected by dipping. The number of anopheline species collected was also greater with a net. The net is an effective means of collecting anopheline larvae and can be used for qualitative ecological studies and to rapidly determine which rice fields are containing malaria vectors.
12058928	The chromatographic behaviour of selected transition and heavy metal ions, the lanthanides, uranium and aluminium, on a neutral polystyrene-divinylbenzene (PS-DVB) stationary phase (7 microm Hamilton PRP-1) dynamically modified with 4-chlorodipicolinic acid, was investigated to evaluate retention characteristics. Complicated retention factor against pH plots were found for these metals demonstrating changes in retention order. It was concluded that complexation between the metal ions and the ligand adsorbed on the resin was strongly influenced by the decrease in dynamic loading with increase in pH, coinciding with changes in the metal-to-ligand ratio in the mobile phase. Possible reversed-phase interactions between metal-chlorodipicolinic acid complexes and the hydrophobic PS-DVB stationary phase also could not be ruled out. An eluent of 0.25 mM chlorodipicolinic acid, I M potassium nitrate at pH 2.2 was suitable for the separation of seven transition and heavy metal ions in under 20 min on a 250 x 4.6 mm column (with 50-mm guard column), determined in a certified water sample with good accuracy (R2 > or = 0.994) and reproducibility (RSD 1-4.2%). Pb(II), Cd(II) and Cu(II) were additionally analysed in <10 min in a more complicated certified rice flour matrix, using the same eluent but adjusted to pH 1.5, again with good accuracy (R2 > or = 0.998) and reproducibility (RSD 0.48-1.38%).
12059099	Bacterial attack is a serious agricultural problem for growth of rice seedlings in the nursery and field. The thionins purified from seed and etiolated seedlings of barley are known to have antimicrobial activity against necrotrophic pathogens; however, we found that no endogenous rice thionin genes alone are enough for resistance to two major seed-transmitted phytopathogenic bacteria, Burkholderia plantarii and B. glumae, although rice thionin genes constitutively expressed in coleoptile, the target organ of the bacteria. Thus, we isolated thionin genes from oat, one of which was overexpressed in rice. When wild-type rice seed were germinated with these bacteria, all seedlings were wilted with severe blight. In the seedling infected with B. plantarii, bacterial staining was intensively marked around stomata and intercellular spaces. However, transgenic rice seedlings accumulating a high level of oat thionin in cell walls grew almost normally with bacterial staining only on the surface of stomata. These results indicate that the oat thionin effectively works in rice plants against bacterial attack.
12059171	Effects of food materials were investigated on removal of several kinds of thiols, sulfides, and disulfides, which arise from vegetables of Allium species during food preparation and eating. Methanethiol, propanethiol, and 2-propenethiol were captured by raw foods such as fruits, vegetables, and mushrooms or a mixture of their acetone powders and phenolic compounds. The odor of diallyl disulfide was remarkably reduced by kiwi fruit, spinach, cutting lettuce, parsley, basil, mushrooms, and, particularly, cow's milk, raw egg, boiled rice, and bovine serum albumin (BSA). This suggests that the removal of diallyl disulfide could be caused by a physical and chemical interaction between the disulfide and foods. Furthermore, milk and BSA captured propanethiol, 2-propenethiol, dipropyl sulfide, diallyl sulfide, dimethyl disulfide, and dipropyl disulfide very well. An enzymatic degradation of diallyl disulfide by spinach and asparagus was also observed. These results demonstrate that the deodorization with foods is achieved by multiple actions including physical and chemical interaction between volatile sulfur compounds and foods, enzymatic degradation of disulfides, and addition of thiols to polyphenolic compounds, catalyzed by polyphenol oxidases or peroxidases.
12059532	The phenomenon of effective phase synchronization in stochastic oscillatory systems can be quantified by an average frequency and a phase diffusion coefficient. A different approach to compute the noise-averaged frequency is put forward. The method is based on a threshold crossing rate pioneered by Rice. After the introduction of the Rice frequency for noisy systems we compare this quantifier with those obtained in the context of other phase concepts, such as the natural and the Hilbert phase, respectively. It is demonstrated that the average Rice frequency <omega>R typically supersedes the Hilbert frequency <omega>H, i.e. <omega>R > or = <omega>H. We investigate next the Rice frequency for the harmonic and the damped, bistable Kramers oscillator, both without and with external periodic driving. Exact and approximative analytic results are corroborated by numerical simulation results. Our results complement and extend previous findings for the case of noise-driven inertial systems.
1206010	Two antifungal antibiotics, mycobacillin and versicolin, were studied as agricultural fungicides in the control of fungal infection of rice and jute. Mycobacillin is especially active against Piricularia oryzae at a concentration of 10 mug/ml, and versicolin against Colletotrichum gloeosporioides at a concentration of 2.5 mug/ml. Mycobacillin has no adverse effect on germination of seeds and growth of seedlings of rice and jute plants as a concentration of 500ppm, even for prolonged exposure. (24 or 48 hours); in fact, it is stimulatory. On the other hand, versicolin has showed detectable phytotoxicity at 500ppm for prolonged exposure
12060225	A 2 kb DNA fragment, upstream of the rice beta-tubulin isotype 16 (Ostub16) coding sequence, was isolated using inverse PCR and screening of a tubulin-enriched lambda library. An intron (863 bp) present in the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) is spliced out to produce the most abundant mRNA species which corresponds to the previously cloned Ostub16 cDNA. Transient expression assays performed on rice embryogenic calluses with chimeric Ostub16::GUS constructs demonstrated that the entire 2 kb upstream sequence has a strong promoter activity, and that the 863 bp intron is required for high-level GUS expression. In addition, the intron sequence is capable per se of sustaining a weak but consistent GUS expression. Two rare Ostub16 transcripts, with a start site mapping within this intron sequence, were detected in rice coleoptile cells. The transcription start site mapped at position -290 with respect to the ATG codon, and the shorter molecule originated from splicing of the same precursor mRNA. Therefore transcriptional expression of rice beta-tubulin isotype 16 results in the synthesis of two premRNA molecules (I and II) encoding for three different mRNA species. We discuss these findings in terms of function and molecular evolution of the mechanisms that control plant beta-tubulin gene expression.
12060226	Plants have recently been found to have E2F-like and Rb-like proteins, regulators responsible for the G1(G0)-S phase transition of the cell cycle in animals. Here we show that E2F is involved in transcription of plant genes for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), which is required for DNA replication. Potential E2F binding sites found in the rice PCNA promoters mediated transcriptional activation in actively dividing cells and tissues of tobacco, but not transcriptional repression in terminally differentiated tissues, as also observed for the PCF binding sites previously found in the rice promoter. Similar results were obtained from analyses for a PCNA promoter isolated from tobacco, which contained two E2F-like sites, each with a different degree of contribution to the promoter activation. These E2F-like sites except for a rice site were indeed bound specifically by recombinant proteins of rice E2F, OsE2F1 and OsE2F2, and complexes of OsE2F1 with Arabidopsis DP proteins. Furthermore, OsE2F1 had the ability to transactivate an E2F-reporter gene containing the tobacco E2F site on co-expression with an Arabidopsis DP, and the transactivation was greatly enhanced by tagging a canonical nuclear localization signal to OsE2F1, suggesting a nuclear import-mediated regulation of the OsE2F1 function. In addition, we found that a large number of replication- and mismatch repair-associated genes in Arabidopsis contain E2F binding sequences conserved in their predicted promoter regions.
12060234	A protein kinase activity that can phosphorylate and inactivate rice (Oryza sativa) sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS; UDP-glucose: d-fructose-6-phosphate-2-glucosyl transferase, EC 2.4.1.14) was measured in extracts prepared from leaves exposed to light-dark transitions. Enzyme activity present in extracts from dark leaves was about 5-fold higher than the activity in extracts from leaves that had been collected in the light. The protein kinase (named R-SPSK) was purified about 100-fold from dark leaves and its biochemical properties were studied. The micromolar dependence of Ca2+ exhibited by R-SPSK, and its response to calmodulin antagonists was similar to the properties associated with members of the plant Calcium-Dependent Protein Kinase (CDPK) family. Two modulators of SPS activity, Pi and Glc-6-P, were examined for an effect on R-SPSK. While Glc-6-P did not affect R-SPSK activity, Pi drastically increased the kinase activity. Taken together, these data provide evidence that SPS may be regulated by a CDPK type protein-kinase whose activity is modulated by light-dark transitions and stimulated by Pi, the negative effector of SPS activity.
12060281	Water (H2 15O) translocation from the roots to the top of rice plants (Oryza saliva L. cv. Nipponbare) was visualized over time by a positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS). H2 15O flow was activated 8 min after plants were exposed to bright light (1 500 &mgr;mol m-2 s-1). When the light was subsequently removed, the flow gradually slowed and completely stopped after 12 min. In plants exposed to low light (500 &mgr;mol m-2 s-1), H2 15O flow was activated more slowly, and a higher translocation rate of H2 15O was observed in the same low light at the end of the next dark period. NaCl (80 mM) and methylmercury (1 mM) directly suppressed absorption of H2 15O by the roots, while methionine sulfoximine (1 mM), abscisic acid (10 &mgr;M) and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (10 mM) were transported to the leaves and enhanced stomatal closure, reducing H2 15O translocation.
12060286	In order to estimate whether cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1; EC 6.3.1.2) is partly coupled to the reaction of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL; EC 4.3.1.5) in developing organs of rice (Oryza sativa L.), we compared the expression pattern of transcripts and proteins for GS1 and PAL in the tissue sections from leaf blades at various stages of development. In immature vascular bundles of unexpanded leaf blades, GS1 mRNA was mainly detected in xylem parenchyma cells, mestome-sheath cells, and sclerenchyma cells. PAL transcripts were also accumulated in these cell types. Vascular bundles in midribs of immature leaf blades contained mRNAs and proteins for both GS1 and PAL abundantly in sclerenchyma cells, although distribution of these two proteins was not completely overlapped. In immature vascular bundles in midribs, lignin deposition was observed in cell walls of xylem parenchyma cells, mestome-sheath cells and sclerenchyma cells. These results implied that a part of GS1 in unexpanded leaf blades is possibly involved in reassimilation of ammonia released from PAL reaction during the lignin production.
12060305	A simple new method, competitive hybridization, for identification of differentially regulated genes was used to isolate novel genes induced by ethylene in citrus (Citrus sinensis [L.] Osbeck cv. Shamouti) leaves. One of the isolated genes, an ethylene-induced esterase gene (EIE), was further characterized. The deduced protein sequence of this gene shows a similarity to those of several plant alpha/beta hydrolase gene family members, which are known to be involved in secondary metabolism. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that EIE mRNA was induced by ethylene within 4 h and accumulated to a very high level 24 h after the initiation of ethylene treatment. Induction of EIE by ethylene could be counteracted by 1-methylcyclopropene, a potent ethylene perception inhibitor, indicating that the expression of EIE is ethylene-dependent. The bacterially expressed protein of EIE was recognized by antiserum against Pir7b, a naphthol AS esterase induced in rice by the non-host pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. The EIE protein was identified in ethylene-treated leaves using anti-Pir7b antibodies. An alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase accumulated concomitantly with the increase in EIE protein in ethylene-treated citrus leaves. An enzyme activity assay followed by western analysis confirmed that the esterase was EIE.
12064331	4-Desmethylsterols and -stanols reduce plasma total cholesterol (TC) and LDL cholesterol by inhibition of intestinal cholesterol absorption, while the cholesterol-lowering potential of 4,4'-dimethylsterols is less well defined. The present study aimed to compare the effects of 4-desmethylsterols, -stanols, and 4,4'-dimethylsterols on plasma and hepatic cholesterol, sterol excretion and bile acid metabolism. Male golden Syrian hamsters were fed diets containing 13 g/100 g fat, 008 g/100 g cholesterol and 0 (control), 0.24 or 0.48% (w/w) esterified 4-desmethylsterols (sterols) and esterified hydrogenated 4-desmethylsterols (stanols) from common vegetable oils or esterified 4,4'-dimethylsterols from rice bran oil for 5 weeks. Sterol and stanol esters at the dose of 0.24% were equally effective and significantly (P<0.05) lowered TC by 15%, while 0.24% 4,4-dimethylsterols reduced TC by 10%. Liver total and esterified cholesterol concentrations were significantly (P<0.05) lowered by 40, 22, 43 and 31% in hamsters fed 0.48% sterols, 0.24% stanols, 0.48% stanols or 0.48% dimethylsterols, respectively. Daily faecal bile acid excretion and hepatic cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase activity were not altered, indicating that sterols, stanols and dimethylsterols had no effect on the intestinal re-absorption of bile acids or on hepatic bile acid synthesis. Daily excretion of cholesterol was significantly higher in hamsters fed esterified sterols and stanols, but was only slightly increased in those fed dimethylsterols. The results indicate that esterified sterols and stanols were equally effective in lowering plasma TC and LDL cholesterol, while dimethylsterol esters caused a weaker cholesterol-lowering effect. Sterols and stanols achieve their cholesterol-lowering effect by stimulating faecal cholesterol excretion through inhibiting intestinal cholesterol absorption, but do not affect bile acid excretion. Other mechanisms need to be considered to explain the effect on plasma and hepatic cholesterol of dimethylsterols.
12066215	Epidemiological and preclinical studies demonstrate that nutrition plays an important role in the etiology of cancer. It has been reported that rice components, especially rice germ plays a key role in prevention of cancer. The experiments described here examined the potential anticancer properties of brown rice fermented by Aspergillus Oryzae (FBRA) in male F344 rats using inhibition of the formation of azoxymethene (AOM) induced aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and tumors in the colon as the measure of preventive efficacy. The agent was administered at 2.5 and 5% levels in the diet during the initiation phase (during and until 1 week after carcinogen treatment) and/or post-initiation phase (beginning 1 week after carcinogen treatment) of carcinogenesis. In the ACF and tumor studies, rats were sacrificed 5 or 40 weeks after the initiation of AOM treatment (15 mg/kg body weight, once weekly for 3 weeks), respectively. Colonic ACF and tumors were evaluated histopathologically. Administration of 2.5 and 5% FBRA in the diet continuously during initiation and post-initiation period significantly inhibited the ACF formation in rats treated with AOM, compared with rats treated with AOM alone (99+/-24.1 and 79+/-18.4 vs. 139.5+/-27.7, respectively). In addition, administration of 5% FBRA in the diet during the post-initiation phase significantly suppressed the incidence (44 vs.18%) and multiplicity (0.93+/-0.96 vs. 0.18+/-0.40) of colon adenocarcinomas as compared to those given the control diet. In addition, 5% FBRA in the diet during post-initiation phase caused significant inhibition of cell proliferation in the colonic mucosa as compared to the group fed the control diet (81% reduction, p<0.05). These observations demonstrated for the first time that FBRA inhibits colon tumor development in rats, and suggest that it is a promising dietary supplement for prevention of human colon cancer.
12067430	The DONALD study (Dortmund Nutritional and Anthropometric Longitudinally Designed study) gives the opportunity to evaluate long-term food and nutrient intake data on the basis of 3 d weighed dietary records of infants, children and adolescents since 1985. In this paper, we examine changes in energy and macronutrient intakes (protein, fat, saturated, mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids, carbohydrates and added sugars) of 795 2-18-year-old subjects between 1985 and 2000 (4483 records). No significant changes in intakes of energy and of protein, polyunsaturated fatty acids and added sugars (as % energy intake, E %) were found. Fat intake decreased significantly in all age groups (between -0.20 and -0.26 E %/year), as well as intake of saturated fatty acids (between -0.11 and -0.14 E %/year) and monounsaturated fatty acids (between -0.07 and -0.014 E %/year). This decline was compensated for by a significant increase in carbohydrate intake (between +0.18 and +0.27 E %/year). The changes in macronutrient intake were mainly due to a decreased consumption of fats-oils (between -0.29 and -1.26 g/year) and meat-fish-eggs (between -0.21 and -2.92 g/year), whereas consumption of bread-cereals (between +0.12 and +2.42 g/year) and potatoes-pasta-rice (between +0.15 and +2.26 g/year) increased slightly. However, since recommended fat intake and fatty acid composition was not reached at the end of the study period by far, further efforts will be necessary to improve macronutrient composition and to stabilize favourable dietary habits.
12068117	Phototropins (phot1 and phot2, formerly designated nph1 and npl1) are blue-light receptors that mediate phototropism, blue light-induced chloroplast relocation, and blue light-induced stomatal opening in Arabidopsis. Phototropins contain two light, oxygen, or voltage (LOV) domains at their N termini (LOV1 and LOV2), each a binding site for the chromophore flavin mononucleotide (FMN). Their C termini contain a serine/threonine protein kinase domain. Here, we examine the kinetic properties of the LOV domains of Arabidopsis phot1 and phot2, rice (Oryza sativa) phot1 and phot2, and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii phot. When expressed in Escherichia coli, purified LOV domains from all phototropins examined bind FMN tightly and undergo a self-contained photocycle, characterized by fluorescence and absorption changes induced by blue light (T. Sakai, T. Kagawa, M. Kasahara, T.E. Swartz, J.M. Christie, W.R. Briggs, M. Wada, K. Okada [2001] Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98: 6969-6974; M. Salomon, J.M. Christie, E. Knieb, U. Lempert, W.R. Briggs [2000] Biochemistry 39: 9401-9410). The photocycle involves the light-induced formation of a cysteinyl adduct to the C(4a) carbon of the FMN chromophore, which subsequently breaks down in darkness. In each case, the relative quantum efficiencies for the photoreaction and the rate constants for dark recovery of LOV1, LOV2, and peptides containing both LOV domains are presented. Moreover, the data obtained from full-length Arabidopsis phot1 and phot2 expressed in insect cells closely resemble those obtained for the tandem LOV-domain fusion proteins expressed in E. coli. For both Arabidopsis and rice phototropins, the LOV domains of phot1 differ from those of phot2 in their reaction kinetic properties and relative quantum efficiencies. Thus, in addition to differing in amino acid sequence, the phototropins can be distinguished on the basis of the photochemical cycles of their LOV domains. The LOV domains of C. reinhardtii phot also undergo light-activated spectral changes consistent with cysteinyl adduct formation. Thus, the phototropin family extends over a wide evolutionary range from unicellular algae to higher plants.
12068884	To breed a new variety from "86-70 selective line"--a late-maturing early indica rice variety with small spike, light grain and weak disease resistance by space mutation. Dry seeds of "86-70 selective line" were carried by recoverable satellite, to a near earth orbit and sowed and planted on the earth after recovery, heritance and variation of the characters of SP1- SP9 generation were observed. Because of comprehensive space mutation, the characters of their progenies were segregated and varied in many aspects and directions, and the segregated and varied characters were found to be heritable; by selecting early-maturing mutants from these progenies and cultivating them directionally, a new rice variety "Ganzaoxian 47 " was bred. In comparison with its parent, "Ganzaoxian 47" had superior agronomic and economic characters, significantly strong resistance to rice blast and so on, its filled grains per spike [correction of spile], kilo-grain weight and yield were increased by 37.9%, 5.3% and 22.5% respectively, but its growth and developmental duration were shortened by 14 d. This study provided a new demonstration for space mutation breeding by recoverable satellite, and indicated that space mutation was an effective and new approach to agricultural crops breeding.
12068946
12070686	Nostoc ANTH is a filamentous, heterocystous cyanobacterium capable of N(2)-fixation in the absence of combined nitrogen. A chlorate-resistant mutant (Clo- R) of Nostoc ANTH was isolated that differentiates heterocysts and fixes N(2) in the presence of nitrate, but not in the presence of nitrite or ammonium. The mutant lacks nitrate uptake and thereby also lacks induction of nitrate reductase activity by nitrate. However, this mutant is able to transport and assimilate nitrite, indicating that there is a transport system for nitrite that is distinct from that for the nitrate. The lack of inhibitory effect of nitrate on N(2)-fixation was owing to lack of nitrate uptake and not to lack of enzymes for its assimilation (nitrate reductase and glutamine synthetase) or the lack of an ammonium transport system for retention of ammonia. The mutant has potential for use as a biofertilizer supplementing chemical nitrate fertilizer in rice fields, without N(2)-fixation being adversely affected.
12071303	Iron deficiency is estimated to affect about 30% of the world population. Iron supplementation in the form of tablets and food fortification has not been successful in developing countries, and iron deficiency is still the most important deficiency related to malnutrition. Here we present experiments that aim to increase the iron content in rice endosperm and to improve its absorption in the human intestine by means of genetic engineering. We first introduced a ferritin gene from Phaseolus vulgaris into rice grains, increasing their iron content up to twofold. To increase iron bioavailability, we introduced a thermo-tolerant phytase from Aspergillus fumigatus into the rice endosperm. In addition, as cysteine peptides are considered major enhancers of iron absorption, we over-expressed the endogenous cysteine-rich metallothionein-like protein. The content of cysteine residues increased about sevenfold and the phytase level in the grains about one hundred and thirtyfold, giving a phytase activity sufficient to completely degrade phytic acid in a simulated digestion experiment. This rice, with higher iron content, rich in phytase and cysteine-peptide has a great potential to substantially improve iron nutrition in those populations where iron deficiency is so widely spread.
12071308	Human milk proteins are believed to have a multitude of biological activities benefiting the newborn infant. Such functions include antibacterial and antiviral activities, enhancement of the immune system and increased nutrient absorption. To date, only breast-fed infants have been exposed to these proteins. However, by using genetic engineering it is now possible to express these proteins in plants, such as rice, at very high levels. Recombinant human milk proteins can subsequently be added to infant formula and baby foods. Prior to such addition, safety tests and efficacy trials need to be conducted. The safety tests will initially be done in rats and then in humans. The efficacy trials should also evaluate stability against heat treatment (processing), pH (stomach conditions) and proteolytic enzymes (digestion). To date, we have expressed recombinant human lactoferrin, lysozyme and alpha1-antitrypsin in rice at very high expression levels. These recombinant proteins showed a stability and activities similar to those of the native milk proteins, suggesting that they may be able to exert biological activities in infants when added to formula or baby foods.
12071322	Farmers in the Paranapanema Valley (São Paulo, Brazil) have reported problems with flocks of Eared Doves (Zenaida auriculata) eating sprouting soybeans. In this region these birds breed colonially in sugar-cane, and eat four crop seeds, using 70% of the dry weight, in the following order of importance: maize, wheat, rice, and soybeans. Three weeds (Euphorbia heterophylla, Brachiaria plantaginea, and Commelina benghalensis) were important. This information suggests that the doves adapted particularly well to the landscape created by the agricultural practices in the region, exploiting many available foods.
12072477	Comparative mapping of cereals has shown that chromosomes of barley, wheat, and maize can be described in terms of rice "linkage segments." However, little is known about marker order in the junctions between linkage blocks or whether this will impair comparative analysis of major genes that lie in such regions. We used genetic and physical mapping to investigate the relationship between the distal part of rice chromosome 7L, which contains the Hd2 heading date gene, and the region of barley chromosome 2HS containing the Ppd-H1 photoperiod response gene, which lies near the junction between rice 7 and rice 4 linkage segments. RFLP markers were mapped in maize to identify regions that might contain Hd2 or Ppd-H1 orthologs. Rice provided useful markers for the Ppd-H1 region but comparative mapping was complicated by loss of colinearity and sequence duplications that predated the divergence of rice, maize, and barley. The sequences of cDNA markers were used to search for homologs in the Arabidopsis genome. Homologous sequences were found for 13 out of 16 markers but they were dispersed in Arabidopsis and did not identify any candidate equivalent region. The implications of the results for comparative trait mapping in junction regions are discussed.
12074577	In search for components of MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) cascades in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare), we identified a single copy gene called OsMSRMK2 from jasmonic acid (JA) treated rice seedling leaf cDNA library. This gene has a conserved protein kinase domain, including a MAPK family signature, and encodes a 369 amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 42995.43 and a pI of 5.48. OsMSRMK2 did not show constitutive expression in leaves and was induced within 15 min in response to wounding by cut. Using in vitro system, we show that the expression of OsMSRMK2 mRNA was potently enhanced within 15 min by signalling molecules, protein phosphatase inhibitors, ultraviolet irradiation, fungal elicitor, heavy metals, high salt and sucrose, and drought. OsMSRMK2 expression was further modulated by co-application of JA, salicylic acid, and ethylene and required de novo synthesized protein factor(s) in its transient regulation. Moreover, high (37 degrees C) and low temperatures (12 degrees C) and environmental pollutants-ozone and sulfur dioxide-differentially regulate the OsMSRMK2 mRNA accumulation in leaves of intact plants. Present results demonstrating dramatic transcriptional and transient regulation of the OsMSRMK2 expression by diverse biotic/abiotic stresses, a first report for any rice (or plant) MAPK to date, suggest a role for OsMSRMK2 in rice defense/stress response pathways.
12075444	To observe the association between MITEs and genes in details, 82 kb of the rice genomic DNA were sequenced, and 10 genes were identified by similarity search. It was found that miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) were located upstream of the genes identified without exception, regardless of their directions of transcription. One MITE was found to be located between two 5' regions of the genes with opposite orientation of transcription, indicating that it was shared by them. The positional patterns of MITEs may therefore serve as an aid for preliminary screening of genes.
12077303	The introduction of semidwarf rice (Oryza sativa L.) led to record yield increases throughout Asia in the 1960s. The major semidwarfing allele, sd-1, is still extensively used in modern rice cultivars. The phenotype of sd-1 is consistent with dwarfism that results from a deficiency in gibberellin (GA) plant growth hormones. We propose that the semidwarf (sd-1) phenotype is the result of a deficiency of active GAs in the elongating stem arising from a defective 20-oxidase GA biosynthetic enzyme. Sequence data from the rice genome was combined with previous mapping studies to locate a putative GA 20-oxidase gene (Os20ox2) at the predicted map location of sd-1 on chromosome 1. Two independent sd-1 alleles contained alterations within Os20ox2: a deletion of 280 bp within the coding region of Os20ox2 was predicted to encode a nonfunctional protein in an indica type semidwarf (Doongara), whereas a substitution in an amino acid residue (Leu-266) that is highly conserved among dioxygenases could explain loss of function of Os20ox2 in a japonica semidwarf (Calrose76). The quantification of GAs in elongating stems by GC-MS showed that the initial substrate of GA 20-oxidase activity (GA53) accumulated, whereas the content of the major product (GA20) and of bioactive GA1 was lower in semidwarf compared with tall lines. We propose that the Os20ox2 gene corresponds to the sd-1 locus.
12077318	Stem rust caused by Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici was among the most devastating diseases of barley in the northern Great Plains of the U.S. and Canada before the deployment of the stem rust-resistance gene Rpg1 in 1942. Since then, Rpg1 has provided durable protection against stem rust losses in widely grown barley cultivars (cvs.). Extensive efforts to clone Rpg1 by synteny with rice provided excellent flanking markers but failed to yield the gene because it does not seem to exist in rice. Here we report the map-based cloning and characterization of Rpg1. A high-resolution genetic map constructed with 8,518 gametes and a 330-kb bacterial artificial chromosome contig physical map positioned the gene between two crossovers approximately 0.21 centimorgan and 110 kb apart. The region including Rpg1 was searched for potential candidate genes by sequencing low-copy probes. Two receptor kinase-like genes were identified. The candidate gene alleles were sequenced from resistant and susceptible cvs. Only one of the candidate genes showed a pattern of apparently functional gene structure in the resistant cvs. and defective gene structure in the susceptible cvs. identifying it as the Rpg1 gene. Rpg1 encodes a receptor kinase-like protein with two tandem protein kinase domains, a novel structure for a plant disease-resistance gene. Thus, it may represent a new class of plant resistance genes.
12078002	The global challenge of meeting increased food demand and protecting environmental quality will be won or lost in cropping systems that produce maize, rice, and wheat. Achieving synchrony between N supply and crop demand without excess or deficiency is the key to optimizing trade-offs amongst yield, profit, and environmental protection in both large-scale systems in developed countries and small-scale systems in developing countries. Setting the research agenda and developing effective policies to meet this challenge requires quantitative understanding of current levels of N-use efficiency and losses in these systems, the biophysical controls on these factors, and the economic returns from adoption of improved management practices. Although advances in basic biology, ecology, and biogeochemistry can provide answers, the magnitude of the scientific challenge should not be underestimated because it becomes increasingly difficult to control the fate of N in cropping systems that must sustain yield increases on the world's limited supply of productive farm land.
12078209	To provide scientific basis for the popularization and application of molluscide bromoacetamide. Large scale application of bromoacetamide in twenty eight counties of four provinces was investigated and its molluscicidal effect in marshland and influence on marshland grass (Cyperus) and fishes were observed. High molluscicidal effect of bromoacetamide was found against both snails and snail eggs in various environments. According to the results observed in different fields, the applicable dosage of bromoacetamide is 1.5-2 g/m2 for spraying method, 1.5-2 g/m3 for immersing method and 1.5-2 g/m for immersing in combination with shovelling the turf along the bank. When it was applied in fish-raising ponds or rivers at an applicable dosage, no toxic effect on fishes was found. The spraying dosage of bromoacetamide did not affect the rice seedling but it did some damage to the leaf-tips of marshland grass, however, the grass did turn green and grow. Bromoacetamide has proved to be a safe and effective mulluscicde against Oncomelania under various field conditions.
12079075	In anoxic rice fields methane is produced by either reduction of CO2 or cleavage of acetate. We measured the delta 13C-values of CH4 and CO2, acetate and organic carbon during time course experiments with anoxic methanogenic soil and root samples and used these values to calculate the fractions of CH4 (and acetate) produced from CO2 reduction. Comparison with radiotracer and/or inhibitor studies constrained the kinetic fractionation factors used for calculation. The fractionation factors for the conversion of CO2 to CH4 and of acetate to CH4 were on the order of alpha = 1.07 (epsilon = -70%) and epsilon > or = - 20%, respectively. The pathway of CH4 production changed with time of anoxic incubation. Anoxic slurries of rice field soil first produced CH4 predominantly (>50%) from CO2, then predominantly (>80%) from acetate and finally (after about one month) according to the theoretically expected ratio (33% CO2 and 67% acetate). Anoxic rice roots, on the other hand, initially produced CH4 exclusively from CO2, followed by contribution of acetate of about 40-60%. Rice roots also produced acetate that partially originated (< or = 1 30%) from reduction of CO2 as determined by calculation of isotopic fractionation using fractionation factors from the literature. The results demonstrate that there is quite some variability in pathways of CH4 production, and also indicate that isotopic fractionation factors may be different in different habitats and change with time.
12079094	Simultaneous rice-transplanting and subsequent application of pesticides to the paddy fields in the catchment of a rural river on weekends from late May to mid June caused high concentrations and high loadings of pesticides in the river. Imperfections in irrigation water management and the overflow discharge from paddy fields during heavy storm events increased the risk of drinking water contamination and threatened the aquatic ecosystems. Several pesticides were detected at nearly ten ppb in the biofilms on the river bed. In order to reduce the risks due to runoff pesticides, it is necessary to improve the management of irrigation and to strengthen the biodegradation capacity of biofilms on the river bed by maintaining a long retention time in drainage channels.
12079096	Hydrological diffuse pollution models require calibration before they can be used to make accurate long-term predictions for a range of hydrological and meteorological conditions. As such, the applicability of the models to the dispersion of new pesticides is limited due to the lack of calibration data. In this study, the performance of a GIS-based basin-scale runoff model for predicting the concentrations of paddy-farming pesticides in river water was examined when calibrated using hydrological data alone, without optimization based on empirical pesticide concentration data. The prediction accuracy on a daily or hourly scale was somewhat unsatisfactory due to inevitable compromises concerning rice farming schedules. However, the month-averaged pesticide concentrations were satisfactorily accurate; more than 50% of predicted values were between half and twice the observed values, considering the deficiencies of the input data, particularly for pesticide usage, which may include up to 50% error.
12079116	The input-intensive rainfed tropical ecosystem, where wet season (WS) rice (Oriza sativa L.)-dry season (DS) diversified high-value upland crops like vegetables predominate, has resulted in a problem of a large leakage of N into the environment, thereby polluting the water. Excessive use of N fertilizer in high-value crops grown in DS is economically motivated. Out of twenty water sources evaluated in a watershed with a total area of 265 ha located in Magnuang, Ilocos Norte, Philippines, twelve had near or above the World Health Organization's (WHO) NO3-N limit for drinking water of 10 ppm. Soil mineral N (upper 100 cm) observed in seven rice-sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) farmers' fields ranged from 111 to 694 kg ha(-1) which decreased by 10 to 68% in plots with dry-to-wet (DTW) crops like indigo, indigo+mungo and corn. In fallow plots where mineral N was either maintained or increased, it showed movement to lower soil profiles demonstrating NO3 leaching without a crop. On average, maize (Zea mays L.) captured 176 kg N ha(-1) and indigo (Indigofera tinctoria L.) 194 kg N ha(-1). In both fallow and planted plots, mineral N declined to low levels at 100% water-filled pore spaces (WFPS) before rice transplanting. A strategy for including indigo plus maize as a N-catch crop is proposed to decrease NO3 leaching and maximize N use efficiency in a rice-sweet pepper cropping system.
12079331	Xp10 is a lytic bacteriophage of Xanthomonas oryzae, a Gram-negative bacterium that causes rice blight. We purified an Xp10 protein, p7, that binds to and inhibits X. oryzae RNA polymerase (RNAP). P7 is a novel 73 amino acid-long protein; it does not bind to and hence does not affect transcription by Escherichia coli RNAP. Analysis of E. coli/X. oryzae RNAP hybrids locates the p7 binding site to the largest X. oryzae RNAP subunit, beta'. Binding of p7 to X. oryzae RNAP holoenzyme prevents large conformational change that places the sigma subunit region 4 into the correct position for interaction with the -35 promoter element. As a result, open promoter complex formation on the -10/-35 class promoters is inhibited. Inhibition of promoter complex formation on the extended -10 class promoters is less efficient. The p7 protein also abolishes factor-independent transcription termination by X. oryzae RNAP by preventing the release of nascent RNA at terminators. Further physiological and mechanistic studies of this novel transcription factor should provide additional insights into its biological role and the processes of promoter recognition and transcription termination.
12080411	To describe dietary patterns among men and women in the Australian population, and to explore how these varied according to socioeconomic status (SES). A cross-sectional self-report population survey, the 1995 Australian National Nutrition Survey (NNS), was used. Private dwelling sample, covering urban and rural areas across Australia. Data provided by 6680 adults aged 18-64 who participated in the NNS were used in the analyses. Factor analyses were used to analyse data from a Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) completed by participants. Associations between SES and dietary pattens were assessed using ANOVA. Separate factor analyses of the FFQ data for men and women revealed 15 factors, accounting for approximately 50% of the variance in both men's and women's dietary patterns. Several gender and SES differences in food patterns were observed. Lower SES males more frequently consumed 'tropical fruits', 'protein foods', and 'offal and canned fish', while high SES males more often ate 'breakfast cereals' and 'wholemeal bread'. Lower SES females more often ate 'traditional vegetables', 'meat dishes' and 'pasta, rice and other mixed foods', while high SES females more frequently ate 'ethnic vegetables' and 'breakfast cereal/muesli'. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the dietary patterns that underscore gender-specific SES differences in nutrient intakes. Analyses of the type employed in this study will facilitate the development of interventions aimed at modifying overall eating patterns, rather than specific components of the diet.
12081027	Laboratory studies utilizing radioisotopic techniques were conducted to determine the adsorption, desorption, and mobility of endosulfan (6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxanthiepin3-oxide) and methamidophos (O,S-dimethyl phosphorothioate) in sandy loam and clay soils of the Cameron Highlands and the Muda rice-growing area, respectively. High Freundlich adsorption distribution coefficients [Kads(f)] for endosulfan (6.74 and 18.75) and low values for methamidophos (0.40 and 0.98) were obtained in the sandy loam and clay soils, respectively. The observed Koc values for endosulfan were 350.85 (sandy loam) and 1143.19 (clay) while Koc values of 20.92 (sandy loam) and 59.63 (clay) were obtained for methamidophos. Log Kow of 0.40 and 1.25 were calculated for endosulfan as well as -1.96 and -1.21 for methamidophos in the sandy loam and clay soils, respectively. Desorption was common to both pesticides but the desorption capacity of methamidophos from each soil type far exceeded that of endosulfan. Soil thin layer chromatography (TLC) and column studies showed that while methamidophos was very mobile in both soils, endosulfan displayed zero mobility in clay soil.
12081375	Using a genomic clone encoding a rice lipid transfer protein, LTP1, we analysed the activity of the 5' region of the Ltp1 gene in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) during plant development and under pathogen attack. The -1176/+13, -556/+13 and -284/+13 regions of the promoter were fused upstream from the uidA reporter gene and nos 3' polyadenylation signal, resulting in the pdelta1176Gus, pdelta556Gus and pdelta284Gus constructs which were transferred to rice by microprojectile bombardment. Histochemical and fluorometric GUS assays and in situ detection of uidA transcripts in transgenic homozygous lines harbouring the pdelta1176Gus construct demonstrated that the Ltp1 promoter is preferentially active in aerial vegetative and reproductive organs and that both specificity and level of expression are regulated during organ development. In leaf sheath, GUS activity which is initially strictly localized in the epidermis of growing tissue, becomes restricted to the vascular system in mature tissues. In expanded leaf blade, expression of the uidA gene was restricted to the cutting level suggesting inducibility by wounding. Strong activity was detected in lemma and palea, sterile glumes, and immature anther walls and microspores but not in female reproductive organs. No GUS activity was detected during seed embryo maturation whereas the uidA gene was strongly expressed at early stages of somatic embryogenesis in scutellum tissue. The Ltp1 transcripts were found to strongly accumulate in response to inoculation with the fungal agent of the blast disease, Magnaporthe grisea, in two rice cultivars exhibiting compatible or incompatible host-pathogen interactions. Analysis of pdelta1176Gus leaf samples inoculated with the blast fungus demonstrated that the Ltp1 promoter is induced in all cell types of tissues surrounding the lesion and notably in stomata guard cells. In plants harbouring the Ltp1 promoter deletion construct pdelta556Gus, activity was solely detected in the vascular system of mature leaves whereas no uidA gene expression was observed in pdelta284Gus plants. These observations are consistent with the proposed role of LTP1 in strenghtening of structural barriers and organ protection against mechanical disruption and pathogen attack.
12081533	A search for growth inhibitors in rice root exudates was undertaken in order to clarify the allelopathic system in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Rice seedlings inhibited the growth of cress (Lepidium sativum L.) and lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) seedlings when the cress and lettuce were grown with rice seedlings. The putative compound causing the inhibitory effect of rice seedlings was isolated from their culture solution, and the chemical structure of the inhibitor was determined by spectral data as momilactone B. Momilactone B inhibited the growth of cress and lettuce seedlings at concentrations greater than 3 and 30 microM, respectively. The concentration of momilactone B was 3.4 and 1.1 nmol per seedling in the culture solutions of husked and non-husked rice seedlings, respectively. These results suggest that rice seedlings may release momilactone B into the environment and the stress caused by the husk-treatment may increase the amount of momilactone B released. Thus, momilactone B may play an important role in rice allelopathy.
12081549	The objective of the present study was to examine for the various biological activities for feed additives of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and fermented rice bran. The feed additives (100 g of each: YE, brewery yeast; PM, mixture of YE and SF; SF, fermented rice bran) were decocted with 2 l water at 100 degrees C to a half volume. The hot-water extract of PM was found to increase the stimulation of the macrophage activation (2.0-fold) and the intestinal immune modulating activity (1.8-fold), compared with those of control. When the hot-water extracts of PM, SF and YE were fed to the rats for 8 d (1 g kg-1 d-1), PM and SF showed the more effective anti-stress effect on spleen, thyroid and thymus gland. The hot-water extract of PM can have a significant impact on strengthening the living body's immune system and proliferating anti-stress activities with relation to enhance immunity.
12082093	Dynamitin, a subunit of the microtubule-dependent motor complex, was implicated in cell adhesion by binding to MacMARCKS (Macrophage-enriched myristoylated alanine-rice C kinase substrate). However, how dynamitin is involved in cell adhesion is unclear despite the fact that both MacMARCKS and microtubules regulate beta(2) integrin activation. We report that dynamitin regulates beta(2) integrin avidity toward iC3b by modulating the lateral mobility of beta(2) integrin molecules. Using the single particle tracking method, we found that integrin molecular mobility in cells expressing the fusion protein CFP (cyan fluorescent protein)-dynamitin or CFP-MB (the MacMARCKS binding domain peptide of dynamitin) increased 6-fold over the control cells, suggesting that disturbing dynamitin function dramatically altered the cytoskeletal constraint on beta(2) integrin molecules. Further mechanistic studies revealed that overexpression of dynamitin stimulated the phosphorylation of endogenous MacMARCKS protein, which lead to the enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin. This effect of dynamitin correlates with the observation that higher concentration of PKC inhibitor is required to block beta(2) integrin mobility in dynamitin-expressing cells. Although dynamitin acts at the point of MacMARCKS phosphorylation, it is upstream of RhoA, because its effect was blocked by RhoA inhibitor. Thus, we conclude that dynamitin is a part of the cytoskeletal constraint that locks beta(2) integrin in the inactive form.
12083334	This report describes isolation of virus particles from plants of rice, maize, wheat and sorghum with symptoms of dwarfing collected from two provinces of China, purification of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) from the virus particles, and synthesis of full-length cDNAs of genome segments 9 (S9) and 10 (S10) by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Sequence analysis showed that the S9 sequences of the Chinese isolates and a Japanese rice black-streaked disease virus (RBSDV) isolate were very similar (89.1-89.6% homology at nucleotide level and 92.3-92.9% and 95.8-98.6% homology at amino acid level for ORF1 and ORF2, respectively). Analogical similarity was found also for the S10 sequences of the isolates under comparison: 93.0-95.4% homology at nucleotide level and 96.2-97.0% homology at amino acid level. However, there was a relatively lower similarity for S9 and S10 segments ofthe Chinese isolates and an Italian maize rough dwarf virus (MRDV) isolate. The phylogenetic analysis indicated that the Chinese isolates that infect rice, maize, wheat and sorghum and cause similar symptoms could represent the same virus species, RBSDV.
12083370	Hyperlipidemia is a well-known risk factor for atherosclerosis and statins are widely used to treat patients with elevated levels of lipids in their plasma. Notwithstanding the proven benefits of statin drugs on both primary and secondary prevention of heart disease, the high cost of statin treatment, in addition to possible side effects such as liver function abnormalities, may limit their widespread use. We conducted a study on a natural product as an alternative to statin treatment. Cholestin, a dietary supplement, is prepared from rice fermented with red yeast (Monascus purpureus), which has been shown to significantly decrease total cholesterol levels in hyperlipidemic subjects. Our objective was to determine the cellular effect of Cholestin on cholesterol synthesis in human hepatic cells (HepG2) and the mechanism by which it caused a change in lipid metabolism. Cholestin had a direct inhibitory effect on HMG-CoA reductase activity (78-69% of control). Cholesterol levels in HepG2 cells treated with Cholestin (25-100 microg/mL) were significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner (81-45% of control, respectively). This reduction was associated with decreased synthesis and secretion of both unesterified cholesterol (54-31 and 33-14% of control, respectively) and cholesteryl ester (18-6 and 37-19% of control, respectively). These results indicate that one of the anti-hyperlipidemic actions of Cholestin is a consequence of an inhibitory effect on cholesterol biosynthesis in hepatic cells and provide the first documentation of a biomolecular action of red yeast rice.
12083840	Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is icosahedral in morphology and known to swell in vitro, but the biological function of swollen particles remains unknown. Anion-exchange chromatography was used to identify three markedly stable forms of RYMV particles from infected plants: (1) an unstable swollen form lacking Ca2+ and dependent upon basic pH; (2) a more stable transitional form lacking Ca2+ but dependent upon acidic pH; and (3) a pH-independent, stable, compact form containing Ca2+. Particle stability increased over the time course of infection in rice plants: transitional and swollen forms were abundant during early infection (2 weeks postinfection), whereas compact forms increased during later stages of infection. Electron microscopy of infected tissue revealed virus particles in vacuoles of xylem parenchyma and mesophyll cells early in the time course of infection and suggested that vacuoles and other vesicles were the major storage compartments for virus particles. We propose a model in which virus maturation is associated with the virus accumulation in vacuoles. In this acidic compartment, virus particles may bind Ca2+ to produce a highly stable, compact form of the virus. The localization of subcellular RYMV isoforms in infected cells and the corresponding biological properties of the virus are discussed.
12083857	Further NIRS calibrations were developed for the accurate and fast prediction of the total contents of methionine, cystine, lysine, threonine, tryptophan, and other essential amino acids, protein, and moisture in the most important cereals and brans or middlings for animal feed production. More than 1100 samples of global origin collected over five years were analyzed for amino acids following the Official Methods of the United States and European Union. Detailed data and graphics are given to characterize the obtained calibration equations. NIRS was validated with 98 independent samples for wheat and 78 samples for corn and compared to amino acid predictions using linear crude protein regression equations. With a few exceptions, validation showed that 70-98% of the amino acid variance in the samples could be explained using NIRS. Especially for lysine and methionine, the most limiting amino acids for farm animals, NIRS can predict contents in cereals much better than crude protein regressions. Through low cost and high speed of analysis NIRS enables the amino acid analysis of many samples in order to improve the accuracy of feed formulation and obtain better quality and lower production costs.
12083873	Red yeast rice (angkak, red koji) obtained as cultures of Monascus purpureus on rice was extracted and analyzed by HPLC. In addition to the known red, orange, and yellow pigments and the mycotoxin citrinin, a new Monascus metabolite was detected. It is present in the original red yeast rice and formed in higher amounts when red yeast rice is heated. High-resolution mass spectrometry indicated the molecular formula C(15)H(12)O(4). The chemical structure was elucidated by analysis of NMR data. The new compound, named monascodilone, is characterized by a propenyl group on a pyrone ring, an aromatic ring, and a gamma-lactone group.
1208413	The amino acid composition of raw protein of ten regional varieties of rice harvested in 1972 and 1973 was investigated. The amino acid composition was measured in the Hd-1200e analyzer. Coefficients of variations in the content of protein and invididual amino acids were determined in relation to the rice variety. Consistent correlation between the lysine concentration in the protein and the protein content in the grain was established. The influence of climatic conditions on the protein accumulation in the rice grain was noted.
12087189	Repetitive genomic sequences might have various structural features and properties distinct from those of the known transposable elements (TE). Here, the content and properties of the repetitive sequences present in a 200-kb region around the rice waxy locus were analyzed using the available rice genomic database. In our previous Southern blotting analysis, 70% of the segments in this region showed smeared patterns, but according to the present database analysis, the proportion of repetitive sequences in this region was only 15%. The repetitive segments in this 200-kb region comprised 75 repetitive sequences that we classified into 46 subfamilies: 21 subfamilies were known TEs or repetitive sequences and 25 subfamilies consisted of newly identified TEs or novel types of repetitive sequences. The region contains no long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposable elements, but miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) constituted a major class among the elements identified. These MITEs showed remarkable structural divergence: 12 elements were found to be new members of known MITE superfamilies, while five elements had novel terminal structures, and did not belong to any known TE families. Interestingly, about 10% of the repetitive sequences, including virus-like sequences did not have any of the usual characteristics of TEs, suggesting that a certain proportion of repetitive sequences that might not share the transpositional mechanisms of known elements are dispersed in the compact rice genome.
12087190	Mitochondrial alternative oxidase (AOX) is the terminal oxidase responsible for cyanide-insensitive and salicylhydroxamic acid-sensitive respiration. We have isolated two non-homoeologous genes (Waox1a and Waox1c) encoding AOX proteins from common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). These two genes were orthologous to rice AOX1a and AOX1c, and their exon/intron structure was conserved, as it is in most other plant AOX genes. Southern blot analysis indicated that both Waox1a and Waox1c were located in at least three homoeologous loci and that additional AOX genes with lower homology were present in the genome of common wheat. The Waox1a and Waox1c loci were respectively assigned to the homoeologous group 2 and 6 chromosomes. The steady-state level of Waox1a and Waox1c transcripts increased under cold stress, while only that of Waox1a was increased by cyanide treatment.
12088543
12090258	The purpose of this work was to evaluate the performance of ozonation as a technique to treat textile effluents. This performance evaluation was made using physico-chemical parameters and phytotoxic endpoints (i.e. biomass growth enzyme activities - catalase and peroxidase). After ozonation, the color absorbance (523 nm) was reduced by 80.9% and the pH decreased from 10.9 to approximately 7.5 while COD reduction reached nearly 87%. Phytotoxicity tests carried out in solution with three plant species (i.e. soybean, rice and wheat) allowed us to compare toxicity data of both, raw and ozonated effluents. The biomass (fresh weight) of the 3 plant species clearly decreases as a function of the increase in raw effluent concentration with LOEC values of 100% for rice and wheat, and 50% for soybean. Activities of catalase and peroxidase in the 3 plant species exposed to the raw textile effluent were significantly different from plant controls. The LOEC values for catalase were 6.2% (in wheat and soybean plants), and 25% (in rice plants), while for peroxidase the LOEC values were 6.2% (in rice plants), 25% (in soybean plants), and 50% (in wheat plants). Reduction in the phytotoxicity of textile effluent samples after ozonation is likely due to the elimination of the toxic organic fraction oxidized during this process. Regarding endpoint sensitivity, our results showed that biomass endpoint was less sensitive than biochemical endpoint. In conclusion, ozonation was relatively effective in reducing physico-chemical parameters and phytotoxic effects of textile effluents. Plant enzyme assays used in this study proved to be a sensitive tool in order to determine the toxicity of industrial effluents and may be used to evaluate efficiency of established (or emergent) wastewater treatment technology.
12091716	In many eukaryotic organisms, homeobox genes are important regulators that specify the cell fate and body plan in early embryogenesis. In this study, a gene designated OSTF1 (Oryza sativa transcription factor 1) encoding a homeodomain protein in rice was isolated and characterized. The encoded OSTF1, although sharing only approximately 51% sequence identity with other HD-GL2 members, contains four characteristic motifs (an N-terminal acidic region, a homeodomain, a truncated leucine zipper, and a START domain). OSTF1 was detected as a single copy gene in rice. The transcripts were absent in young panicle or mature spikelet before anthesis, but appeared very early in the pollinated grain with a transient profile. In vegetative tissues examined, expression was only detectable in root. In situ hybridization analysis on developing grains revealed that OSTF1 was strongly and uniformly expressed in the embryo at the globular stage and preferentially localized to the protoderm at 3-6 d after pollination. Expression was also detectable in the integument and throughout the endosperm. Although OSTF1 is not closely related to the remaining HD-GL2 members in sequences, this gene exhibits an analogous epidermis-preferential expression pattern.
12091719	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) shows the highest tolerance to Al toxicity among small-grain cereal crops, however, the mechanisms and genetics responsible for its high Al tolerance are not yet well understood. We investigated the response of rice to Al stress using the japonica variety Koshihikari in comparison to the indica variety Kasalath. Koshihikari showed higher tolerance at various Al concentrations than Kasalath. The Al content in root apexes was less in Koshihikari than in Kasalath, suggesting that exclusion mechanisms rather than internal detoxification are acting in Koshihikari. Al-induced secretion of citrate was observed in both Koshihikari and Kasalath, however, it is unlikely to be the mechanism for Al tolerance because there was no significant difference in the amount of citrate secreted between Koshihikari and Kasalath. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for Al tolerance were mapped in a population of 183 backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a cross of Koshihikari and Kasalath. Three putative QTLs controlling Al tolerance were detected on chromosomes 1, 2 and 6. Kasalath QTL alleles on chromosome 1 and 2 reduced Al tolerance but increased tolerance on chromosome 6. The three QTLs explained about 27% of the phenotypic variation in Al tolerance. The existence of QTLs for Al tolerance was confirmed in substitution lines for corresponding chromosomal segments.
12091721	The genes for two types of rice phloem protein (RPP16 and RPP17) were isolated and characterized. Conservation of five exon sizes as well as splicing positions between the two genes suggest that either RPP16 or RPP17 is a resultant of gene duplication. By protein blot analysis, RPP16 and RPP17 proteins were specifically detected in soluble and insoluble fractions of a crude extract of rice plants, respectively, suggesting that these proteins play different roles in individual cells. The expression of Rpp16 and Rpp17 was monitored by the beta-glucuronidase (gusA) reporter-gene method. Rpp16-gusA and Rpp17-gusA were expressed preferentially in the phloem tissues from different parts of the plant, but almost no GUS staining was observed in the rest of the tissues. In roots of both constructs, interestingly, stronger GUS-accumulation was detected in younger vascular tissues than in aged vascular tissues. In situ hybridization also showed that Rpp17 was more strongly expressed in vascular tissues of tiller buds. These results suggest that transcript of these genes was more abundant in young tissues. The presence of two copies of the gene in higher plants, from a common origin, which have different protein characteristics, indicates that evolutionary diversification might have occurred in the gene function.
12092417	We investigated simultaneous analytical methods for pesticide residues in large numbers of agricultural products samples. Extraction of each sample with acetonitrile was followed by a salting-out step using a graduated cylinder. The test solution was cleaned up with gel permeation chromatography (GPC), which separated the pesticide eluate into 2 fractions, and then with a tandem mini-column. Analysis was done with a dual-column GC equipped with a dual NPD and FPD (S mode) detector. Use of the Siltek-deactivated liner, guard column, and Y connector, and Silcosteel-treated NPD jet was effective for preventing the breakdown of sulfur-containing pesticides. Recoveries of 87 nitrogen-containing and sulfur-containing pesticides from fortified spinach, tomato, apple, strawberry and brown rice, ranged from 71 to 127% with RSD values of 1-24%, except for recoveries of aldicarb, amitraz, ethiofencarb, imazalil, propamocarb and triflumizole. Detection limits of pesticides were very good (0.3-5 ppb (NPD) and 2-20 ppb (FPD)) for routine analysis of pesticide residues in foods. Surveillance of pesticides in agricultural products was carried out by using the present method. From 22 out of 33 samples, 21 pesticides (43 in total) were detected. The results indicated that the present method can be applied as an efficient and reliable means for monitoring pesticide residues in agricultural products.
12092418	The survival of Vibrio parahaemolyticus serovar O3:K6 strains and other serovars in the presence of acetic, citric and hydrochloric acids were studied. There were no differences in resistance to these acids between serovar O3:K6 and the other serovars. At pH 5.6, citric acid was more effective in reducing the number of viable cells of V. parahaemolyticus than acetic acid. However, at pH 4.5, acetic acid was more effective than citric acid. The number of viable cells decreased quickly in the presence of rice vinegar or wine vinegar at pH 4.0.
12092420	A liquid chromatographic (LC) method with diode array detection (DAD) was developed for screening of 10 sulfonyl urea herbicide residues in unpolished rice. The investigated herbicides were azimsulfuron, bensulfuron-methyl, chlorimuron-ethyl, chlorsulfuron, ethoxysulfuron, flazasulfuron, imazosulfuron, metsulfuron-methyl, pyrazosulfuron-ethyl and tribenuron-methyl. Acetonitrile-water (2:1) extracts of rice samples were cleaned up with solid-phase extraction cartridges (octadecylsilane-bonded silica (ODS) and graphitized carbon black (GCB)). Three fractions of the GCB eluate were taken for analysis using 3 separate injections in order to avoid interference in LC-DAD analysis and to reduce analyte coelution problems. Recoveries from rice samples fortified with the 10 herbicides at 0.05 and 0.2 microgram/g ranged from 46.6 to 119.6%, and coefficients of variation were 3.1-12.6%. The quantitation limits were 0.01-0.02 microgram/g.
12092832	Two cDNA clones for jasmonic acid (JA)-responsive genes, RRJ1 and RRJ2, were isolated by differential screening from suspension-cultured rice cells treated with JA for 2 h. The putative RRJ1 protein is completely identical to that of a putative rice cystathionine gamma-lyase, while the putative RRJ2 protein is highly similar in sequence to a rice pyruvate decarboxylase, PDC1.
12092839	Cytosolic and membrane-associated proteins prepared from rice cells were separated and compared by two different 2D-PAGE methods, isoelectric focusing (IEF)/SDS-PAGE and nonequilibrium pH gradient electrophoresis (NEPHGE)/SDS-PAGE. Although IEF/SDS-PAGE of the cytosolic proteins showed sufficient resolution, some mitochondrial and basic microsomal membrane-associated proteins were weakly or hardly detectable on the 2D gel. High-quality and -quantity separation of the organelle membrane-associated proteins was accomplished by NEPHGE/SDS-PAGE, the advantage of this method being more critical in tightly membrane-bound proteins that were unwashable with NaCl. These results indicate that NEPHGE/SDS-PAGE is a useful tool for the proteomic analysis of rice membrane-associated proteins.
12093379	Draft genome sequences have been reported for two subspecies of rice. The drafts include the sequences of an estimated 99% of all rice genes and provide major advances in our understanding of the content and complexity of cereal genomes in general and the rice genome in particular.
12094793	Two lignocellulosic agricultural waste materials (LCM), sugarcane bagasse (BG) and rice hull (RH), were converted into weak-base anion exchanger and evaluated for their exchanger capacity for nitrate. Pure cellulose (PC) and pure alkaline lignin (PL) were also used as reference materials to elucidate possible reactivity in LCM. Epoxy and amino groups were introduced into BG, RH, PC and PL substrates after the reaction with epichlorohydrin and dimethylamine in the presence of pyridine and an organic solvent N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF). Amino group incorporation into cellulose decreased with the presence of water in the reaction mixture and increased with the reaction time and presence of a catalyst (pyridine). The highest maximum nitrate exchange capacity (Qmax) and yields of the prepared exchangers was obtained from PL (1.8 mmol g(-1) and 412.5%), followed by BG (1.41 mmol g(-1) and 300%), PC (1.34 mmol g(-1) and 166%) and RH (1.32 mmol g(-1) and 180%). The proposed synthetic procedure was effective in modifying PL, PC and LCM chemically resulting in a higher yield and nitrate removal capacity.
12096107	Rice cDNA and genomic libraries were screened in order to clone an Fe(II) transporter gene. A cDNA clone highly homologous to the Arabidopsis Fe(II) transporter gene IRT1 was isolated from Fe-deficient rice roots. The cDNA clone was named OsIRT1. A genomic clone corresponding to the cDNA was also obtained, sequenced and analysed. When expressed in yeast cells, OsIRT1 cDNA reversed the growth defects of the yeast iron-uptake mutant. Northern blot analysis revealed that OsIRT1 mRNA was predominantly expressed in roots and was induced by Fe- and Cu-deficiency. This suggests that OsIRT1 is a functional metal transporter for iron, and is actively engaged in Fe uptake from soils, especially under limiting conditions.
12096630	A modified cry1Ac gene was generated by fusing with Lys-Asp-Glu-Lue (KDEL), an endoplasmic reticulum retention signal at the 3'-ends, with signal peptide coding sequence of Soybean kunitz trypsin inhibitor (SKTI) at the 5'-ends. Vector containing the modified cry1Ac gene coding region flanked by the corn ubiquitin 1 promoter and the nopaline synthase gene (nos) terminator with Hygromycin Phosphotransferase (hpt) gene as a plant selection marker was constructed. The modified cry1Ac gene in which toxic protein targeted to endoplasmic retention was successfully transferred into Minghui 81 (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica), an elite restoring line of commercial CMS indica hybrid rice, through particle bombardment and obtained fertile transformants. Homozygous transgenic rice lines were obtained in the third generation exploiting self-seed set reproduction and HygromycinB selection. These transgenic lines were confirmed with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification, Southern blotting and ELISA detection. Pest insect-resistant bioassay indicated that some of the homozygous cry1Ac-transgenic rice plants of T2 progeny showed high-level resistance against striped stem borer (Chilo suppressalis) at field trials.
12096816	The genomes of grasses are very different in terms of size, ploidy level and chromosome number. Despite these significant differences, it was found by comparative mapping that the linear order (colinearity) of genetic markers and genes is very well conserved between different grass genomes. The potential of such conservation has been exploited in several directions, e.g. in defining rice as a model genome for grasses and in designing better strategies for positional cloning in large genomes. Recently, the development of large insert libraries in species such as maize, rice, barley and diploid wheat has allowed the study of large stretches of DNA sequence and has provided insight into gene organization in grasses. It was found that genes are not distributed randomly along the chromosomes and that there are clusters of high gene density in species with large genomes. Comparative analysis performed at the DNA sequence level has demonstrated that colinearity between the grass genomes is retained at the molecular level (microcolinearity) in most cases. However, detailed analysis has also revealed a number of exceptions to microcolinearity, which have given insight into mechanisms that are involved in grass-genome evolution. In some cases, the use of rice as a model to support gene isolation from other grass genomes will be complicated by local rearrangements. In this Botanical Briefing, we present recent progress and future prospects of comparative genomics in grasses.
12097351	We describe a computer-based method that selects representative clones for full-length sequencing in a full-length cDNA project. Our method classifies end sequences using two kinds of criteria, grouping, and clustering. Grouping places together variant cDNAs, family genes, and cDNAs with sequencing errors. Clustering separates those cDNA clones into distinct clusters. The full-length sequences of the clones selected by grouping are determined preferentially, and then the sequences selected by clustering are determined. Grouping reduced the number of rice cDNA clones for full-length sequencing to 21% and mouse cDNA clones to 25%. Rice full-length sequences selected by grouping showed a 1.07-fold redundancy. Mouse full-length sequences showed a 1.04-fold redundancy, which can be reduced by approximately 30% from the selection using our previous method. To estimate the coverage of unique genes, we used FANTOM (Functional Annotation of RIKEN Mouse cDNA Clones) clusters (). Grouping covered almost all unique genes (93% of FANTOM clusters), and clustering covered all genes. Therefore, our method is useful for the selection of appropriate representative clones for full-length sequencing, thereby greatly reducing the cost, labor, and time necessary for this process.
12098783	Three mitochondrial tRNA(Trp)s genes from Oryza sativa, Homo sapiens and Saccharomyces serevisea were constructed. In vitro transcripts of these mitochondrial tRNA(Trp)s genes were able to be tryptophanylated by Bacillus subtilis tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (TrpRS), but could not be catalyzed by TrpRS from rat liver. Kinetic assay showed that B. subtilis TrpRS had half the binding capacity for mitochondrial tRNA(Trp)s than for wild type tRNA(Trp). While in the catalytic efficiency, the k(cat)/K(m) value of mitochondrial tRNA(Trp)s from O.sativa and S.serevisea by B.subtilis enzyme was reduced by 400-fold and 1 200-fold respectively as that of B.subtilis tRNA(Trp). Experimental results suggested that mitochondrial tRNA(Trp)s implied a eubacterial origin.
12099271	A DNA clone containing the 5' part of the adenylate kinase (AK) gene was isolated from a rice genomic library, and its nucleotide sequence was determined. This clone consists of 5' upstream, five exons and four introns of the AK gene. All of the determined donor and receptor sites contained 'GT' and 'AG' consensus splice sequences. Transgenic tobacco plants harbouring a chimeric gene consisting of the 5' upstream sequence of the AK gene fused with the gene encoding phosphinothricin acetyl transferase were generated. They showed tolerance to glufosinate to a level four times higher than its commercial dose.
12099465	Staple grains such as rice, wheat and maize consumed by different societal groups differ greatly in their concentrations and bioavailability of the cadmium (Cd) antagonists, zinc (Zn), iron (Fe), and calcium (Ca). We hypothesized thatthe low nutritional status of rice consumers, which results from an inadequate supply of these minerals from rice, could contribute significantly to a higher apparent susceptibility to soil Cd contamination from rice than the higher nutritional status of those who consume other grains with higher mineral content. To test this hypothesis, a 2 x 2 x 2 factorial study was conducted. Rats were fed diets with adequate or marginal amounts of dietary Zn, Fe, or Ca. The basal diets contained 40% unenriched, milled rice fortified with 0.62 mg of Cd/kg as CdCl2 (0.25 mg of Cd/kg diet). Rat consumed the diets for 5 weeks and then were fed 1 g of a similar diet containing 10(9)Cd-labeled rice. After 2 weeks, whole-body (WB) retention of 109Cd was determine. Rats then were killed, and the organs were removed for total Cd determinations. Rats fed marginal concentrations of dietary Zn had slightly but significantly more WB retention of 109Cd than controls; however, rats fed marginal Fe or Ca had as much as 3-fold higher retention of the label. Rats fed marginal amounts of Zn, Fe, and Ca combined retained as much as 8 times more 109Cd than rats fed adequate minerals. The effects on Cd concentrations in liver and kidney were similar to the effects on 109Cd retention. These results support the hypothesis that populations exposed to dietary sources of Cd and subsisting on marginal mineral intakes could be at greater risk than well-nourished populations exposed to similar amounts of dietary Cd. Thus, different food crops can cause unequal Cd risk at equal Cd concentration if diets containing the food are not balanced to provide adequate interacting mineral concentrations.
12100481	It is well documented that transgenes with inverted repeats can efficiently trigger post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS), presumably via a double stranded RNA induced by complementary sequences in their transcripts. We show here that transgenes with intrinsic direct repeats can also induce PTGS at a very high frequency (80-100%). A transgene with three or four repeats induced PTGS in almost 100% of the primary transformants, regardless of whether a strong (enhanced 35S promoter) or a relatively weak (chlorophyll a/b binding protein promoter) promoter was used. The PTGS induced by three or four repeats is consistently inherited in subsequent generations, and can inactivate homologous genes in trans. Based on the high frequency and consistent heritability, we propose that the intrinsic direct repeat within a transgene may act as a primary determinant of PTGS referred to as direct repeat-induced PTGS (driPTGS). Silencing occurred in all five genes, in this and two previous reports, suggesting that driPTGS might be a universal gene silencing mechanism both in dicotyledonous tobacco plants and monocotyledonous rice cells. In addition, driPTGS may help dissect the gene silencing mechanism and generate silenced phenotypes useful for research and plant biotechnology products.
12100484	Plant chromosomes terminate in telomeres as in other eukaryotes. Telomeres are vital to genome stability and their malfunctioning is lethal. One of the core components of the telomere complex is telomerase. The enzyme activity depends on RNA (TER) and reverse transcriptase (TERT) subunits. We describe here the isolation, sequencing and characterization of the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit from the monocot plant Oryza sativa L. (OsTERT). A single copy of this gene is present in the rice genome. The protein predicted from the OsTERT sequence has all the signature motifs of the TERT family members. Our data indicate that rice telomerase activity is developmentally regulated and is high in in vitro tissue and cell culture. However, steady-state transcript levels of the TERT gene do not seem to correlate with enzyme activity. Northern and RT-PCR analyses of the OsTERT gene transcript profile show multiple differentially spliced transcripts in both telomerase-positive and telomerase-negative tissues. Based on quantitative analysis of these transcripts, we speculate that the overall balance between the quantities of particular alternatively spliced transcripts may determine whether the TERT protein(s) is active or not. The diversity of splicing variants detected suggests that, as recently discovered for mammalian TERT proteins, rice TERT protein variants may perform functions other than telomere maintenance.
12100486	Two mutant lines of barley, Risø 17 and Notch-2, were found to accumulate phytoglycogen in the grain. Like the sugary mutants of maize and rice, these phytoglycogen-accumulating mutants of barley lack isoamylase activity in the developing endosperm. The mutants were shown to be allelic, and to have lesions in the isoamylase gene, isa1 that account for the absence of this enzyme. As well as causing a reduction in endosperm starch content, the mutations have a profound effect on the structure, number and timing of initiation of starch granules. There are no normal A-type or B-type granules in the mutants. The mutants have a greater number of starch granules per plastid than the wild-type and, particularly in Risø 17, this leads to the appearance of compound starch granules. These results suggest that, as well as suppressing phytoglycogen synthesis, isoamylase in the wild-type endosperm plays a role in determining the number, and hence the form, of starch granules.
12100593	The effects of different carbon and nitrogen sources on phytase production by Mitsuokella jalaludinii were evaluated and the optimization of rice bran (RB) and soybean milk (SM) concentrations in the medium for phytase production was also determined. Replacement of glucose, cellobiose and starch in MF1 medium by RB or palm kernel cake and replacement of trypticase peptone and yeast extract in the medium by SM or enzymatic digested soybean milk significantly increased the phytase production by M. jalaludinii. The optimal concentrations of RB and SM in the medium for phytase production were 15% RB and 20% SM or 20% RB and 10% SM or 20% RB and 20% SM and the phytase activities in the media were 12.53, 12.93 and 12.75 U g-1 culture broth, respectively. The high production of phytase by M. jalaludinii warrants further research to increase its yield by genetic manipulation for commercial application.
12101121	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an extensive class of ~22-nucleotide noncoding RNAs thought to regulate gene expression in metazoans. We find that miRNAs are also present in plants, indicating that this class of noncoding RNA arose early in eukaryotic evolution. In this paper 16 Arabidopsis miRNAs are described, many of which have differential expression patterns in development. Eight are absolutely conserved in the rice genome. The plant miRNA loci potentially encode stem-loop precursors similar to those processed by Dicer (a ribonuclease III) in animals. Mutation of an Arabidopsis Dicer homolog, CARPEL FACTORY, prevents the accumulation of miRNAs, showing that similar mechanisms direct miRNA processing in plants and animals. The previously described roles of CARPEL FACTORY in the development of Arabidopsis embryos, leaves, and floral meristems suggest that the miRNAs could play regulatory roles in the development of plants as well as animals.
12102523	We examined the relationship between morphological characteristics of anthers and fertility in japonica rice cultivars subjected to high temperature (37.5(26 degrees C day/night) at flowering. Percentage fertility was negatively correlated with the number of cell layers that separated the anther locule from the lacuna that formed between the septum and the stomium. The cell layers consisted of the remaining septum and degraded tapetum, and serve to keep the adjacent two locules closed. Anther dehiscence therefore requires the rupture of the cell layers. We conclude that the tight closure of the locules by the cell layers delayed locule opening, and decreased fertility at high temperatures.
12102720	A peptide, possessing a molecular mass of 5 kDa and demonstrating remarkable sequence homology to the cowpea 10 kDa protein precursor and garden pea disease resistance response protein, was isolated from rice bean seeds. The peptide was adsorbed on CM-Sepharose and Affi-gel blue gel. It inhibited mycelial growth in the fungi Botrytis cinerea, Fusarium oxysporum, Rhizoctonia solani and Mycosphaerella arachidicola. It stimulated incorporation of methyl [3H] thymidine into mouse splenocytes, inhibited the activity of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 reverse transcriptase and suppressed translation by rabbit reticulocyte lysate.
121069	A method has been developed for the detection of staphylococcal enterotoxin A in the boiled rice extract. The procedure utilized was the batch adsorption of enterotoxin from the cell-free culture supernatant by CG-50 ion exchange resin at pH 5.6. The enterotoxin was eluted by various concentrations of elution solution with different pH values. The lyophilized eluate was dissolved in Phosphate Buffer Saline (PBS) solution and analyzed with a quantitative double diffusion method. The desorption of enterotoxin from ion exchange resin appeared to be less effective by increasing the concentration of elution solution than by elevating the pH value of elution solution. The pH below 6.2 seemed to lose the ability to elute the enterotoxin from ion exchanger but enough to elimate non-specific extra proteins. The quantitative double diffusion method was able to detect enterotoxin in food with approximation in quantitation.
12109880	Diversity of actinomycetes and their antifungal activities against some plant pathogenic fungi were examined in various vegetative soils from 14 different sites in the western part of Korea. Actinomycete counts ranged from 1.17 x 10(6) to 4.20 x 10(6) cfu x g(-1) dried soil. A total of 1510 actinomycetes were isolated from the soil samples. Streptomyces was predominant in soils with a pH range of 5.1-6.5, 9.1-13.0% moisture, and 9.1-11.0% organic matter. Most Micromonospora, Dactylosporangium, and Streptosporangium were distributed in soils with pH 4.0-5.0, 2.0-9.0% moisture, and 4.0-7.0% organic matter. Actinomadura and nocardioform actinomycetes were abundant in soils with pH 4.0-5.0 and 13.1-20.0% moisture and with 9.1-11.0 and 4.0-7.0% organic matter, respectively. Populations of Streptomyces were predominant in all the soils, but were highest in grassland and lowest in mountain-forest soils. Micromonospora was most abundant in pepper-field soil and nocardioform actinomycetes were highest in rice paddy field soil. Dactylosporangium was predominant in lake-mud sediments and pepper-field soil, Streptosporangium in lake-mud sediments, and Actinomadura in mountain-forest soil. Antifungal actinomycetes were abundant in orchard soil and lake mud. More than 50% of antifungal isolates from most soils were classified as genus Streptomyces. Actinomycete isolates that showed strong antifungal activity against Alternaria mali, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum, and Rhizoctonia solani were predominant in pepper-field soils, whereas those against Magnaporthe grisea and Phytophthora capsici were abundant in radish-field soils.
12110196	A method for determination of a molar-based distribution of A, B and C chains of amylopectin was developed. Labeling with fluorescent 2-aminopyridine was proportional to the number-average degree of polymerization (dp(n)) of the chains in the range of 6-440. Number-average chain lengths (cl(n)) of amylopectins from six different plant sources (rice, maize, wheat, potato, sweet potato and yam) determined by the labeling method were in good agreement with values obtained by determination of non-reducing residues. The molar-based distributions were polymodal (A, B(1) and B(2)+B(3) fractions) and characteristic to botanical sources. Amylopectins from starches with A-crystalline type had higher amount of A+B(1) chains (90-93% by mole) than starches with B-type (68-87%). Molar ratios of (A+B(1))/(B(2)+B(3)) were 8.9-12.9 for the A-type starches and 2.1-6.5 for the B-type starches, suggesting that amylopectins of A-type starches had 1.5-2 times more branches per cluster than B-type. The distributions of C chains, except for amylomaize, showed a broad, asymmetrical profile from dp approximately 10 to approximately 130 with a peak at dp approximately 40 and were very similar among botanical sources, suggesting that the biosynthetic process for C chains is similar in different plant species.
12110200	Chitin prepared from the shells of rice-field crabs (Somanniathelphusa dugasti) was converted into chitosan with a degree of acetylation of 0.21 and then sulfated with chlorosulfonic acid in N,N-dimethylformamide under semi-heterogeneous conditions to give 87% of water-soluble sulfated chitosan with degree of substitution (d.s) of 2.13. 1H NMR revealed the sulfate substitution at C-2, C-3 and C-6. Gel filtration on Sepharose CL-6B of the sulfated chitosan gave three fractions with average molecular weights of 7.1, 3.5, and 1.9 x 10(4). The three sulfated chitosan preparations showed strong anticoagulant activities, with the same mechanism of action observed for standard therapeutic heparin.
12111074	Although MR imaging has been increasingly recognized as a useful tool in the diagnosis of early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and in the assessment of disease activity, these applications have not yet been usually included in the routine management of this condition. Our goal is to review the current role of MRI in the everyday clinical management of patients with RA. The usefulness of MRI in the evaluation of articular and para-articular changes in specific locations, mainly the craniocervical region and the temporomandibular joint, are reviewed. Clinical problems derived from local extra-articular involvement, such as tenosynovitis, "rice-bodies" bursitis, and Baker's cyst rupture, are also described. Finally, we also review the value of MRI in evaluation of some complications of RA such as tendinous rupture, osteonecrosis, stress fracture, and septic arthritis/osteomyelitis.
12111554	To understand the molecular basis of broad-spectrum resistance to rice blast, fine-scale mapping of the two blast resistance (R) genes, Pi9(t) and Pi2(t), was conducted. These two genes were introgressed from different resistance donors, previously reported to confer resistance to many blast isolates in the Philippines, and were mapped to an approximately 10-cM interval on chromosome 6. To further test their resistance spectrum, 43 blast isolates collected from 13 countries were used to inoculate the Pi2(t) and Pi9(t) plants. Pi9(t)-bearing lines were highly resistant to all isolates tested, and lines carrying Pi2(t) were resistant to 36 isolates, confirming the broad-spectrum resistance of these two genes to diverse blast isolates. Three RAPD markers tightly linked to Pi9(t) were identified using the bulk segregant analysis technique. Twelve positive bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones were identified and a BAC contig covering about 100 kb was constructed when the Pi9(t) BAC library was screened with one of the markers. A high-resolution map of Pi9(t) was constructed using BAC ends. The Pi2(t) gene was tightly linked to all of the Pi9(t) markers in 450 F(2) plants. These data suggest that Pi9(t) and Pi2(t) are either allelic or tightly linked in an approximately 100-kb region. The mapping results for Pi9(t) and Pi2(t) provide essential information for the positional cloning of these two important blast resistance genes in rice.
12113455	Using particle bombardment-mediated transformation, a codon-optimized synthetic gene for human lysozyme was introduced into the calli of rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar Taipei 309. The expression levels of recombinant human lysozyme in the transformed rice suspension cell culture approached approximately 4% of total soluble protein. Recombinant human lysozyme was purified to greater than 95% homogeneity using a two-step chromatography process. Amino acid sequencing verified that the N-terminus of the mature recombinant human lysozyme was identical to native human lysozyme. This indicates that the rice RAmy3D signal peptide was correctly cleaved off from the human lysozyme preprotein by endogenous rice signal peptidase. Recombinant human lysozyme was found to have the same molecular mass, isoelectric point and specific activity as native human lysozyme. The bactericidal activity of recombinant human lysozyme was determined by turbidimetric assay using Micrococcus lysodeikticus in 96-well microtiter plates. The bactericidal activity of lysozyme on gram-negative bacteria was examined by adding purified lysozyme to mid-log phase cultures of E. coli strain JM109. In this study, significant bactericidal activity was observed after E. coli cells were exposed to recombinant human lysozyme for 60 min. Both native and recombinant human lysozyme displayed the same thermostability and resistance to degradation by low pH. The potential for using rice-derived lysozyme as an antimicrobial food supplement, particularly for infant formula and baby foods, is discussed.
12114562	Lack of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) seven-transmembrane domain MLO protein confers resistance against the fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). To broaden the basis for MLO structure/function studies, we sequenced additional mlo resistance alleles, two of which confer only partial resistance. Wild-type MLO dampens the cell wall-restricted hydrogen peroxide burst at points of attempted fungal penetration of the epidermal cell wall, and in subtending mesophyll cells, it suppresses a second oxidative burst and cell death. Although the Bgh-induced cell death in mlo plants is spatially and temporally separated from resistance, we show that the two processes are linked. Uninoculated mutant mlo plants exhibit spontaneous mesophyll cell death that appears to be part of accelerated leaf senescence. Mlo transcript abundance increases in response to Bgh, rice (Oryza sativa) blast, wounding, paraquat treatment, a wheat powdery mildew-derived carbohydrate elicitor, and during leaf senescence. This suggests a broad involvement of Mlo in cell death protection and in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses.
12117228	Attempts were made to promote germination of naturally and artificially aged rice seeds by treating them with cerium nitrate. The germination rate, germination index, and vigor index of aged rice seed were significantly increased by cerium. It was because the treatments of aged rice seed with cerium nitrate enhanced respiratory rate and activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and peroxidase, and decreased superoxide O2- and malondialdehyde contents that plasma membrane permeability was reduced. It was suggested that cerium be used for the seed treatment before sowing.
12121463	Salicylic acid (SA) is one component of a complex signalling pathway that is induced by a number of biotic and abiotic stresses. Exposing seedling radicles to aqueous solutions of 0.5 mM salicylic acid for 24 h before chilling at 2.5 degrees C for 1-4 days reduced the chilling-induced increase in electrolyte leakage from maize and rice leaves, and cucumber hypocotyls, but not from their radicles. The SA treatments that induced chilling tolerance in the aerial portion of the seedlings did not induce chilling tolerance in the radicles, even though the SA treatments were applied to the radicles. A comparison of activity among five antioxidant enzymes showed that SA did not alter enzyme activities in the radicles, but that chilling tolerance induced by SA in the aerial portions of maize and cucumber plants was associated with an increase in the activity of glutathione reductase and guaiacol peroxidase.
12121641	The draft genome sequences from two subspecies of rice are powerful new tools for gene discovery in the grasses. Genome-wide comparisons of gene content and order will also shed new light on evolutionary processes.
12121754	Washed and dried rice husk was coated with 2% polyethylenimine (PEI). Invertase was immobilized on this support through adsorption followed by cross-linking with 2% glutaraldehyde. Immobilized enzyme was reused for the hydrolysis of sucrose without loss in activity. This approach may serve as a simple technique in the future for the covalent immobilization of enzymes on lignocellulosic supports.
12122549	This study examines the relationship between the results of in vitro determinations of carbohydrate digestion rates and the glycemic index. Ten healthy non smoking men, aged between 21 and 24-y-old, were selected to participate in the study. Six different meals with similar levels of carbohydrates were assayed at breakfast in ten subjects and blood samples were obtained at 0, 15, 30, 60 and 120 min to determine glucose levels. The Englyst's enzymatic method was used in the in vitro study. The six meals were based in cereals (rice or spaghetti); legumes (lentil soup and beans with spaghetti); and potato (potato stew with meat and vegetables). The meals showed different glycemic indices: rice and spaghetti based meals had lower values (mean value 31.4 and 42, respectively); the intermediate values corresponded to lentil soup and the bean dish (49.3, and 76.8 respectively) and the higher glycemic index was shown by the potato based meal (82). A significant correlation was observed when the ratio of rapid carbohydrate digestion rate and the lente carbohydrate digestion rate was correlated with the glycemic index of the meals, but not when only the rapid carbohydrate digestion rate was considered. These results demonstrate a useful, simple and inexpensive method to estimate the biological response of high carbohydrate meals.
12125770	The transgene in Agrobacterium-mediated Cry1A(b)-transgenic rice plants has been detected and its chromosomal location determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Eight of the nine transgenic lines tested showed hybridization signals. Signals were located on regions of the chromosome in which fraction length (FL) values varied from 26.2 (near the centromere) to 95.2 (distal regions). No signal was found on regions where the fraction length was less than 26.2, while six of the nine signals detected were located on regions with FL values of 75.3 or over. This demonstrates that Agrobacterium-mediated genes can integrate into multiple sites distributed in different parts of the chromosome, but that distal regions are the preferred sites and regions near the centromeres are colder for T-DNA integration. The donor DNA of the transformation was divided into two parts, labelled separately as probes for two-colour FISH. Results show that the transformed DNA sequences remained linked in the recipient genome. The relationship between integration position and transgene silencing, known as the 'position effect', is discussed.
12125772	To understand soil colonization by a root system, information is needed on the architecture of the root system. In monocotyledons, soil exploration is mainly due to the growth of adventitious primary roots. Primary root emergence in banana was quantified in relation to shoot and corm development. Root emergence kinetics were closely related to the development of aerial organs. Root position at emergence on the corm followed an asymptotic function of corm dry weight, so that the age of each root at a given time could be deduced from its position. Root diameter at emergence was related to the position of the roots on the corm, with younger roots being thicker than older ones. However, root diameters were not constant along a given root, but instead decreased with the distance to the base; roots appear to be conical in their basal and apical parts. Root growth directions at emergence were variable, but a high proportion of the primary roots emerged with a low angle to the horizontal. Further research is needed to evaluate whether these initial trajectories are conserved during root development. Results presented in this study are in good agreement with those reported for other monocotyledons such as maize and rice. They give quantitative information that will facilitate the development of models of root system architecture in banana.
12125824	The Archaeon Methanosarcina mazei and related species are of great ecological importance as they are the only organisms fermenting acetate, methylamines and methanol to methane, carbon dioxide and ammonia (in case of methylamines). Since acetate is the precursor of 60% of the methane produced on earth these organisms contribute significantly to the production of this greenhouse gas, e.g. in rice paddies. The 4,096,345 base pairs circular chromosome of M. mazei is more than twice as large as the genomes of the methanogenic Archaea currently completely sequenced (Bult et al., 1996; Smith et al., 1997). 3,371 open reading frames (ORFs) were identified. Based on currently available sequence data 376 of these ORFs are Methanosarcina-specific and 1,043 ORFs find their closest homologue in the bacterial domain. 544 of these ORFs reach significant similarity values only in the bacterial domain. They include 56 of the 102 transposases, and proteins involved in gluconeogenesis, proline biosynthesis, transport processes, DNA-repair, environmental sensing, gene regulation, and stress response. Striking examples are the occurrence of the bacterial GroEL/GroES chaperone system and the presence of tetrahydrofolate-dependent enzymes. These findings might indicate that lateral gene transfer has played an important evolutionary role in forging the physiology of this metabolically versatile methanogen.
12125876	Occurrence patterns of mosquito immatures and insect predators in containers of various sizes were surveyed in summer (June-July) and autumn (September) of 1998 in a rural area of Saga, southwestern Japan. Mosquitoes were categorized into three types in relation to habitat size. First, Aedes (Stegomyia) spp. and Tripteroides bambusa occurred mostly in small containers of < 0.1 m2. Second, Ae. japonicus and Culex kyotoensis occurred in larger container sizes, compared with the first group. Third, Cx. tritaeniorhynchus and Anopheles sinensis occurred in rice fields in summer and in large containers in the autumn. Predators such as Notonectidae, Anisoptera nymphs, and Chaoborus sp. and a predaceous mosquito Cx. halifaxii occurred mainly in large (> or = 0.1 m2) containers. The mosquitoes of the third group showed similarities with predators in the occurrence of each habitat type, and they frequently co-occurred with predators. The mosquitoes of the first group showed less similarity with predators in habitat type preference, and they rarely co-occurred with predators. The second group mosquitoes showed intermediate patterns of the first and the third groups.
12126243	As a non-invasive modality by which to evaluate the gastric emptying of a solid meal, the 13C-octanoic acid breath test has recently become more widely used. Previously, we reported that ultrasonography was another non-invasive and reliable method for assessing gastric motility. The aim of this study was to compare the reliability of these two methods. Seventeen patients with functional dyspepsia and 10 healthy volunteers were studied. The solid test meal consisted of a scrambled egg labeled with 13C-octanoic acid (100 mg) and served with a bowl of rice and boiled chicken (total 424 kcal). After ingestion of the test meal, all subjects were examined in the sitting position. Ultrasonography images were obtained every 15 min for 3 h. Breath sampling followed the same time schedule as for the ultrasonography, with an additional 3 h of sampling at 30-min intervals. We investigated the half emptying time (T1/2) and the lag phase with both methods. The T1/2 by the ultrasonography method and the breath test were positively correlated (r2 = 0.638); however, there was no significant agreement between the study groups. Both the T1/2 and the lag phase were prolonged in the functional dyspepsia patients compared with the healthy volunteers, regardless of the method of measurement. The lag phase was significantly correlated (r2=0.864) with the T1/2 by the breath test. Although the 13C-octanoic acid breath test cannot assess the gastric emptying of solids as reliably as ultrasonography, both tests are useful for evaluating functional dyspepsia patients with delayed gastric emptying.
12127587	Two polyketides, decumbenones A and B, and versiol were isolated from the culture filtrate of the fungus, Penicillium decumbens. Their respective structures were 1-(2,8-dihydroxy-1,2,6-trimethyl-1,2,6,7,8,8a-hexahydronaphthalen-1-yl)-3-hydroxy-1-propanone and 1-(2,8-dihydroxy-1,2,6-trimethyl-1,2,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-octahydronaphthalen-1-yl)-3-hydroxy-1-propanone based on NMR spectroscopic data, chemical conversion, and X-ray analysis. Decumbenone A inhibited melanization in Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast pathogen, whereas decumbenone B like versiol did not.
12128195	The ligand binding properties and resistances to denaturation of >300 different site-directed mutants of sperm whale, pig, and human myoglobin have been examined over the past 15 years. This library of recombinant proteins has been used to derive chemical mechanisms for ligand binding and to examine the factors governing holo- and apoglobin stability. We have also examined the effects of mutagenesis on the dioxygenation of NO by MbO(2) to form NO(3)(-) and metMb. This reaction rapidly detoxifies NO and is a key physiological function of both myoglobins and hemoglobins. The mechanisms derived for O(2) binding and NO dioxygenation have been used to design safer, more efficient, and more stable heme protein-prototypes for use as O(2) delivery pharmaceuticals in transfusion therapy (i.e. blood substitutes). An interactive database is being developed (http://olsonnt1.bioc.rice.edu/web/myoglobinhome.asp) to allow rapid access to the ligand binding parameters, stability properties, and crystal structures of the entire set of recombinant myoglobins. The long-range goal is to use this library for developing general protein engineering principles and for designing individual heme proteins for specific pharmacological and industrial uses.
12131971	The presence of mycotoxins in food has been associated with several human diseases, and health authorities have taken actions to decrease the ingestion of these compounds in the diet. A study was carried out to assess aflatoxins and ochratoxin A concentrations found in food, and to evaluate the potential risk to human health resulting from mycotoxin exposure. Between July 1998 to December 2001, 366 food samples were analyzed, including peanuts and its products, nuts, maize, oat and/or wheat products, rice and beans. Samples were processed and the extracted mycotoxins were detected and separated using thin layer chromatography, and then quantified with fluorescence. Aflatoxins were detected in 19.6% of the samples: raw peanuts and its products, pop corn, maize and Brazilian nuts (>2mg/kg). Peanuts and its products showed the highest levels of aflatoxin contamination (34.7%) with up to 1280 mg/kg of AFB1+AFG1 and 1706 mg/kg of total aflatoxins. Of the positive samples, AFB1 was detected in 98.5%, AFB2 in 93%, AFG1 in 66.7%, and AFG2 in 65.4%. Ochratoxin A was not detected (<25 mg/kg) in any sample analyzed. It was found that contamination levels mainly seen in peanuts and its products exceed Brazilian regulated standards, and they can be a potential risk to regular consumers of these products. Food producers' awareness allied to monitoring programs is essential to reduce human exposure to these compounds and prevent ensuing chronic diseases.
12132018
12132155	The optimum temporal for rice estimation using remote sensing data included the optimum temporal for rice planting area estimation and the optimum temporal for rice yield estimation. Based on GIS, the rice potential planting area was extracted. Therefore, the study area became smaller and the plant species considered decreased. So the optimum temporal for rice planting area estimation were determined through comparing the crop phonological calendars. In order to select the optimum temporal for rice yield estimation using remote sensing data, the relationships between the rice yield and agronomic parameters, the agronomic parameters and spectral variables, the rice yield and spectral variables for different development stages using field experiment data in 1989 and 1990 were studied. The result showed that the key period of rice production was from boot stage to heading stage. At last, the optimum temporal for rice yield estimation using remote sensing data was selected using the rice phenological calendars of 1998.
12132163	Based on field investigation and experimental data analysis, ecological economic principles were applied to study the structure and function, the characteristics of material and energy flows, and the economic and ecological benefits of a rice-crab model. The results show that rice-crab model had a higher integral benefit than rice model, and its net income, cost-benefit ratio, and labor productivity were increased by 382%, 67.7% and 295%, respectively. In view of the ecological benefits produced, the total nitrogen, alkaline-hydrolyzal nitrogen, total phosphorus, rapidly available phosphorus, rapidly available potassium, and organic matter in the soil after 1-year carb breeding were increased by 10.6%, 3.3%, 5.8%, 11.7%, 3.5% and 10.5%, respectively. Moreover, 6.375 kg N.hm-2 of non-point source pollution load could be cut down annually.
12132176	The sterility segregation and its genetic patterns of indica P(T)GMS rice were analyzed mainly based on the investigation of bagged seed-set of individuals in reciprocal F2 population from the crosses between P(T)GMS lines of different origin and typical indica conventional varieties of different ecotype under long day-length and high temperature condition by using the software of the maximum likelihood method. The results showed that the sterility of Annong S-1, Hengnong S-1, and W6154S, of which the sterility alteration was mainly induced by temperature fluctuation, was controlled by one major recessive gene. But the sterility of W7415S was controlled by more than two major recessive genes. Apart from the major recessive gene, there was a group of polygenes in controlling of the sterility segregation in F2 population. Moreover, the polygenic variance was different from line to line. It implied that the polygenes of W6154S or W7415S was far more complicated than that of Annong S-1 and Hengnong S-1 according to the maximum likelihood method. All the conventional indica varieties of different ecotypes possessed the major dominant fertility genes. Meanwhile, the genetic background in different ecotype conventional varieties, the essentiality of which lies in the existence of polygenes, was different and influenced the major gene expression deeply. It was also indicated that genetic background of middle-season variety Nanjing 11 was more complicated than that of early-season variety Erjiuqing and late-season variety GER-1 as well. Finally, the differences of drift in critical temperature inducing male sterility of P(T)GMS lines (for short term DCT) and the strategy of breeding practically usable P(T)GMS line with slighter DCT were discussed in the paper.
12132582	The primary target for light-chilling stress in chilling-sensitive cucumber leaves is the chloroplast Cu,Zn-Superoxide dismutase, followed by subsequent inactivation of the photosystem (PS) I by reactive oxygen species (ROS). To test this hypothesis, two rice cultivars that were different in their ecological origins (a chilling-resistant Stejaree 45 and a chilling-sensitive Milyang 23) were evaluated with respect to photosynthetic properties, the ROS scavenging system, and expression of genes that are involved in sucrose synthesis and allocation upon the light-chilling stress. As expected, when the leaves were exposed to various low temperatures with illumination (150 micromol m(-2)s(-1)) for 6 h, the leaf photosynthesis of Milyang 23 decreased faster than that of Stejaree 45. The light-chilling induced differential photoinhibition of photosynthesis between the two cultivars was caused by the photoin-activation of PSII but not of PSI, since the potential quantum yield of PSII followed a similar trend to the changes in photosynthetic rates. The activities of the two chloroplastic antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase) that are known to be sensitive to oxidative stress were barely affected by the light-chilling treatments. Among various genes in sucrose metabolism (such as cytosolic FBPase, SPS, SUT, SuSy, and AGPase), the transcript levels of SuSy in Milyang 23 were significantly decreased by light-chilling stress compared to that of Stejaree 45. Based on these results, we propose that PSII, not PSI, is the sensitive site for light-chilling stress in chilling-sensitive rice. The extent of PSII photoinhibition depends on its capacity for the photochemical utilization of light.
12133615	Primers targeting part of the ammonia-monooxygenase gene (amoA) have been used to detect and characterize ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in different environments. In this study, a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique using a competitive template for the amoA primer pair is described and evaluated. The method is based on addition of an internal standard to the PCR, a competitive template, which is amplified together with the template in the environmental sample. By adding different amounts of competitive template to the sample and observing the relative intensity of environmental amplificate and competitive amplificate, the number of amoA gene copies can be determined. Different tests were made to evaluate the competitive PCR method (cPCR) with respect to equal amplification efficiency of the two templates, degeneracy of the priming site and the importance of flanking regions surrounding the competitive template. Calibration curves made by addition of known amounts of Nitrosomonas europaea to soil samples revealed a detection limit for this technique of less than 1000 cells g(-1) soil and a linear response over a wide range of cell additions. Cloning and sequencing of amoA amplificates have confirmed the specificity of the primers, as we have not detected any false positives among the more than 200 clones investigated. The vertical distribution of ammonia-oxidizers in the upper cm of a waterlogged rice paddy soil was compared to nitrate and oxygen concentration profiles determined with microsensors and to net process rates derived from these profiles.
12134059	In a transgenic rice line, a beta-glucuronidase reporter gene under the control of the rice tungro bacilliform virus promoter became gradually methylated, and gene activity was lost concomitantly. Methylation was observed only in the homozygous offspring and was initially restricted to the promoter region and accompanied by loss of expression in the vascular bundle tissue only. This expression pattern was similar to that of a promoter with a deletion of a vascular bundle expression element. The gene activity could be reestablished by treatment with 5-azacytidine. Methylation per se did not inhibit the binding to the promoter region of protein factors which also bound to the unmethylated sequence. Instead, promoter methylation enabled the alternative binding of a protein with specificity for sequence and methylation. In further generations of homozygous offspring the methylation spread into the transcribed region and gene activity was completely repressed also in nonvascular cells. The results indicate that different stages are involved in DNA methylation-correlated gene inactivation, and that at least one of them may involve the attraction of a sequence and methylation-specific DNA-binding protein.
1213442
12135598	Octadecanoid pathway components, 12-oxo-phytodieonic acid (OPDA) and jasmonic acid (JA), are key biologically active regulators of plant self-defense response(s). However, to date these compounds have been studied mostly in dicots, and used large (1-10 g fresh weight, FW) samples for quantification, even when examined in mature rice plants, which is a drawback considering their rapid responsiveness to stress. Focusing on rice--a monocot cereal crop research model--this work describes an efficient and simultaneous quantification of both OPDA and JA using a minimum amount of 200mg FW seedling leaf tissue upon wounding (by cut) and treatment with fungal elicitor, chitosan (CT) by high-pressure liquid chromatography-turboionspray tandem mass spectrometry. Transient OPDA/JA "burst" was consistently and reproducibly detected within 3 min in wounded and CT treated leaves. OPDA peaked dramatically around 5 min and returned to its basal level within 15 min, whereas JA induction upon wounding and CT treatment were in parallel to OPDA production, peaking at 30 and 60 min, respectively. Present results mark a major advance in our understanding of key inducible octadecanoid pathway components in rice, and strongly suggest a role for the octadecanoid pathway downstream of perception of at least these two fundamentally different extracellular stimuli.
12136031	A new and unusual family of LTR elements, Dasheng, has been discovered in the genome of Oryza sativa following database searches of approximately 100 Mb of rice genomic sequence and 78 Mb of BAC-end sequence information. With all of the cis-elements but none of the coding domains normally associated with retrotransposons (e.g., gag, pol), Dasheng is a novel nonautonomous LTR element with high copy number. Over half of the approximately 1000 Dasheng elements in the rice genome are full length (5.6-8.6 kb), and 60% are estimated to have amplified in the past 500,000 years. Using a modified AFLP technique called transposon display, 215 elements were mapped to all 12 rice chromosomes. Interestingly, more than half of the mapped elements are clustered in the heterochromatic regions around centromeres. The distribution pattern was further confirmed by FISH analysis. Despite clustering in heterochromatin, Dasheng elements are not nested, suggesting their potential value as molecular markers for these marker-poor regions. Taken together, Dasheng is one of the highest-copy-number LTR elements and one of the most recent elements to amplify in the rice genome.
12136108	Based on the analysis of structural features and conserved elements, 27 novel snoRNA genes have been identified from rice. All of them belong to the C/D box-containing snoRNA family except for one that belongs to the H/ACA box type. The newly found genes fall into six clusters that comprise at least three snoRNA genes, and in one case as many as nine genes. Interestingly, four of the six clusters are located within the largest intron of a protein coding gene. The majority of intronic snoRNA gene clusters are simply formed by multiple copies of the same species of snoRNA gene that possess the identical functional elements. This implies a possible mechanism of duplication for the origin of repeating snoRNA coding regions in one intron. However, a few intronic snoRNA gene clusters consisting of different snoRNAs species were also observed. Polycistronic precursors from two independently transcribed clusters were demonstrated by RT-PCR and individual snoRNAs processed from the polycistronic precursors were positively determined by reverse transcription assay. Analyses of the intergenic spacers in the clusters showed that, in addition to a very high AT content, the processing signals in rice snoRNA polycistronic transcripts might be different from those of yeast. Our results demonstrate that, in both plants and mammals, numerous snoRNAs can be produced simultaneously from an mRNA precursor of a host gene despite the different arrangements. The intronic snoRNA gene cluster is a novel gene organization, which is so far unique to plants. The conservation of intronic snoRNA gene clusters in plants was further demonstrated by the study of a similar snoRNA gene organization in the first intron of a Hsp70 gene from wild rice and Zizania caduciflora.
12136123	Known in over 150 species, cytoplasmic male sterility is encoded by aberrant mitochondrial genes that prevent pollen development. The RNA- or protein-level expression of most of the mitochondrial genes encoding cytoplasmic male sterility is altered in the presence of one or more nuclear genes called restorers of fertility that suppress the male-sterile phenotype. Cytoplasmic male sterility/restorer systems have been proven to be an invaluable tool in the production of hybrid seeds. Despite their importance for both the production of major crops such as rice and sunflower and the study of organelle/nuclear interactions in plants, none of the nuclear fertility-restorer genes that reduce the expression of aberrant mitochondrial proteins have previously been cloned. Here we report the isolation of a gene directly involved in the control of the expression of a cytoplasmic male sterility-encoding gene. The Petunia restorer of fertility gene product is a mitochondrially targeted protein that is almost entirely composed of 14 repeats of the 35-aa pentatricopeptide repeat motif. In a nonrestoring genotype we identified a homologous gene that exhibits a deletion in the promoter region and is expressed in roots but not in floral buds.
12136160	alpha-Galactosidases catalyze the hydrolysis of galactooligosaccharides and galactopolysaccharides to alpha-galactose residues and are widely distributed in microorganisms, plants and animals. alpha-Galactosidase from rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) was crystallized by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. The crystals belong to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 63.1, b = 71.3, c = 85.6 A, and diffract beyond 1.9 A resolution.
12137373	Diazinon is an organophosphorus insecticide (OPP) that is used as a pesticide for Chilo suppressalis (WLK) (Lep., Pyralidae) in rice fields. The extraction of diazinon from soil and the stems of rice plants has been carried out by microwave-assisted extraction (MAE) and the results compared with ultrasonic extraction (USE). The best parameters for MAE are hexane-acetone (8:2 v/v) as a solvent, a 2.5 min extraction time, and 20 ml of the solvent volume. Also, surface-water samples of the rice fields were extracted by solid phase extraction (SPE) using a C18 disc. The optimum conditions of SPE were a sample volume of 750 ml, a pH of 7 and high ionic strength of water. The extracted samples were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The relative standard deviation (RSD) and regression coefficients related to the linearity were <3.5% (n = 5) and 0.99, respectively. The limit of detection (LOD) is 0.1 ng ml(-1) with selected ion monitoring (SIM) at 137 m/z. The average recoveries of diazinon in soil and stem samples by MAE and surface-water by SPE were 98% (+/-3), 94% (+/-5) and 87% (+/-3), respectively. In June, the concentration of diazinon in soil and stem samples of the rice plants in Guilan province is high (55 ng ml(-1)) and in September is low (2 ng ml(-1)). In surface-water samples, the results are converse. In November, diazinon can not be detected in soil, stem or surface-water samples. Diazinon is degraded to diethylthiophosphoric acid. Also, three microorganism genera (Pseudomonas sp, Flavobacterium sp and Agrobacterium sp) have been found to degrade diazinon in soil and surface water.
12139007	In many flowering plants, self-fertilization is prevented by an intraspecific reproductive barrier known as self-incompatibility (SI), that, in most cases, is controlled by a single multiallelic S locus. So far, the only known S locus product in self-incompatible species from the Solanaceae, Scrophulariaceae and Rosaceae is a class of ribonucleases called S RNases. Molecular and transgenic analyses have shown that S RNases are responsible for pollen rejection by the pistil but have no role in pollen expression of SI, which appears to be mediated by a gene called the pollen self-incompatibility or Sp gene. To identify possible candidates for this gene, we investigated the genomic structure of the S locus in Antirrhinum, a member of the Scrophulariaceae. A novel F-box gene, AhSLF-S2, encoded by the S2 allele, with the expected features of the Sp gene was identified. AhSLF-S2 is located 9 kb downstream of S2 RNase gene and encodes a polypeptide of 376 amino acids with a conserved F-box domain in its amino-terminal part. Hypothetical genes homologous to AhSLF-S2 are apparent in the sequenced genomic DNA of Arabidopsis and rice. Together, they define a large gene family, named SLF (S locus F-box) family. AhSLF-S2 is highly polymorphic and is specifically expressed in tapetum, microspores and pollen grains in an allele-specific manner. The possibility that Sp encodes an F-box protein and the implications of this for the operation of self-incompatibility are discussed.
12139222	After more than 50 years of effective management, resurgent malaria threatens residents in the Menoreh Hills and the foothills of the Dieng Plateau of Central Java, Indonesia. The Dieng Plateau dominates the highland center of Central Java. The steep Menoreh Hills, surrounded by rice paddy habitats, cover approximately 500 km2 with no peaks greater than 1,000 m. We studied epidemic malaria in Purworejo district, one of the three districts containing the Menoreh Hills. Between 1986 and 1995, the annual parasite incidence (API) in Purworejo ranged from 2 to 11 cases per 1,000 residents per year and was typically approximately 5 per 1,000. In 2000 the API was 44.5. This sharp increase was confined to subdistricts in and around the Menoreh Hills and Dieng Plateau foothills. The primary vectors of malaria, those favoring steep, forested hillsides on Java, were Anopheles maculatus and Anopheles balabacensis. Deterioration of vector control activity, followed by a severe economic downturn in 1997, may explain the epidemic. Malaria in the Menoreh Hills and lower Dieng Plateau threatens surrounding areas of rice paddy inhabited by Anopheles aconitus as well as a nearby coastal habitat where the even more efficient vector Anopheles sundaicus occurs in abundance. Most of the 130 million people living on Java never experienced the hyper- and holoendemic malaria that occurred throughout most of the island before the effective DDT spraying and chloroquine treatment campaigns of the 1950s. Reintroduced endemic malaria threatens the island of Java.
12141609	The concentrations of the naturally occurring radionuclides 232Th, 238U, 210Pb, 226Ra and 238Ra were determined in the vegetables (leafy vegetables, fruit, root, bean and rice) and derived products (sugar, coffee, manioc flour, wheat flour, corn flour and pasta) consumed most by the adult inhabitants of Rio de Janeiro City. A total of 88 samples from 26 different vegetables and derived products were analyzed. The highest contribution to radionuclide intake arises from bean, wheat flour, manioc flour, carrot, rice, tomato and potato consumption. The estimated daily intakes due to the consumption of vegetables and derived products are 1.9 mBq of 232Th (0.47 microg), 2.0 mBq of 238U (0.17 microg), 19 mBq of 236Ra, 26 mBq of 210Pb and 47 mBq of 228Ra. The estimated annual effective dose due to the ingestion of vegetables and their derived products with the long-lived natural radionuclides is 14.5 microSv. Taking into account literature data for water and milk from Rio de Janeiro the dose value increases to 29 microSv, with vegetables and derived products responsible for 50% of the dose and water for 48%. 210Pb (62%) and 228Ra (24%) were found to be the main sources for internal irradiation.
12143311	A test-cross population was established for mapping genes conditioning fertility restoration for dwarf-wild-abortive cytoplasmic male sterility(CMS-DA) in rice. A recombinant inbred line(RIL) population consisting of 210 lines was derived from the cross Xieqingzao B/Miyang 46, in which Xieqingzao B is the maintainer line of CMS-DA Xieqingzao A, and Miyang 46 is the restorer line. Each of the RILs was crossed to Xieqingzao A, and the resulting F1s were used for phenotyping of the spikelet fertility in 1999 and 2000. A linkage map consisting of 129 RFLP and SSLP markers was constructed. QTLs having significant main effects and/or epistatic effects for spikelet fertility were determined with QTLMAPPER 1.0 of mixed linear model. Background genetic variation due to main and epistatic effects of important markers was controlled. Four QTLs having significant main effects for fertility restoration were detected. A major gene qRf-10-2 was located in interval RM258-RZ811 on the long arm of chromosome 10, and QTL qRf-1 displaying a moderate main effect was located in a position close to RG532 on chromosome 1. Two other QTLs were located on chromosome 5 (qRF-5) and the short arm of chromosome 10 (qRf-10-1), in which the main effect of qRf-5 bacame significant only in the absence of qRf-10-2. A significant digenic interaction was detected, which occurred between QTLs qRf-1 and qRf-5. No significant QTL by environmental interactions and epistasis by environmental interactions were detected. Analyses on the gene effects based on markers closest to the Rf genes were made, and multi-locus interactions were implied. The present results were also compared to a previous study on mapping fertility restoration genes in Milyang 46 for wild-abortive CMS Zhenshan 97A, and to other published reports. It was indicated that differences on the genetic control of fertility restoration among different rice populations were mainly attributed to variations on genes with minor main effects and epistatic effects.
12143312	This study was conducted with a recombinant inbred line (RILs) population consisting of 240 recombination lines, derived from an elite combination, Zhenshan 97B x Minghui 63. The RILs and their parents were grown in a randomized complete design with two replications in the years of 1999 and 2000. Sheath blight response ratings for the population and their parents were identified by an improved method of inoculation, which was carried out with short woody toothpicks incubated with a Rhizoctonia solani strain, RH-9, and inserted the third sheath in the late tillering/green ring stage of growth. A linkage map was constructed from the RILs. The QTL mapping of sheath blight resistance was carried out by the method of interval QTL mapping. Two QTLs for sheath blight resistance were detected in each year, and were located on chromosome 5 and chromosome 9, respectively. The QTL for sheath blight resistance on chromosome 5 was flanked by markers C624 and C246 on the basis of 1999 data, and by markers C246 and RM26 using 2000 data. The 1-LOD-confidence intervals of QTLs for sheath blight resistance on chromosome 5 detected in two years greatly overlapped with each other, and the peak of the 1-LOD-confidence intervals were approximately the same site. This suggested that the QTL for resistance on chromosome 5 detected in 1999 was probably the same as the QTL detected in 2000. The QTL for sheath blight resistance on chromosome 9 was located on the marker interval of C472-R2638 in term of 1999 data, and on the interval of RM257-RM242 based on 2000 data, and the two intervals were 9.7 cM away from each other. Based on the effect analysis of QTLs for resistance, the genotype of MH63 had negative additive effects or reduced sheath blight rating.
12143314	RFLP markers isolated from barley, wheat and rice were applied to construct a fine structure map of brachytic1, a semi-dwarf gene located on chromosome 1(7H) short arm in barley. The map covered 15.2 cM with the average distance 0.8 cM between markers. A barley cDNA clone, MWG2074B co-segregated with brh1 gene in the test population. Another major band of this clone MWG2074A was 0.8 cM away from brh1 toward centromere. CDO545 and BCD129 were two flanking markers mapped on both sides of brh1, toward distal and pistal, respectively. CDO545 fitted the systenic region of rice genome, chromosome 6 short arm perfectly. However, two major bands of MWG2074 could not be mapped to the target position of rice genome.
12144288	Member(s) of the Anopheles barbirostris group Reid, particularly Anopheles barbirostris and Anopheles campestris Reid are the suspected vectors of Plasmodium vivax in Pa Rai (Aranyaprathet, Sa Kaeo province). To determine if An. barbirostris, An. campestris, or both, are present in Pa Rai and to determine their potential to transmit malaria, a field and laboratory study was conducted. Isofemale colonizations of wild caught mosquitoes captured by landing catches were made for species confirmation and to determine the mosquito life cycle. Pupal morphology indicated all mosquitoes were An. campestris. During the late rainy season (October and November), An. campestris populations comprised 78.6% of all females captured by human landing catches and 7.1% of mosquitoes in a cow-baited trap. The biting activity cycle peaked between 2000 and 0100 hours and was highest (17.6 bites per person per hour) at 2300 hours. More An. campestris bit people indoors (nine bites per person per hour) than outdoors (four bites per person per hour). Immature An. campestris were found in ponds, swamps, rice-fields, puddles, marshes, ground pools, and pits with open sunlight to partial shade. The time from egg hatch to adult was 18-47 d and 14-22 d under laboratory (25.0-27.0 degrees C) and ambient (26-32 degrees C) conditions, respectively. The fecundity of An. campestris ranged from 173 to 311 eggs. Based on experimental infections, An. campestris was able to support the sporogonic cycle of P. vivax with 76.2 and 23.8% oocyst and sporozoite formation rate, respectively. An. campestris shows high potential as a malaria vector in Pa Rai.
12144714	Both intake of whole grain and higher levels of serum enterolactone have been related to reduced risk for CHD and some cancers. Because lignans are prevalent in the outer layers of grains, these findings may be related. We carried out a crossover feeding study in which overweight, hyperinsulinaemic, non-diabetic men (n 5) and women (n 6) ate, in random order, wholegrain foods or refined-grain foods in a diet with 30 % energy from fat. The dominant whole grain was wheat, followed by oats and rice. All food was supplied by the investigators and each diet lasted for 6 weeks, with an intervening washout period of 6-9 weeks. Serum enterolactone concentrations were higher when eating the wholegrain than the refined-grain diet by 6.2 (within person SE 1.7) nmol/l (P=0.0008). Most of the increase in serum enterolactone when eating the wholegrain diet occurred within 2 weeks, though the serum enterolactone difference between wholegrain and refined-grain diets continued to increase through 6 weeks. Serum enterolactone concentrations can be raised by eating a diet rich in whole grains.
12144715	The aim of the present study was to compare Fe absorption from industrially-manufactured and home-cooked cereal foods. Fe absorption was measured using the radiolabelled Fe extrinsic tag technique in thirty-nine adult human subjects from cereal porridges manufactured by extrusion cooking or roller-drying, and from the same cereal flours after home cooking to produce pancakes, chappattis or bread. One series of cereal porridges was amylase-treated in addition before roller-drying. Fe absorption was relatively low from all products, ranging from 1.8-5.5 % for rice, 2.5-3.5 % for maize, 4.9-13.6 % for low-extraction wheat, and <1 % for high-extraction wheat foods. The phytic acid content remained high after drying of the cereal porridges being about 1.20, 1.70, 3.20, 3.30 mg/g in low-extraction wheat, rice, high-extraction wheat and maize products respectively, and could explain the low Fe absorption. There were little or no differences in Fe absorption between the extruded and roller-dried cereals, although amylase pre-treatment increased Fe absorption from the roller-dried rice cereal 3-fold. This was not due to phytate degradation but possibly because of the more liquid nature of the cereal meal as fed. There were similarly few or no differences in Fe absorption between the industrially-processed cereals and home-cooked cereals made into pancakes or chappattis. Bread-making, however, degraded phytic acid to zero in the low-extraction wheat flour and Fe absorption increased to 13.6 %, the greatest from all cereal foods tested. It is concluded that Fe absorption from extruded, roller-dried or home-cooked cereal foods is similarly low and that only those cooking procedures such as bread-making, which extensively degrades phytic acid, or amylase pre-treatment, which substantially liquifies cereal porridges, improve Fe absorption.
12145927	Estimation of decadal accumulation of some heavy metals in surface rice soils from the Tai Lake region, southern Jiangsu Province, China was made by means of calculating the monitoring data and/or analysis data of the archived soil samples. For the last decade, the estimated annual accumulation rate for Cu or Zn, Pb and Cd was 0.3-1 mg.(kg.a)-1, 0.2-1 mg.(kg.a)-1 and 0.3-3 micrograms.(kg.a)-1 respectively, the apparent pollution loading was, therefore, respectively 0.5-1 kg.(hm2.a)-1, 0.5-1.0 kg.(hm2.a)-1, 0.5-3.0 kg.(hm2.a)-1 [symbol: see text] 0.8-10 x 10(-3) kg.(hm2.a)-1. The accumulation rate for the content of available form was shown to be greater than that of total content. The non-point source pollution marked bigger contribution to the total annual loading for the Pb and Cd than the other source pollutions, while the Cd loading was prominently higher than those reported in Europe. These results may indicate that the food safety in this region may be constrained by the soil pollution of these heavy metals at high accumulation rates.
12146245
12146252
12146788	Functional genome analysis of plants has entered the high-throughput stage. The complete genome information from key species such as Arabidopsis thaliana and rice is now available and will further boost the application of a range of new technologies to functional plant gene analysis. To broadly assign functions to unknown genes, different fast and multiparallel approaches are currently used and developed. These new technologies are based on known methods but are adapted and improved to accommodate for comprehensive, large-scale gene analysis, i.e. such techniques are novel in the sense that their design allows researchers to analyse many genes at the same time and at an unprecedented pace. Such methods allow analysis of the different constituents of the cell that help to deduce gene function, namely the transcripts, proteins and metabolites. Similarly the phenotypic variations of entire mutant collections can now be analysed in a much faster and more efficient way than before. The different methodologies have developed to form their own fields within the functional genomics technological platform and are termed transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics and phenomics. Gene function, however, cannot solely be inferred by using only one such approach. Rather, it is only by bringing together all the information collected by different functional genomic tools that one will be able to unequivocally assign functions to unknown plant genes. This review focuses on current technical developments and their impact on the field of plant functional genomics. The lower plant Physcomitrella is introduced as a new model system for gene function analysis, owing to its high rate of homologous recombination.
12147507	The cbnA gene encoding the chlorocatechol dioxygenase gene from Ralstonia eutropha NH9 was introduced into rice plants. The cbnA gene was expressed in transgenic rice plants under the control of a modified cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Western blot analysis using anti-CbnA protein indicated that the cbnA gene was expressed in leaf tissue, roots, culms, and seeds. Transgenic rice calluses expressing the cbnA gene converted 3-chlorocatechol to 2-chloromucote efficiently. Growth and morphology of the transgenic rice plants expressing the cbnA gene were not distinguished from those of control rice plants harboring only a Ti binary vector. It is thus possible to breed transgenic plants that degrade chloroaromatic compounds in soil and surface water.
12147736	The Arabidopsis AtMCP and rice OsMCP genes which encode proteins highly homologous to molybdoenzymes of the sulphite oxidase family were isolated and characterized. Both proteins seemed to possess only a molybdenum cofactor as the redox centre, unlike all the other eukaryotic molybdoenzymes. Putative MCP orthologues were identified in 17 plant species, indicating that MCPs are widely distributed over the plant kingdom [corrected]. An analysis using a green fluorescent protein fusion showed that AtMCP possesses a peroxisomal targeting signal at its C-terminus. Putative peroxisomal targeting signals were also found in all plant MCPs, suggesting the existence of a new redox pathway in this organelle.
12148277	Five structural important residues of rice nonspecific lipid transfer protein LTP110 were mutated by site-directed mutagenesis. Sequence results showed that they were all mutated successfully. After trying various E. coli expression systems, thioredoxin fusion expression system was found to be a proper system to express wild type and mutant LTP110. cDNA sequences encoding wild type LTP110 and the mutants Y17A, P72L, R46A, D43A, C50A were cloned into two kinds of thioredoxin fusion expression vectors. The expression results were compared. In pTrxFus/GI724 expression system, wild type LTP110 and the mutants Y17A, P72L, R46A could be expressed at low level while D43A and C50A could not be expressed normally; in pET32a(+)/BL21 (DE3) trxB- expression system, wild type LTP110 and all mutant proteins could be expressed very well and the levels were higher than that in pTrxFus/GI724 system. LTP110 fusion protein expressed in pET32a(+) vector was purified and its activity was checked by fluorescence labeled fatty acid. Results indicated that the recombinant LTP110 fusion protein has lipid binding activity. This work provides good basis for the further study.
12148532	TERMINAL FLOWER 1 (TFL1)/CENTRORADIALIS (CEN)-like genes play important roles in determining plant architecture, mainly by controlling the timing of phase transition. To investigate the possibility of similar mechanisms operating in the control of inflorescence architecture in rice, we analysed the functions of RCN1 and RCN2, rice TFL1/CEN homologs. Constitutive overexpression of RCN1 or RCN2 in Arabidopsis caused a late-flowering and highly branching phenotype, indicating that they possess conserved biochemical functions as TFL1. In 35S::RCN1 and 35S::RCN2 transgenic rice plants, the delay of transition to the reproductive phase was observed. The transgenic rice plants exhibited a more branched, denser panicle morphology. Detailed observation of the panicle structure revealed that the phase change from the branch shoot to the floral meristem state was also delayed, leading to the generation of higher-order panicle branches. These results suggest rice has a pathway that can respond to the overexpressed TFL1/CEN-like functions, and the molecular mechanisms controlling the phase transition of meristems are conserved between grass and dicot species, at least to some extent.
12150546	Rice has been one of the most important grains. While polished white rice is favored, colored strains of rice, red, or black, have been maintained for religious purposes in Japan. We studied whether feeding of unpolished colored rice instead of white rice ameliorates oxidative renal tubular damage in rats induced by ferric nitrilotriacetate. Whereas renal lipid peroxidation was exacerbated in white rice-fed group in comparison with standard chow group, this exacerbation was not observed in red or black rice-fed groups. These changes were dependent on the proportion of colored rice to standard chow in the diet. Cyanidin 3-O-beta-D-glucoside was detectable neither in the serum nor kidney after one week of colored rice diet, but serum protocatechuic acid was significantly increased after black rice diet. There was a generalized decrease in the renal glutathione peroxidase activity in rice diet groups. Renal enzymatic activities of superoxide dismutase, glutathione S-transferase and NAD(P)H quinone reductase were not associated with the levels of lipid peroxidation. However, renal catalase activity was significantly increased in black rice-fed groups. These may partly explain the antioxidative effect. Furthermore, colored strains of rice are rich in proteins. Thus, our data warrants further investigation of the antioxidative effect of colored rice.
12152833	A study was conducted to assess differences in contaminant assimilation among co-occurring white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) and rice rats (Oryomys palustris) captured at a contaminated site. Rodents were collected from five areas at the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant (PGDP), a uranium enrichment facility. Relatively few white-footed mice (8.7%) had quantifiable concentrations of PCBs compared to 42% of rice rats (chi2 = 6.49, d.f. = 1, P < 0.025), and seven of the 11 rice rats (64%) over 50 g body mass had quantifiable concentrations of PCBs in their livers. White-footed mice had higher mean concentrations of barium (P < 0.0001), chromium (P = 0.0010), copper (P = 0.0011), lead (P = 0.0335), and aluminum (P = 0.0006) than rice rats at all five sampling areas. Species-specific differences in accumulation of PCBs and metals were observed and attributed to differences in habitat use and foraging strategies.
12154129	Phytochromes confer the photoperiodic control of flowering in rice (Oryza sativa), a short-day plant. To better understand the molecular mechanisms of day-length recognition, we examined the interaction between phytochrome signals and circadian clocks in photoperiodic-flowering mutants of rice. Monitoring behaviors of circadian clocks revealed that phase setting of circadian clocks is not affected either under short-day (SD) or under long-day (LD) conditions in a phytochrome-deficient mutant that shows an early-flowering phenotype with no photoperiodic response. Non-24-hr-light/dark-cycle experiments revealed that a rice counterpart gene of Arabidopsis CONSTANS (CO), named PHOTOPERIOD SENSITIVITY 1 (Heading date 1) [SE1 (Hd1)], functions as an output of circadian clocks. In addition, the phytochrome deficiency does not affect the diurnal mRNA expression of SE1 upon floral transition. Downstream floral switch genes were further identified with rice orthologs of Arabidopsis FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT). Our RT-PCR data indicate that phytochrome signals repress mRNA expression of FT orthologs, whereas SE1 can function to promote and suppress mRNA expression of the FT orthologs under SD and LD, respectively. This SE1 transcriptional activity may be posttranscriptionally regulated and may depend on the coincidence with Pfr phytochromes. We propose a model to explain how a short-day plant recognizes the day length in photoperiodic flowering.
12154134	Starch is made up of amylose (linear alpha-1,4-polyglucans) and amylopectin (alpha-1,6-branched polyglucans). Amylopectin has a distinct fine structure called multiple cluster structure and is synthesized by multiple subunits or isoforms of four classes of enzymes: ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase, soluble starch synthase (SS), starch branching enzyme (BE), and starch debranching enzyme (DBE). In the present paper, based on analyses of mutants and transgenic lines of rice in which each enzyme activity is affected, the contribution of the individual isoform to the fine structure of amylopectin in rice endosperm is evaluated, and a new model referred to as the "two-step branching and improper branch clearing model" is proposed to explain how amylopectin is synthesized. The model emphasizes that two sets of reactions, alpha-1,6-branch formation and the subsequent alpha-1,4-chain elongation, are catalyzed by distinct BE and SS isoforms, respectively, are fundamental to the construction of the cluster structure. The model also assesses the role of DBE, namely isoamylase or in addition pullulanase, to remove unnecessary alpha-1,6-glucosidic linkages that are occasionally formed at improper positions apart from two densely branched regions of the cluster.
12154137	The level of cis-unsaturated fatty acids in phosphatidylglycerol (PG) from rice leaves was genetically altered from 19.3% in the wild-type to 29.4 and 32.0% in T1 plants segregated with cDNAs for glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase of chloroplasts (GPAT; EC 2.3.1.15) from Arabidopsis (+AGPAT plant) and spinach (+SGPAT plant), respectively; and to 21.4% in a non-transformant segregated from +SGPAT plants (-SGPAT plant). In all these plants, O2 evolution from leaves was similar at 25 degrees C and was impaired to a similar extent at 5 and 11 degrees C. However, in parallel with the levels of cis-unsaturated fatty acids in PG, +AGPAT and +SGPAT plants showed less impaired rates of O(2) evolution from leaves than the wild-type and -SGPAT plants at 14 and 17 degrees C. In agreement with this, the fresh weight of 14-day-old seedlings increased to 571 + or - 18, 591 + or - 23, 687 + or - 32 and 705 + or - 31 mg in the wild-type, -SGPAT, +AGPAT and +SGPAT plants, respectively, after 6 weeks at 17/14 degrees C (day/night). These results demonstrate the practical importance of the present technology with GPAT in improvement of the chilling sensitivity of crops.
12154140	Cerebrosides, compounds categorized as glycosphingolipids, were found to occur in a wide range of phytopathogens as novel elicitors and to induce the effective disease resistance for rice plants in our previous study. Here, we showed that cerebroside elicitors lead to the accumulation of phytoalexins and pathogenesis-related (PR) protein in cell suspension cultures of rice with the structural specificity similar to that for the rice whole plants. This elicitor activity of the cerebroside was greater than jasmonic acid (JA) and chitin oligomer (which is known to be an elicitor for cell suspension cultures of rice). Treatment of cell suspension cultures with cerebroside and chitin oligomer resulted in a synergetic induction of phytoalexins, suggesting that cerebroside and carbohydrate elicitors, such as glucan and chitin elicitor, enhance the defense signals of rice in vivo. Induction of phytoalexins by the treatment with cerebroside elicitor was markedly inhibited by LaCl(3) and GdCl(3), Ca(2+)channel blockers. It is possible that Ca(2+) may be involved in the signaling pathway of elicitor activity of cerebroside.
12154145	Tonoplast H(+)-ATPase purified from cultured rice cells (Oryza sativa L. var. Boro) was reconstituted into asolectin liposomes containing steryl glucoside (SG) or acyl steryl glucoside (ASG), and the effects of SG and ASG on proton pumping, ATP-hydrolysis activity and proton permeability of the proteoliposome membranes were investigated. In the proteoliposomes containing 10 mol% SG, proton pumping and ATP-hydrolysis activity were increased to around 140% of those in SG-free proteoliposomes. In the proteoliposomes containing ASG, proton pumping and ATP-hydrolysis activity were decreased to one-tenth of those in ASG-free proteoliposomes at 15 mol% ASG; however, activity increased again slightly in the range between 20 and 40 mol% ASG. The change in proton pumping across the proteoliposome membrane is not due to a change of proteoliposome size nor to the location of the catalytic site of the tonoplast H(+)-ATPase in the proteoliposomes. SG and ASG also reduced the passive proton permeability of the proteoliposomes. These results show that SG and ASG modulate proton pumping across the tonoplast toward stimulation and depression, respectively, and they reduce the passive proton permeability of the tonoplast.
12154146	Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a potent innate immunity system in plants that is effective against a broad range of pathogens. SAR in dicotyledonous plants such as tobacco and Arabidopsis has been partially elucidated and is mediated by salicylic acid (SA). However, the SAR mechanism of monocotyledonous rice plants remains to be clarified, although some similarities between SAR mechanisms in both types have been reported. Here we have characterized N-cyanomethyl-2-chloroisonicotinamide (NCI) as an effective SAR inducer in both plant species. Soil drench application of NCI induces a broad range of disease resistance in tobacco and rice and, more specifically, PR gene expression in tobacco. Both SA measurements in wild-type NCI-treated tobacco and pathogenic infection studies using NahG transgenic tobacco plants indicate that NCI-induced resistance enhancement does not require SA. Therefore, it is suggested that NCI induces SAR by triggering signaling at the same level as or downstream of SA accumulation as do both benzo(1,2,3)thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester and 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid. The fact that all of these chemicals are effective in rice and tobacco suggests that several common components function in disease resistance in both plant species.
12155091
12155097
12155098
12157844	"The population dynamics of Don Daeng, a rice-growing village in Northeast Thailand, was studied as part of an integrated village study program in 1981-1984. The mortality and fertility rates since the 1930s were determined from data obtained by interviewing 232 ever-married women who gave birth to 876 children, while those for the preceding periods were estimated from the village population in three separate years and by extrapolation of the trend since the 1930s, which was adjusted for the results of the national censuses....[Results indicate that] immigration dominated until the early 1940s, when paddy acreage could no longer be expanded, and since then emigration has taken place." (SUMMARY IN ENG)
12157855
12157987
12159281
12160249	This study aimed to investigate the effects of different sensory-evaluated food textures on masticatory movements, and to identify meaningful factors that correspond to different food textures. Masticatory movements of three healthy subjects were evaluated with a jaw movement tracking device using five different test foods: almond, hard and light rice crackers, apple, and chewing gum. The movements of the incisor point, working and non-working condyle and the entire mandible at the occlusal phase in the horizontal plane were analyzed. For harder foods, the incisor entered the intercuspal position from a rear and lateral, the working condyle showed anterior and noticeable medial movements as the entire mandible translated posteriorly and medially. For soft foods, the incisor movements were nearly coincidental with the lateral border movements, and the mandible rotated towards the inner side near the working condyle. Although the overall paths of the mandibular movements are individually different, it appeared that jaw movement at the final closure is particular to the food texture. From the standpoint of mandibular movements, it is suggested that masticatory movements during the occlusal phase in the horizontal plane is useful for revealing the relationship between mandibular movements and food textures that were evaluated with onomatopoetic words.
12160425	Mastomys natalensis is widely distributed in the whole of Africa and is a reservoir of important zoonoses including plague. In order to control this species efficiently using rodenticides, tests were carried out to find the most preferred cereal and bait additives to form a suitable bait base. Investigations were based on food choice tests in caged animals. Among the cereals tested, rice was significantly preferred (P=0.01) followed by wheat, sorghum and maize. Of the additives tested, both sexes of M. natalensis significantly preferred baits containing either 1,3 and 5% sucrose (p=0.05), or 3 and 5% glycerine, or 3% fish, or 1% sucrose. Also both sexes rejected bait containing 1 and 3% molasses. Additives such as 1% glycerine, 1 and 3% groundnut did not significantly influence bait intake. Sex preference differential was observed on baits containing 1 and 5% fish, 1 and 5% groundnut, 5% cotton oil, 5% cod liver oil and 0.5% salt. It was concluded that bait additives which scored 70% or more should be considered suitable for M. natalensis bait. However further studies are recommended on this subject.
12160464	A Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein kinase from rice (Oryza sativa), OsCBK, has been characterized that lacks Ca2+-binding EF hands and has Ca2+/CaM-independent autophosphorylation and substrate-phosphorylation activity. OsCBK has all 11 subdomains of a kinase catalytic domain and a putative CaM-binding domain, and shares high identity with Ca2+-dependent-protein-kinase ('CDPK')-related protein kinases in plants. OsCBK bound CaM in a Ca2+-dependent manner as previously reported for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases in animals, but autophosphorylation and phosphorylation of histone IIIs were Ca2+/CaM-independent. Surface plasmon resonance analysis showed that OsCBK specifically bound CaM with high affinity (K (D)=30 nM). Capillary electrophoresis showed that phosphorylation of OsCBK occurred on serine and threonine residues. These data show that OsCBK is a serine/threonine protein kinase that binds Ca2+/CaM, but whose enzymic activity is independent of Ca2+/CaM. In situ hybridization showed that OsCBK is expressed in reproductive and vegetative tissues of rice and shows temporal and spatial changes during plant growth and development. OsCBK is highly expressed in zones of cell division and it is particularly abundant in sporogenous cells of the anther at meiosis.
12162411	Cirrhotic patients frequently undergo various medical procedures, such as diagnostic gastrointestinal endoscopy, without taking breakfast. The aim of the present study was to clarify the effect of longer fasting (> 12 h) on energy metabolism, and to test whether supplementation of an oral branched-chain amino-acid-enriched nutrient mixture (BCAA mixture), which contains various nutrients in addition to BCAA, could improve the catabolic state. Metabolic measurement was performed in 30 cirrhotic patients and 13 normal subjects, using indirect calorimetry. Compared with that in the normal subjects, the respiratory quotient (RQ) was significantly lower after an overnight fast in the cirrhotic patients, indicating accelerated fat oxidation and a catabolic state. In addition, RQ in cirrhotic patients (n = 7) decreased rapidly with longer fasting, whereas that in the normal subjects (n = 5) showed relatively stable values. These results indicate that special care should be taken with medical procedures that are carried out in patients who have fasted. The effect of oral glucose, a carbohydrate-rich snack (rice ball), and the BCAA mixture (each, 210 kcal) on RQ was studied in 6 normal subjects and 6 patients with liver cirrhosis after an overnight fast. Supplementation of the carbohydrate-rich snack and the BCAA mixture (210 kcal each) elevated RQ and blood glucose levels to a similar degree in the cirrhotic patients. Oral administration of glucose (210 kcal) led to significantly greater elevation of blood glucose levels than the other snacks, which may be unfavorable for cirrhotic patients, who frequently have glucose intolerance. In the 30 cirrhotic patients, supplementation with the BCAA mixture in the late evening significantly improved RQ in the early morning. Carbohydrate-rich meals are used as a late evening snack in cirrhotic patients, but our study indicates that supplementation with a BCAA mixture can also be used to reduce fat oxidation in the early morning, with results similar to those with carbohydrate-rich snacks.
12162569	Beta-1,3-glucanases are referred to as pathogenesis-related proteins and they are also involved in several developmental processes. We isolated a cDNA for beta-1,3-glucanase from rice anther and named it Oryza sativa glucanase 1 (Osg1). Phylogenetic analysis showed that Osg1 belonged to monocotyledonous endo-beta-1,3-glucanase subgroup A. RT-PCR analysis revealed that Osg1 transcripts were present in leaves, roots, and anthers.
12163647	A systematic proteomic analysis of rice (Oryza sativa) leaf, root, and seed tissue using two independent technologies, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by tandem mass spectrometry and multidimensional protein identification technology, allowed the detection and identification of 2,528 unique proteins, which represents the most comprehensive proteome exploration to date. A comparative display of the expression patterns indicated that enzymes involved in central metabolic pathways are present in all tissues, whereas metabolic specialization is reflected in the occurrence of a tissue-specific enzyme complement. For example, tissue-specific and subcellular compartment-specific isoforms of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase were detected, thus providing proteomic confirmation of the presence of distinct regulatory mechanisms involved in the biosynthesis and breakdown of separate starch pools in different tissues. In addition, several previously characterized allergenic proteins were identified in the seed sample, indicating the potential of proteomic approaches to survey food samples with regard to the occurrence of allergens.
12163918	To investigate the microbial quality of foods sold on streets of Accra and factors predisposing to their contamination. Structured questionnaires were used to collect data from 117 street vendors on their vital statistics, personal hygiene, food hygiene and knowledge of foodborne illness. Standard methods were used for the enumeration, isolation, and identification of bacteria. Most vendors were educated and exhibited good hygiene behaviour. Diarrhoea was defined as the passage of > or =3 stools per day) by 110 vendors (94.0%), but none associated diarrhoea with bloody stools; only 21 (17.9%) associated diarrhoea with germs. The surroundings of the vending sites were clean, but four sites (3.4%) were classified as very dirty. The cooking of food well in advance of consumption, exposure of food to flies, and working with food at ground level and by hand were likely risk factors for contamination. Examinations were made of 511 menu items, classified as breakfast/snack foods, main dishes, soups and sauces, and cold dishes. Mesophilic bacteria were detected in 356 foods (69.7%): 28 contained Bacillus cereus (5.5%), 163 contained Staphylococcus aureus (31.9%) and 172 contained Enterobacteriaceae (33.7%). The microbial quality of most of the foods was within the acceptable limits but samples of salads, macaroni, fufu, omo tuo and red pepper had unacceptable levels of contamination. Shigella sonnei and enteroaggregative Escherichia coli were isolated from macaroni, rice, and tomato stew, and Salmonella arizonae from light soup. Street foods can be sources of enteropathogens. Vendors should therefore receive education in food hygiene. Special attention should be given to the causes of diarrhoea, the transmission of diarrhoeal pathogens, the handling of equipment and cooked food, hand-washing practices and environmental hygiene.
12166969	Some pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4(5H)-thione, pyrazolo[3,4-d][1,3]thiazin-4-one/thione, and pyrazolo[1,5-c][1,3,5]thiadiazine-4-one/thione derivatives were synthesized and screened for antifungal activity against the causal agent of rice blast disease, Magnaporthe grisea. In all cases a remarkable inhibition of fungal growth was found in the range from 10 to 200 microg x mL(-1). Several compounds were able to control mycelium growth at a rate of 10 microg x mL(-1), a concentration at which the reference compound tricyclazole was completely ineffective. At least in the case of the most active substance, at the same dose the growth of seedlings or cultured cells of rice was substantially unaffected. Results allowed definition of structural requirements either to maintain or to enhance mycotoxic activity.
12166981	Myosmine has been regarded as a specific tobacco alkaloid until investigations pointed out that nuts and nut products constitute a significant source of myosmine. In the present study it is shown that the occurrence of myosmine is widespread throughout a large number of plant families. Using a method for extraction practicable for all examined foods, quantitative analysis through internal standard addition showed nanograms per gram amounts. Positively tested edibles were staple foods such as maize, rice, wheat flour, millet, potato, and milk and also cocoa, popcorn, tomato, carrot, pineapple, kiwi, and apples. No myosmine was detectable in other vegetables and fruits such as lettuce, spinach, cucumber, onion, banana, tangerines, and grapes. Myosmine is easily nitrosated giving rise to a DNA adduct identical to the esophageal tobacco carcinogen N-nitrosonornicotine. Therefore, the role of dietary myosmine in esophageal adenocarcinoma should be further investigated.
12168952	Blast is an economically important disease of rice. To map genes controlling blast resistance, recombinant inbred lines (RIL) were developed from Khao Dawk Mali 105, an aromatic, blast-susceptible cultivar and the blast resistance donor, CT 9993-5-10-M (CT). A linkage map encompassing 2112 cM was constructed from 141 RILs using 90 restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) and 31 simple sequence repeats (SSR). Virulent isolates of blast fungus were identified by screening differential host sets against 87 single-spore isolates collected from the north and northeast of Thailand. Fifteen virulent blast isolates were selected for leaf blast screening. Neck blast was evaluated both under natural conditions and controlled inoculations. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for broad resistance spectrum (BRS) to leaf blast were located on chromosomes 7 and 9. In particular, the QTL(ch9) was mapped near the Pi5(t) locus. The QTL(ch7) was located close to a previously mapped partial resistance QTL. Both loci showed significant allelic interaction. Genotypes having CT alleles at both QTL(ch7) and QTL(ch9) were the most resistant. Two neck-blast QTLs were mapped on chromosomes 5 and 6. The inconsistent map locations between the leaf and neck blast QTLs indicate the complexity of fixing both leaf and neck blast resistance. The coincidence of BRS and field resistance QTLs on chromosome 7 supports the idea that BRS may reflect the broad resistance spectrum to leaf blast in rice. These findings laid the foundation for the development of a marker-assisted scheme for improving Khoa Dawk Mali 105 and the majority of aromatic Thai rice varieties that are susceptible to blast.
12169915	To assess prospectively speech and swallowing function in a series of 17 patients after supracricoid partial laryngectomy with cricohyoidoepiglottopexy. Retrospective study. From 1983 to 1996, 69 patients at Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, CHUV (Lausanne, Switzerland) underwent a supracricoid partial laryngectomy with cricohyoidoepiglottopexy. Seventeen of them (25%) could be contacted and accepted participation in a functional evaluation that included a questionnaire to document their present nutritional status and diet. A formal voice evaluation was also performed, which included psychoacoustic evaluation of vocal qualities, fundamental frequency parameters, phonation intensity range, phonatory quotient (vital capacity divided by maximum phonation time), and a laryngeal video laryngoscopy performed with a rigid endoscope. Median postoperative follow-up was 66 months (range, 12-152 mo). Nine of 17 patients (53%) recovered a normal diet with no increased incidence of aspirations. Seven of 17 had minor limitations such as no peanuts, dry bread, or rice. Two of 17 patients were restricted to pureed food. Assessment of voice showed a clearly decreased mean fundamental frequency at 70.1 Hz (normal range, 121-211 Hz) and a narrowed frequency range of phonation with a mean value of 8.8 semitones (normal value, 27). Forty-two percent of the patients went back to their normal professional life after the operation. Among the 10 who did not, 3 (16%) retired and 7 actually had to give up their profession, because of the modification of their voice or general asthenia and age close to retirement. Restoration of laryngeal function after supracricoid partial laryngectomy with cricohyoidoepiglottopexy is satisfactory. Although most of the patients seem to recover normal swallowing function, severe voice alterations appear to be inevitable.
12172016	The centromere of eukaryotic chromosomes is essential for the faithful segregation and inheritance of genetic information. In the majority of eukaryotic species, centromeres are associated with highly repetitive DNA, and as a consequence, the boundary for a functional centromere is difficult to define. In this study, we demonstrate that the centers of rice centromeres are occupied by a 155-bp satellite repeat, CentO, and a centromere-specific retrotransposon, CRR. The CentO satellite is located within the chromosomal regions to which the spindle fibers attach. CentO is quantitatively variable among the 12 rice centromeres, ranging from 65 kb to 2 Mb, and is interrupted irregularly by CRR elements. The break points of 14 rice centromere misdivision events were mapped to the middle of the CentO arrays, suggesting that the CentO satellite is located within the functional domain of rice centromeres. Our results demonstrate that the CentO satellite may be a key DNA element for rice centromere function.
12172034	The expression of alpha-amylase genes in cereals is induced by both gibberellin (GA) and sugar starvation. All alpha-amylase genes isolated from cereals contain a TATCCA element or its variants at positions approximately 90 to 150 bp upstream of the transcription start sites. The TATCCA element was shown previously to be an important component of the GA response complex and the sugar response complex of alpha-amylase gene promoters. In the present study, three cDNA clones encoding novel MYB proteins with single DNA binding domains were isolated from a rice suspension cell cDNA library and designated OsMYBS1, OsMYBS2, and OsMYBS3. Gel mobility shift experiments with OsMYBSs showed that they bind specifically to the TATCCA element in vitro. Yeast one-hybrid experiments demonstrated that OsMYBS1 and OsMYBS2 bind to the TATCCA element and transactivate a promoter containing the TATCCA element in vivo. Transient expression assays with barley half-seeds showed that OsMYBS1 and OsMYBS2 transactivate a promoter containing the TATCCA element when sugar is provided, whereas OsMYBS3 represses transcription of the same promoter under sugar starvation. Transient expression assays also showed that these three OsMYBSs cooperate with a GA-regulated transcription factor, HvMYBGa, in the transactivation of a low-pI barley alpha-amylase gene promoter in the absence of GA. Two-hybrid experiments with barley half-seeds showed that OsMYBS1 is able to form a homodimer. The present study demonstrates that differential DNA binding affinity, promoter transactivation ability, dimerization, and interactions with other protein factors determine the biological function of OsMYBSs. This study also suggests that common transcription factors are involved in the sugar and hormonal regulation of alpha-amylase gene expression in cereals.
12172621	We bred a microbial community capable of degrading rice straw with high efficiency. The microbial community degraded more than 60% of rice straw within 4 days at 50 degrees C. The high stability of the community's degradation ability was demonstrated by its tolerance of being subcultured several times in medium with/without cellulosic material, being heated to 95 degrees C, and freezing at -80 degrees C. The community degraded both nonsterilized and sterilized substrate; and its degradation ability was not affected by pH changes in the medium (initial pH 5-9). PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analyses based on 16S rDNA fragments showed that the community structure remained constant after multiple subcultures extending over 2 years. DNA sequence analyses of DGGE bands indicated the coexistence of both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria in the community.
12172799	We have identified, genetically mapped and physically delineated the chromosomal location of a new rice blast resistance locus, designated Pi-CO39(t). This locus confers resistance to Magnaporthe grisea isolates carrying the AVR1-CO39 avirulence locus. The AVR1-CO39 locus is conserved in non-rice (cereals and grasses)-infecting isolates of M. grisea, making Pi-CO39(t) useful for engineering M. grisea resistance in rice and other cereals. The resistance in the rice line CO39 was inherited as a single dominant locus in segregating populations derived from F(2) and F(3) crosses between disease-resistant (CO39) and susceptible (51583) rice genotypes. Microsatellite, RFLP and resistance gene analog (RGA) markers were used to map the Pi-CO39(t) locus to a 1.2-cM interval between the probenazole-responsive (RPR1) gene (0.2 cM) and RFLP marker S2712 (1.0 cM) on the short arm of rice chromosome 11. RFLP markers G320 and F5003, and resistance gene analogs RGA8, RGA38 and RGACO39 were tightly linked to the Pi-CO39(t) locus (no recombination detected in a sample of ~2400 gametes). A large-insert genomic library of CO39 was constructed in the binary plant transformation vector pCLD04541. A library screen using RGA8, RGA38 and probes derived from the ends of CO39 clones, as well as BAC end probes from the corresponding locus in the rice cv. Nipponbare, resulted in the assembly of three CO39 contigs of 180 kb, 110 kb and 145 kb linked to the Pi-CO39(t) locus. A 650-kb contig was also constructed representing the susceptible locus, pi-CO39(t), in the Nipponbare genome. The two genomes are highly divergent with respect to additions, deletions and translocations at the Pi-CO39(t) locus, as revealed by the presence or absence of mapping markers.
12172848	The possible regulation of senescence-initiated remobilization of carbon reserves in rice (Oryza sativa L.) by abscisic acid (ABA) and cytokinins was studied using two rice cultivars with high lodging resistance and slow remobilization. The plants were grown in pots and either well-watered (WW, soil water potential = 0 MPa) or water-stressed (WS, soil water potential = -0.05 MPa) from 9 days after anthesis until they reached maturity. Leaf water potentials of both cultivars markedly decreased at midday as a result of water stress but completely recovered by early morning. Chlorophyll (Chl) and photosynthetic rate (Pr) of the flag leaves declined faster in WS plants than in WW plants, indicating that the water deficit enhanced senescence. Water stress accelerated starch remobilization in the stems, promoted the re-allocation of pre-fixed (14)C from the stems to grains, shortened the grain-filling period and increased the grain-filling rate. Sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS, EC 2.4.1.14) activity was enhanced by water stress and positively correlated with sucrose accumulation in both the stem and leaves. Water stress substantially increased ABA but reduced zeatin (Z) + zeatin riboside (ZR) concentrations in the root exudates and leaves. ABA significantly and negatively, while Z+ZR positively, correlated with Pr and Chl of the flag leaves. ABA, not Z+ZR, was positively and significantly correlated with SPS activity and remobilization of pre-stored carbon. Spraying ABA reduced Chl in the flag leaves, and enhanced SPS activity and remobilization of carbon reserves. Spraying kinetin had the opposite effect. The results suggest that both ABA and cytokinins are involved in controlling plant senescence, and an enhanced carbon remobilization is attributed to an elevated ABA level in rice plants subjected to water stress.
12173290	Enzymes associated with glycogen metabolism and glycerol synthesis in larvae of the Shonai ecotype of the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis, were investigated over the winter in 2000-2001. Glycerol content was scarcely detected in September and October, rapidly increased in November and December, peaked in January, and then decreased. Glycogen was converted to glycerol over the winter until February, and glycerol was reconverted to glycogen in March. The trehalose content remained constant over the winter. The activities of enzymes associated with glycerol synthesis changed with the season. Glycerol accumulation was accomplished by activation of glycogen phosphorylase, inhibition of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and pyruvate kinase, and activation of enzymes associated with glycerol synthesis, mainly glyceraldehyde-3-phosphatase and polyol dehydrogenase with glyceraldehyde activity. These changes led to a diversion of triose phosphates into the pathway of glycerol synthesis. However, activities of the two initial enzymes of the hexose monophosphate shunt were not activated and remained relatively constant, but high during the period of active glycerol synthesis. Both decreasing temperature in the field and the transition from the diapause to the post-diapause state may be responsible for the changes in activities of enzymes associated with glycerol synthesis.
12173497	Starting in August 1997, Indonesia experienced a radical and rapid deterioration in its economy. Between 1996 and 1998, dietary intake during the second trimester was measured in 450 pregnant women in Purworejo, Central Java, Indonesia. Using six 24 h recalls we describe the consequences of the economic crisis on the energy intake of pregnant Indonesian women. Depending on the date of data collection, women were grouped into 'before crisis', 'transition' and 'during crisis'. Mean energy intake among groups was compared using ANOVA and Student's t-test. All groups of pregnant women already had a mean energy intake before the emerging crisis that was lower than the Indonesian recommended dietary allowances (RDA). Nevertheless, energy intake differed significantly among women with different education levels (P = 0.00) and from different socio-economic groups (P = 0.00). 'During transition', a significant decrease in energy intake was experienced by urban poor women (P = 0.01). Poor women with access to rice fields had a higher rice consumption than other groups throughout the period. Our results most likely reflect the effect of higher rice price on income and welfare. 'During crisis', energy intake improved among vulnerable groups, perhaps reflecting government intervention.
12176088	An investigation of total arsenic in food composites, collected from the villagers, was carried out in arsenic-affected areas of the Murshidabad district, West Bengal where the agricultural system is mostly groundwater dependent. The shallow, large-diameter tubewells installed for agricultural irrigation contain an appreciable amount of arsenic (mean 0.085 mg/l, n=6). Even the soil is arsenic-contaminated (mean 11.35 mg/kg, n=36), so some arsenic can be expected in the food chain from crops cultivated in this area. The results revealed that the individual food composite and food groups containing the highest mean arsenic concentrations (microg/kg) are potato skin (292.62 and 104), leaf of vegetables (212.34 and 294.67), arum leaf (331 and 341), papaya (196.50 and 373), rice (226.18 and 245.39), wheat (7 and 362), cumin (47.86 and 209.75), turmeric powder (297.33 and 280.9), cereals and bakery goods (156.37 and 294.47), vegetables (91.73 and 123.22), spices (92.22 and 207.60) and miscellaneous items (138.37 and 137.80) for the Jalangi and Domkal blocks, respectively. Arsenic is absorbed by the skin of most of the vegetables. The arsenic concentration in fleshy vegetable material is low (mean 2.72 microg/kg, n=45). Higher levels of arsenic were observed in cooked items compared with raw. Daily dietary intakes of arsenic (microg) from the foodstuffs for adults are 171.20 and 189.13 and for children are 91.89 and 101.63 in the Jalangi and Domkal blocks, respectively.
12176720	The UK's Regular Interlaboratory Counting Exchanges (RICE) scheme provides proficiency testing for laboratories counting asbestos fibres by phase contrast optical microscopy, as in the method for measurement of airborne fibre concentrations. From 1984 to 1992, the scheme used circulations of industrial samples containing mostly chrysotile, and reference values were obtained from fibre counts by automated image analysis. In 1992, lower density (< 100 fibres/mm2) samples from asbestos clearance operations were added and the new reference values were medians of the laboratories' determinations. In extensive data from 28 recent rounds of sample exchanges, the new reference values are shown to be more reliable than the old. Average counting levels have changed, with different trends according to fibre density. In low density samples, after initial increases, the levels appear to have stabilized. Counting levels on the higher density samples show a continuing trend of approximately 0.5% decrease per round. Widening the density range may have reduced the influence of counters' preconceptions of what values are expected and so their counts on the reference samples may now better reflect their routine counting. The implications of these findings and of other new developments, such as expected new counting rules, are discussed.
12177140	PCR-based differential screening was used to identify ethylene-induced genes in deep-water rice (Oryza sativa L.). One of the isolated cDNAs represented a novel protein, OsSBF1, with high homology to mammalian Na+/bile acid transporters and to sodium-dependent transporters from bacteria. One highly homologous protein and three less conserved homologues were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana indicating that Sbf proteins exist in monocot and dicot plant species. Expression of OsSbf1 in deep-water rice was shown to be elevated by growth-inducing treatments. Since bile acids have not been found in plants to date a possible function of SBF proteins may be in the transport of structurally related sulphonated brassinosteroids.
12177461	Expression patterns of a rice (Oryza sativa) cytochrome c gene OsCc1 and its promoter activity were characterized in transgenic rice plants. OsCc1 transcripts accumulate in most cell types, but to varying levels. Large amounts of OsCc1 transcripts are found in the roots, calli, and suspension cells, but relatively lower in mature leaves, demonstrating its higher levels of expression in non-photosynthetic tissues. Unlike the human cytochrome c gene, which is responsive to cAMP, OsCc1 expression is not enhanced in various rice tissues after dibutyryl cAMP treatments. OsCc1 promoter was linked to the sgfp gene and its activities in different tissues and cell types of transgenic rice plants were analyzed in comparison with the Act1 and RbcS promoters. OsCc1 promoter directs expression in virtually all organs of transgenic plants including roots, leaves, calli, embryos, and suspension cells, showing a particularly high activity in calli and roots. Activity of the OsCc1 promoter was 3-fold higher than Act1 in calli and roots and comparable with RbcS in leaves, representing a useful alternative to the maize (Zea mays) Ubi1 and the rice Act1 promoters for transgene expression in monocots.
12177487	We posed the question of whether steady-state levels of the higher polyamines spermidine and spermine in plants can be influenced by overexpression of a heterologous cDNA involved in the later steps of the pathway, in the absence of any further manipulation of the two synthases that are also involved in their biosynthesis. Transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants engineered with the heterologous Datura stramonium S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (samdc) cDNA exhibited accumulation of the transgene steady-state mRNA. Transgene expression did not affect expression of the orthologous samdc gene. Significant increases in SAMDC activity translated to a direct increase in the level of spermidine, but not spermine, in leaves. Seeds recovered from a number of plants exhibited significant increases in spermidine and spermine levels. We demonstrate that overexpression of the D. stramonium samdc cDNA in transgenic rice is sufficient for accumulation of spermidine in leaves and spermidine and spermine in seeds. These findings suggest that increases in enzyme activity in one of the two components of the later parts of the pathway leading to the higher polyamines is sufficient to alter their levels mostly in seeds and, to some extent, in vegetative tissue such as leaves. Implications of our results on the design of rational approaches for the modulation of the polyamine pathway in plants are discussed in the general framework of metabolic pathway engineering.
12177491	Although cold and drought adaptation in cereals and other plants involve the induction of a large number of genes, inheritance studies in Triticeae (wheat [Triticum aestivum], barley [Hordeum vulgare], and rye [Secale cereale]) have revealed only a few major loci for frost or drought tolerance that are consistent across multiple genetic backgrounds and environments. One might imagine that these loci could encode highly conserved regulatory factors that have global effects on gene expression; therefore, genes encoding central regulators identified in other plants might be orthologs of these Triticeae stress tolerance genes. The CBF/DREB1 regulators, identified originally in Arabidopsis as key components of cold and drought regulation, merit this consideration. We constructed barley cDNA libraries, screened these libraries and a barley bacterial artificial chromosome library using rice (Oryza sativa) and barley Cbf probes, found orthologs of Arabidopsis CBF/DREB1 genes, and examined the expression and genetic map location of the barley Cbf3 gene, HvCbf3. HvCbf3 was induced by a chilling treatment. HvCbf3 is located on barley chromosome 5H between markers WG364b and saflp58 on the barley cv Dicktoo x barley cv Morex genetic linkage map. This position is some 40 to 50 cM proximal to the winter hardiness quantitative trait locus that includes the Vrn-1H gene, but may coincide with the wheat 5A Rcg1 locus, which governs the threshold temperature at which cor genes are induced. From this, it remains possible that HvCbf3 is the basis of a minor quantitative trait locus in some genetic backgrounds, though that possibility remains to be thoroughly explored.
12177492	Dinucleotide repeat DNA with the pattern (GA)(n)/(TC)(n), so-called GAGA elements, control gene expression in animals, and are recognized by a specific regulatory protein. Here, a yeast one-hybrid screen was used to isolate soybean (Glycine max) cDNA encoding a GAGA-binding protein (GBP) that binds to (GA)(n)/(CT)(n) DNA. Soybean GBP was dissimilar from the GAGA factor of Drosophila melanogaster. Recombinant GBP protein did not bind to dinucleotide repeat sequences other than (GA)(n)/(CT)(n). GBP bound to the promoter of the heme and chlorophyll synthesis gene Gsa1, which contains a GAGA element. Removal of that GAGA element abrogated binding of GBP to the promoter. Furthermore, insertion of the GAGA element to a nonspecific DNA conferred GBP-binding activity on that DNA. Thus, the GAGA element of the Gsa1 promoter is both necessary and sufficient for GBP binding. Gbp mRNA was expressed in leaves and was induced in symbiotic root nodules elicited by the bacterium Bradyrhizobium japonicum. In addition, Gbp transcripts were much higher in leaves of dark-treated etiolated plantlets than in those exposed to light for 24 h. Homologs of GBP were found in other dicots and in the monocot rice (Oryza sativa), as well. We suggest that interaction between GAGA elements and GBP-like proteins is a regulatory feature in plants.
12177502	Rice (Oryza sativa) anther development is easily damaged by moderately low temperatures above 12 degrees C. Subtractive screening of cDNA that accumulated in 12 degrees C-treated anthers identified a cDNA clone, OsMEK1, encoding a protein with features characteristic of a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase. The putative OsMEK1 protein shows 92% identity to the maize (Zea mays) MEK homolog, ZmMEK1. OsMEK1 transcript levels were induced in rice anthers by 12 degrees C treatment for 48 h. Similar OsMEK1 induction was observed in shoots and roots of seedlings that were treated at 12 degrees C for up to 24 h. It is interesting that no induction of OsMEK1 transcripts was observed in 4 degrees C-treated seedlings. In contrast, rice lip19, encoding a bZIP protein possibly involved in low temperature signal transduction, was not induced by 12 degrees C treatment but was induced by 4 degrees C treatment. Among the three MAP kinase homologs cloned, only OsMAP1 displayed similar 12 degrees C-specific induction pattern as OsMEK1. A yeast two-hybrid system revealed that OsMEK1 interacts with OsMAP1, but not with OsMAP2 and OsMAP3, suggesting that OsMEK1 and OsMAP1 probably function in the same signaling pathway. An in-gel assay of protein kinase activity revealed that a protein kinase (approximately 43 kD), which preferentially uses myelin basic protein as a substrate, was activated by 12 degrees C treatment but not by 4 degrees C treatment. Taken together, these results lead us to conclude that at least two signaling pathways for low temperature stress exist in rice, and that a MAP kinase pathway with OsMEK1 and OsMAP1 components is possibly involved in the signaling for the higher range low-temperature stress.
12177751
12177940
12177945
12177951
12177958
12177963
12177974
12177984
12177994
12178000
12178023
12178024
12178029
12178039
12178041
12178042
12178048
12178050
12178051
12178054
12178083
12178099
12178311
12178548
12179190
12179226
12180654	Nitrous oxide (N2O) accounts for 5% of the total enhanced greenhouse effect and responsible for the destruction of the stratospheric ozone. The rice-wheat cropping system occupying 26 million ha of productive land in Asia could be a major source of N2O as most of the fertilizer N in this region is consumed by this system. Emission of N2O as influenced by application of urea, urea plus farm yard manure (FYM), and urea plus dicyandiamide (DCD), a nitrification inhibitor, was studied in rice-wheat systems of Indo-Gangetic plains of India. Total emission of N2O-N from the rice-wheat systems varied between 654 g ha(-1) in unfertilized plots and 1,570 g ha(-1) in urea fertilized plots. Application of FYM and DCD reduced emission of N2O-N in rice. The magnitude of reduction was higher with DCD. In wheat also N2O-N emission was reduced by DCD. FYM applied in rice had no residual effect on N2O-N emission in wheat. In rice intermittent wetting and drying condition of soil resulted in higher N2O-N emission than that of saturated soil condition. Treatments with 5 irrigations gave higher emissions in wheat than those with 3 irrigations. In rice-wheat system, typical of a farmer's field in Indo-Gangetic plains, where 240 kg N is generally applied through urea, N2O-N emission is 1,570 g ha(-1) (0.38% of applied N) and application of FYM and DCD reduced it to 1,415 and 1,096 g ha(-1), respectively.
12182077	The mutants involved in the development of floral organ are good material for understanding the molecular genetic mechanisms of floral development. A rice mutant, that lacks palea in its florets, was derived from a spontaneous mutation in an indica line, SAR III-93-369. Genetic analyses in three F2 populations from the mutant crossed with three rice varieties, Sheng 47, N625 and CDR22, respectively, showed that the mutant trait is controlled by a single recessive gene. In the F2 population from npa-1/Sheng47 the gene for the non-palea trait was mapped between two restriction fragment length polymorphism markers, C498 and RZ450, with distances of 7.5 cM and 2.4 cM, respectively. The tagged recessive non-palea gene is temporarily designated npa-1.
12182078	Drought tolerance of rice is important because a considerable proportion of the world rice area is not irrigated and is prone to water deficit. In this study, an indica variety, Zhai Ye Qing 8 (ZYQ8), and a japonica variety, Jing Xi 17 (JX17), and their double haploid (DH) population were used for genetic study of drought tolerance. Water supply was stopped in seedling period for 15 days and then drought tolerance of the DH population and their parents were investigated. Mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) was undertaken base on the constructed molecular linkage map of this population. Two QTLs (qDR-5 and qDR-12) for drought tolerance were identified, they were in the region of GA41-GA257 on chromosome 5 and RG457-Y12817R on chromosome 12, respectively. The tolerance alleles of both QTLs were from the indica parent, ZYQ8. In the meantime two genes for drought tolerance near GA257 and Y12817R were detected too by using Epistat software, that is in accordance with the result by using Mapmaker/QTL. In addition, three loci (RG541, G318 and G192 on chromosome 1, 4 and 8, respectively) were found interacting with GA257 by Epistat software, while one locus (CT234 on chromosome 3) found interacting with Y12817R were also detected by Epistat software.
12182079	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is one of the most important cereal crops in the world. The chromosomes of rice are relatively small in size. With the help of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), several rice DNAs have been localized on rice chromosomes. 45S rDNA and 5S rDNA are encoding sequences for ribosomal RNA synthesis. For detecting the chromosomes related to 45S rDNA and 5S rDNA, the digoxigenin-dUTP labeled probe DNA was probed to the prometaphase chromosomes which were prepared from the root tips harvested from an indica rice variety, Zhongxian 3037. For identification of the chromosomes, slides were stained with Giemsa before FISH. With the improved FISH protocol 45S rDNA was clearly detected on two pairs of chromosomes which are usually found to be attached to nucleolus. The signal size between two pairs of the chromosomes was different. According to the characteristics of the chromosomes, the chromosomes with bigger signal were chromosome 9 and the other pair were chromosome 10. They were also discriminated from arm ratio. The signals of 5S rDNA were relatively small but clear. According to the size and arm ratio of the chromosome with FISH signals, the 5S rDNA was mapped on the short arm of chromosome 11, very close to the centromere region.
12182080	After growing in nutrient solution for 10 days, 84 rice varieties were harvested and measured in maximum root length (MRL) and root dry weight (RDW) separately. Twenty-seven of them were selected as representative variety for correlated fragments screening with amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique. After surveying with 15 pairs of AFLP primers, 7 fragments from 4 pairs of primers were identified having significant correlation with MRL or/and RDW based on correlation coefficient analysis. One of them, "T3P3f", was cloned and sequenced, and its specific primers (Z336) were designed for the regular PCR amplication. Further analysis in 84 rice varieties revealed that correlation coefficient between Z336 and MRL was -0.193, much closer to the significant level of 5%; as between Z336 and RDW was -0.391, over the significant level of 1%. For the trait expression, Z336 could explain the root trait difference of 3.7% for MRL and 15.3% for RDW, respectively. The result shows the marker Z336 might tightly link with a QTL that has the negative relation with RDW expression. With a double haploid (DH) population from a cross of ZYQ8 and JX17, Z336 was finally anchored on rice chromosome 11 with a linked marker of 9.4 cM.
12182081	A total of thirty-five restorer lines of hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L.) were analyzed by twenty-five SSR (simple sequence repeats) primer pairs, which disperse on 12 chromosomes in rice. Those primers detected 65 alleles among 35 restorer lines of hybrid rice. Per primer pair detected 2.6 alleles on the average. PIC (polymorphism index content) values ranged from 0.206 to 0.682. PIC value is 0.414 on the average. The result from cluster analysis shows that hybrid rice restorer lines have abundant resource in China, but the genetic diversity is small and the genetic background is vulnerable among them. The utilization of rice heterosis was limited seriously.
12182491	From 1998 to 2001, 216 ingredients intended for incorporation into chicken feed, which included groundnut cake, maize, millets, rice bran, sorghum, soybean, sunflower, and mixed feeds, were assayed for aflatoxins and ochratoxin A contamination using an indirect competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Thirty-eight percent of the samples were contaminated with aflatoxins and 6% with ochratoxin A. The incidence scores of aflatoxin contamination in excess of 10 microg/kg were 41 of 95 for maize, 18 of 30 for mixed feeds, 10 of 37 for groundnut, 6 of 29 for sorghum, 5 of 10 for sunflower, 3 of 14 for rice bran, and 1 of 8 for millet. Ochratoxin A contamination, in excess of 10 microg/kg, was found in 9 of 29 sorghum samples, 1 of 27 groundnut samples, 1 of 14 rice bran samples, 1 of 10 sunflower samples, and 2 of 8 millet samples. Ochratoxin A was not found in maize and mixed feeds. None of the three soybean samples contained ochratoxin A. This is the first report, to our knowledge, of co-occurrence of aflatoxins and ochratoxin A in Indian poultry feeds. The results confirm the importance of analysis of ingredients before incorporating them into mixed feeds.
12184155	The effect of technological process on essential and non essential amino acids contents in infant cereals, the protein and essential amino acids infant dietary requirements cover by infant cereals, and its quality using some chemical scores has been studied. Mix of raw flours, mix of roasted flours, mix of enzymatically, hydrolysed and drum dried flours and commercial infant cereals of four different types of infant cereals: "Multicereal" and "Wheat" (both with gluten), "Growth" and "Rice and carrot" (both gluten free) were evaluated. The technological process only show a significant effect on lysine, arginine (P < 0.05) and valine (P < 0.01) contents in "Rice and carrot" infant cereal. Protein of any studied infant cereals covers 17.4% of the daily infant requirements in, while for essential amino acids will cover about 25 to 200% until the third year of life. As we expected, the limitant amino acid was lysine in all flours. Chemical scores only were affected by technological treatment in "Rice and carrot" infant cereal, showing the gluten-free infant cereals higher values (36.7-69.5%) than gluten infant cereals (18.1%-30.7%) at the end of the processing. It should be standing out "Growth" infant cereal, because of it has a higher lysine content than other infant cereals due to the main ingredients rice and corn.
12184487	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens Stål, is a serious insect pest of rice (Oryza saliva L.). We have determined the chromosomal location of a BPH resistance gene in rice using SSR and RFLP techniques. A rice line 'B14', derived from the wild rice Oryza latifolia, showed high resistance to BPH. For tagging the resistance gene in 'B14X', an F2 population and a recombinant inbred (RI) population from a cross between Taichung Native 1 and 'B14' were developed and evaluated for BPH resistance. The results showed that a single dominant gene controlled the resistance of 'B14' to BPH. Bulked segregant SSR analysis was employed for identification of DNA markers linked to the resistance gene. From the survey of 302 SSR primer pairs, three SSR (RM335, RM261, RM185) markers linked to the resistance gene were identified. The closest SSR marker RM261 was linked to the resistance gene at a distance of 1.8 cM. Regions surrounding the resistance gene and the SSR markers were examined with additional RFLP markers on chromosome 4 to define the location of the resistance gene. Linkage of RFLP markers C820, R288, C946 with the resistance gene further confirmed its location on the short arm of chromosome 4. Closely linked DNA markers will facilitate selection for resistant lines in breeding programs and provide the basis for map-based cloning of this resistance gene.
12188617	This study was carried out to evaluate the effects of a pure xylanase, a pure beta-glucanase, a mix of the two pure enzymes, and a commercial enzyme preparation (Quatrazyme HP, Nutri-Tomen Les Ulis, France) on the viscosity exhibited by water-soluble nonstarch polysaccharides of several feedstuffs (Rialto wheat, Sidéral wheat, Isengrain wheat, triticale, rye, barley, oats, corn, wheat bran, rice bran, wheat screenings, soybean meal, rapeseed meal, sunflower meal, and peas). The viscosity depended on the feedstuffs and varieties of the same feedstuff. There was a correlation (R (2) = 0.86) between viscosity of cereals and their arabinoxylan and beta-glucan contents. The correlation was greater (R (2) = 0.99) when the type of cereal was taken into account. The addition of pure xylanase significantly decreased the viscosity of all feedstuffs except sunflower meal (P < or = 0.05). However, pure beta-glucanase was unable significantly to decrease the viscosity of Isengrain wheat, corn, rice bran, wheat screenings, soybean meal, and sunflower meal. There was a greater decrease in viscosity with the combination of xylanase and beta-glucanase than with addition of xylanase or beta-glucanase alone. This synergistic action of xylanase and beta-glucanase was observed only in Rialto wheat, Sidéral wheat, triticale, rye, barley, oats, and peas. Finally, the commercial enzyme preparation produced a greater reduction (P < or = 0.05) in viscosity for all feedstuffs compared to xylanase or beta-glucanase used alone or in combination. The greater effectiveness of the commercial enzyme preparation was due to the presence of side enzymatic activities (arabinofuranosidase, xylosidase, glucosidase, galactosidase, cellulase, and polygalacturonase).
12188618	A method of hydride generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry was applied to the determination of the selenium concentration of regular polished rice in China and selenium-enriched polished rice obtained by foliar application of selenium-enriched fertilizer in the forms of selenite and selenate. The average selenium content of regular rice was 0.025 +/- 0.011 microg g(-)(1). On the basis of a daily dietary rice intake of 300-500 g suggested by the China Nutrition Society, the total selenium intake from regular rice was calculated to be 7.5-12.5 microg per person per day for an adult. The selenium contents of rice were significantly increased to 0.471-0.640 microg g(-)(1) by foliar application of selenium-enriched fertilizer at rate of 20 g of Se ha(-)(1) in the forms of sodium selenite and sodium selenate. The selenium content of rice by application of a fertilizer of selenate was 35.9% higher than that by a fertilizer of selenite, which showed that Se-enriched fertilizer in selenate exhibited greater efficiency in increasing Se content in rice products. The Se-enriched rice products can increase daily Se intake on average by 100-200 microg of Se per day by the consumption of 400 g of rice products if the Se level of rice products is controlled at 0.3-0.5 microg of Se g(-)(1). Because rice is a staple food in China, selenium-enriched rice obtained by bioenrichment of selenium to increase the Se content of rice could be a good selenium source for the population in selenium-deficient regions.
12188635	The nutritional bioavailability of zinc from cooked milled, undermilled, and brown Philippine rice (variety PSB Rc14) was evaluated in rats, comparing results based on weight gain, tibia zinc incorporation (slope ratio analyses), and zinc radiotracer retention. Milling reduced the phytic acid and mineral content of the rice, resulting in zinc concentrations of 16.5, 19.4, and 27.2 microg/g and phytate/zinc molar ratios of 4, 20, and 28 for milled, undermilled, and brown rice, respectively. Measured zinc bioavailability was similar whether using growth, bone zinc, or radioisotope retention as criteria, at approximately 92, 86, and 77% of zinc sulfate, for milled, undermilled, and brown rice, respectively. However, the higher percent bioavailability of the zinc after milling was insufficient to compensate for the lower zinc content. With respect to zinc, the nutritional value was inversely related to milling, providing approximately 15, 17, and 21 microg bioavailable zinc/g rice, respectively, for milled, undermilled and brown rice of this variety.
12189212	Microbial production in anoxic wetland rice soils is a major source of atmospheric CH4 the most important non-CO2 greenhouse gas. Much higher CH4 emissions from well managed irrigated rice fields in the wet than in the dry season could not be explained by seasonal differences in temperature. We hypothesized that high CH4 emissions in the wet season are caused by low grain to biomass ratios. In a screenhouse experiment, removing spikelets to reduce the plants' capacity to store photosynthetically fixed C in grains increased CH4 emissions, presumably via extra C inputs to the soil. Unfavorable conditions for spikelet formation in the wet season may similarly explain high methane emissions. The observed relationship between reduced grain filling and CH4 emission provides opportunities to mitigate CH4 emissions by optimizing rice productivity.
12189799	We investigated the swimming abilities of three Costa Rican dry forest rodents (Coues' rice rat. Oryzomys couesi, hispid cotton rat, Sigmodon hispidus, and spiny pocket mouse, Liomys salvini) associated with a large marsh, Laguna Palo Verde, using 90 s swim trials in a plastic container. Swimming ability was evaluated by observing the use of limbs and tail in the water, inclination to the surface, and diving and floating behavior. Rice rats could float, swim and dive, suggesting that they can exploit surface and underwater resources. Cotton rats swam at the water's surface, but were less skilled swimmers than rice rats. Spiny pocket mice tired quickly and had difficulty staying at the water's surface. Results suggest that differential swimming ability is related to the distribution of the three sympatric species within the marsh and adjacent forest habitats.
12191869	A total of 132 farmers were selected from two areas (J and S) for this study. In area J, the subgroups Ja (40 subjects) and Jb (36 subjects) sprayed on rice crops either the organophosphate (OP) insecticide methamidophos or the mixture methamidophos-deltamethrin (a pyrethroid, Pyr). In area S, the subgroups Sa (27 subjects) and Sb (29 subjects) sprayed on cottons either the OP methyl-parathion or the mixture methyl-parathion-deltamethrin. Groups Jc (22 subjects) and Sc (20 subjects) were non-exposed controls. Erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was measured by the Ellman's method before spraying, after 2-h exposure and 1 h later. Inhibition of AChE occurred after 2-h exposure to both single OP (Ja and Sa) and OP-containing mixtures (Jb and Sb) as compared with both pre-exposure and control values (Jc and Sc). A similar recovery was found in subgroups Ja, Jb, Sa and Sb 1 h after spraying, but all remained lower than the pre-exposure level. There was no difference in AChE inhibition and recovery between the single OP subgroups and the OP mixture subgroups. The inhibitory effect on AChE shown in subjects with combined OP-Pyr exposure was induced by the OP component of the insecticide mixture and to a similar extent as that induced by the single OP formulations. In addition to the fact that the OP is more potent than Pyrs, the above results might explain why the clinical manifestations of OP mixture poisonings are similar to those of single OP poisoning.
12192866	A large number of callus from mature seeds of indica rice minghui 63 were obtained through pre-induction on medium with 2 mg/L 2,4-D but without inorganic and organic components for 9 days. Trichosanthin gene was transferred into indica rice minghui 63 by using agrobacterium with the help of bombardment and the transgenic plants were obtained by inducing regeneration. Southern and Western blot analysis showed that the trichosanthin gene had been transferred into genome of minghui 63 and expressed in rice plants. The anti-fungal assay suggested that transgenic rice plants enhanced resistance to infection of Pyricularia oryzae.
12196008	A recently developed method for the determination of arsenic species (arsenite, arsenate, monomethylarsonate, MMAA, and dimethylarsinate, DMAA) has been applied to the study of arsenic speciation in plants. This method uses ion-exchange liquid chromatography coupled on-line to atomic fluorescence spectrometry through continuous hydride generation. Various extraction procedures have been studied in detail using three plant certified reference materials. None of the procedures tested revealed fully satisfying results with all kinds of plant samples; microwave assisted extraction with 0.3 mol dm-3 orthophosphoric acid was found to be the most convenient for dealing with terrestrial plants. Species stability appears good. This method was applied to real world cultivated plant parts. Arsenate appears to predominate in soils, roots and leaves; unidentified species (probably arsenosugars) play an important role (60%) in rice fruits. Carrot was found to be the most contaminated edible plant part, containing 1 mg kg-1 essentially as arsenate species. MMAA was detected in all soils and some plant parts especially shallots at low levels, whereas DMAA was found only in one soil sample and in hot pepper leaves. Arsenite is a minor component of all soils; it is also present in some plant parts at low levels. However, no evident relationships were found between As speciation in the various plant parts and much more detailed studies will be necessary to elucidate As behaviour in plants.
12198189	Triacontanol (TRIA) is a saturated long-chain alcohol that is known to have a growth promoting activity when exogenously supplied to a number of plants. In this study, dry weight, protein and chlorophyll contents of rice seedlings were increased by foliar application of TRIA. Leaf net photosynthesis rate (Pn) was increased very quickly and persistently at a given photon flux density (PFD). The TRIA-regulated genes in rice were isolated from cDNA library by differential screening with probes generated from the forward- and reverse-suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) populations and confirmed by Northern blot. Sequence analysis revealed that most of the up-regulated genes encoded the photosynthetic and photorespiratory proteins. Two down-regulated genes were identified as those encoding an ABA- and stress-related protein and a wounding-related protein. These results suggested that TRIA up-regulated the photosynthesis process and suppressed stresses in rice plants. Time-course profiles of expression of rbcS isogenes suggested the complex mechanisms involved in the regulation of photosynthesis promoted by TRIA.
12198199	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play important roles in signal transduction of extracellular stimuli in eukaryotes. However, stimulatory signals for plant MAPKs have not been well elucidated. Here, a cDNA clone, termed Oryza sativa MAPK4 (OsMAPK4), from rice encoding a protein that showed homology with the eukaryotic MAPKs was isolated. According to the phylogenetic analysis, OsMAPK4 belongs to subgroup IV MAPK in plants. OsMAPK4 transcripts were expressed strongly in mature leaves and weakly in young leaves and panicles. The gene was also differentially expressed in roots at different developmental stages. In addition, the mRNA level of OsMAPK4 was up-regulated under sugar starvation, high salinity and cold treatments. These results suggest that this OsMAPK4 functions not only in developmental programs but also in stress-signaling pathways.
12198574	Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) are required for ribose 2'-O-methylation of eukaryotic ribosomal RNA. By researching in international rice genome databases, a snoRNA gene cluster, consisting of three box C/D snoRNA gene candidates, was found on chromosome 6. All of snoRNA coding sequences in this cluster exhibited the characteristic structure of box C/D antisense snoRNA. They shared conserved box C and box D motifs, a stable terminal stem formed by a 4-6 nt-long inverted repetition sequence located upstream of box C and downstream of box D. All candidates had a 12 nt-long sequence complementary to the region from 621 nt to 6 32 nt in rice 18 S rRNA (nt numbering according to GenBank accession No. X00755), and might mediate the ribose 2'-O-methylation of A(623) in rice 18 S rRNA. Comparison of these sequences showed that these three rice snoRNAs were homologue of yeast snR47. These three rice snoRNAs were named as OSsnR47.1, OSsnR47.2 and OSsnR47.3, respectively. Primer extension assay showed that these three snoRNAs were transcribed in vivo and determined the 5' ends of each snoRNA. RT-PCR detected transcripts containing linked snoRNA47s and this suggested that the snoRNAs encoded in the cluster might be transcribed as a polycistronic transcript under the control of a single upstream promoter. The gene sequences encoding these three snoRNAs had been deposited in GenBank under accession number of AF453504 AF453503 an d AF453502.
12199205	Phages with high affinity to the P20 protein of rice stripe virus (RSV) were enriched from phage-displayed random 12-mer peptide library after three rounds of phage display screening. Nine different peptides from the enriched library were selected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The P20 protein from raw extracts of rice leaves infected with RSV could be detected by those 9 peptides displayed on the phage, which suggested that a peptide could be an effective tool for diagnosis of RSV in rice and planthopper. Circular dichroism (CD) spectra of P20 fusion proteins with the binding phages and non-binding phages showed that the conformation of P20 protein was changed after binding to each of the 9 selected 12-mer peptides, which suggested that these peptides might disrupt the function of the P20 protein. Thereafter, those peptides might be used to develop plant resistance and disrupt virus transmission. Three of the 12-mer peptide genes were fused with the glutathione-S-transferase (GST) gene in the vector pGEX 3X. The fusion proteins were obtained from an Escherichia coli expression system and purified. The fusion proteins might have a potential to develop a plant peptide-based resistance to its pathogens and virus diagnosis. It also provided a tool (i) to confirm the inhibition of the function of P20 protein by the fusion peptides in vivo, and (ii) to detect the function of P20 protein and the interaction between the virus and its vector.
12199516	Homeobox genes are known as transcriptional regulators that are involved in various aspects of developmental processes in many organisms. In plants, many types of homeobox genes have been identified, and mutational or expression pattern analyses of these genes have indicated the involvement of several classes of homeobox genes in developmental processes. The fundamental body plan of plants is established during embryogenesis, whereas morphogenetic events in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) continue after embryogenesis. Knotted1-like homeobox genes (knox genes) are preferentially expressed in both the SAM and the immature embryo. Therefore, these genes are considered to be key regulators of plant morphogenesis. In this review, we discuss the regulatory role of knox genes and other types of homeobox genes in SAM establishment during embryogenesis and SAM maintenance after embryogenesis, mainly in rice.
12199518	Plant death during development is a highly orchestrated process at the cellular, tissue, organ, and whole-plant levels. The process toward death is endogenously programmed in plants. With our original approach called "three-dimensional analysis" using the rice coleoptile, we revealed detailed morphological alterations in the progression of senescence and programmed cell death involved in the air space (aerenchyma) formation at both tissue and cellular levels. Although these two types of cell death exhibited a distinct pattern of progression at the tissue level, the set of intracellular events was highly conserved. From those comprehensive investigations, we hypothesized that the identical program of death functions in each process of cell death, and that the initiation and progression of cell death is highly regulated by the environmental input.
12200488	PgiC, a complex gene with 23 coding exons and 22 intervening introns, encodes the cytosolic isozyme of phosphoglucose isomerase (EC 5.3.1.9) in higher plants. Here, we report RNA ligase-mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends experiments that showed that PgiC in Clarkia (Onagraceae) and Arabidopsis thaliana has an intron in the 5' leader. Comparison of the EMBL accessions of the cDNA and genomic sequences showed that this is also the case in rice (Oryza sativa), suggesting that a leader intron is generally present in higher plant PgiC. The intron is bounded by consensus 5'-GT and AG-3' splice sites but showed alternative splicing in Clarkia, resulting in mature transcripts that differ by 8-19 nt in length. The intron is located 18 or 10 nt upstream of the start codon in Clarkia, 2 nt upstream in Arabidopsis, and 9 nt in rice. PgiC in Clarkia was duplicated before the divergence of the extant species, many of which have two expressed genes PgiC1 and PgiC2. Full-length transcripts of both genes identified the transcription start and made it possible to identify the leader intron and leader exon (between the transcription start and leader intron) from previously obtained genomic sequences of both genes in other Clarkia species. These data permit the comparison of evolution in the leader exon and intron with the exons and introns of the coding region, a topic that has not been studied previously. Both the leader exon and the leader intron resemble introns of the coding region in base substitution rate and accumulation of gaps. But the leader intron splice junctions are not strictly conserved in position as are those of the coding region introns. Also, in base composition, the leader intron resembles the other introns, whereas the leader exon more nearly resembles the coding exons. A difference in base composition between coding exons and flanking introns is known to be important for the recognition of splice sites. Thus, the marked difference in base composition between the leader exon and leader intron is probably maintained by selection despite a high rate of sequence divergence.
12200859	Complete diallel crosses with 7 varieties of indica black pericarp rice were conducted to analyze the genetic effects on grain shape traits such as 100-grain weight, grain length, grain width and length/width and their genetic correlations with main mineral elements of Fe, Zn, Mn and P contents in kernels of parents and their F1s and F2s, by using the full genetic model including seed, cytoplasmic and maternal effects on quantitative traits of seeds in cereal crops. The results indicated that the grain shape traits were controlled by seed direct genetic effects, maternal genetic effects as well as by cytoplasmic effects. The seed direct genetic effects were more important than the maternal genetic effects for grain shape traits, and seed direct additive effects constituted a major part of their genetic effects. The narrow heritabilities of seed direct effects were high for 100-grain weight, grain width and grain length/grain width, while those of seed and maternal effects were intermediate for grain length. Therefore, more attention should be paid to the single seed selection on the 100-grain weight, grain width and grain length/grain width in early generations of hybrid offspring, while in the case of grain length, attention should be paid to single plant selection and single seed selection in late generations. The results also showed that there existed significant genetic correlations of seed direct additive, seed direct dominance, cytoplasm, maternal additive and maternal dominance between most of grain shape traits such as 100-grain weight, grain length, grain width, grain length/grain width and main mineral elements of Fe, Zn, Mn and P contents in grains. The improvement for nutrient quality traits of main mineral elements Fe, Zn, Mn and P contents in indica black pericarp rice could be realized by the indirect selection of grain shape traits in speciality rice quality breeding.
12200861	S-b is one locus for F1 pollen sterility in cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), and the genotype of Taichung 65 (abridged as T65) is Sj/Sj, while its isogenic line, TISL2 is Si/Si at this locus. The results of pollen fertility analysis showed that the pollen of T65 and TISL2 were fertile, but the F1 plant from T65 x TISL2 produced only 40.6% fertile pollens, and the type of sterile pollen was stainable abortive. In F2 population from the cross T65 x TISL2 and BC1F1 population from the cross T65/TISL2/T65, the individuals could be classified into plants with normal pollens and plants with semi-sterile pollens, and the ratio of number of these two types of plants agreed well with the Mendel segregation ratio in 1:1. A total of 53 fertile F2 plants were testcrossed with T65, and all of them showed sterility F1 pollen in. These results demonstrate that the F1 pollen sterility is controlled by a single gene locus S-b, and the allelic interaction of S-bi and S-bj causes the pollen carrying S-bj allele abortive. A total of 187 RFLP markers and 500 RAPD primers were used to screen the polymorphism between T65 and TISL2; only H08-1300 and Y09-1500, two bands amplified by RAPD primer H08 and Y09 were found to be polymorphic. Purified H08-1300 and Y09-1500 were used as probe to hybridize with DNAs from T65 and TISL2, and the results indicated that H08-1300 and Y09-1500 appeared to be single copy in the T65 and TISL2 genome, then the RAPD marker were successfully converted into RFLP marker. The two markers were then used to perform segregation analysis, the results from co-segregation analysis of the genotypes of these two markers and the phenotypes of pollen fertility with F2 population indicated that the S-b was linked to H08-1300 and Y09-1500, and the genetic distances between each marker and the locus were 1.3 cM and 6.6 cM, respectively. To determine the chromosomal position of the S-b locus, H08-1300 was cloned and its two ends were partially sequenced. The homologous comparative analysis of these sequences with published rice sequences with BLAST was performed, and 540 bp of left end sequence of H08-1300 showed 86% homologous with the sequence of rice PAC clone P0033D06 (Accession No. AC079357), and 94% homologies of 101 bp at right end were also observed. Clone P0033D06 had been anchored by RFLP markers R3166 that was located on 18.8 cM position of rice chromosome 5 by Japan Rice Genome Program, which suggested that the S-b locus was mapped on chromosome 5 and tightly linked with R3166. The gene mapping result from this study suggests that using the rice genomic sequences published to determine the chromosome position of RAPD marker, as well as linked genes, would be a useful approach in tagging new genes.
12201590	To identify areas endemic for Brugia timori infection, a field survey was carried out in 2001 on Alor, East Nusa Tenggara Timor, Indonesia. Elephantiasis was reported on this island by villagers as a major health problem. Bancroftian filariasis was detected in four villages in the coastal area, whereas B. timori was identified in four rice-farming villages. No mixed infections with both species were found. In the highland village Mainang (elevation = 880 m), 586 individuals were examined for B. timori infection and 157 (27%) microfilaria carriers were detected. The prevalence of microfilaremic individuals standardized by sex and age was 25%. The geometric mean microfilarial density of microfilaremic individuals was 138 microfilariae/ml. Among teenagers and adults, males tended to have a higher microfilarial prevalence than females. Microfilaria prevalence increased with age and a maximum was observed in the fifth decade of life. In infected individuals, the microfilarial density increased rapidly and high levels were observed in those individuals 11-20 years old. The highest microfilaria density was found in a 27-year-old woman (6,028 microfilariae/ml). Brugia timori on Alor was nocturnally periodic, but in patients with high parasite loads, a small number of microfilariae was also detected in the day blood. The disease rate was high and many persons reported a history of acute filarial attacks. Seventy-seven (13%) individuals showed lymphedema of the leg that occasionally presented severe elephantiasis. No hydrocele or genital lymphedema were observed. This study showed that B. timori infection is not restricted to the lowland and indicated that it might have a wider distribution in the lesser Sunda archipelago than previously assumed.
12202040	We predict regulatory targets for 14 Arabidopsis microRNAs (miRNAs) by identifying mRNAs with near complementarity. Complementary sites within predicted targets are conserved in rice. Of the 49 predicted targets, 34 are members of transcription factor gene families involved in developmental patterning or cell differentiation. The near-perfect complementarity between plant miRNAs and their targets suggests that many plant miRNAs act similarly to small interfering RNAs and direct mRNA cleavage. The targeting of developmental transcription factors suggests that many plant miRNAs function during cellular differentiation to clear key regulatory transcripts from daughter cell lineages.
12203890	Employing classical two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE), amino acid sequencing and immunoblot analysis, we examine for the first time the effect of ozone, a highly notorious environmental pollutant, on rice seedling proteins. Drastic visible necrotic damage to leaf by ozone and consequent increase in ascorbate peroxidase protein(s) was accompanied by rapid changes in the 2-DE protein profiles, over controls. Out of a total of 56 proteins investigated, which were reproducible in repeated experiments, 52 protein spots were visually identified as differentially expressed over controls. Six proteins were N-terminally blocked, and the sequence of 14 proteins could not be determined, whereas 36 proteins were N-terminally and one was internally sequenced. Ozone caused drastic reductions in the major leaf photosynthetic proteins, including the abundantly present ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase, and induction of various defense/stress related proteins. Most prominent change in leaves, within 24 h post-treatment with ozone, was the induced accumulation of a pathogenesis related (PR) class 5 protein, three PR 10 class proteins, ascorbate peroxidase(s), superoxide dismutase, calcium-binding protein, calreticulin, a novel ATP-dependent CLP protease, and an unknown protein. Present results demonstrate the highly damaging effect of ozone on rice seedlings at the level of the proteome.
12203916	The dynamic changes of genetic effects, including main effects, and genotype x environment (GE) interaction effects on brown rice thickness (BRT) across environments were investigated by using the developmental genetic models. Seven cytoplasmic male sterile lines of indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) as females and five restoring lines as males were used in a factorial design to produce grains of F(1)s and F(2)s in two environments (years) for developmental genetic analysis. The results indicate that genetic effects, especially GE interaction effects of triploid endosperm genes, cytoplasm genes, and diploid maternal plant genes were important to the performance of BRT at various filling stages of rice. The BRT was genetically controlled by the net genetic effects of genes expressed at the early and late filling stages (1-7 days and 15-21 days after flowering, respectively). The differences in net genetic effects under different environments for endosperm, cytoplasm, and maternal plant genes were found, and the net GE interaction effects were more important to BRT at the early filling and mature stages of rice. Some net genetic effects, especially for net cytoplasm effects spasmodically expressed, were detected among filling stages. Higher additive and cytoplasm main effects, along with their interaction effects, were found, which would be useful for selection for BRT in breeding programs. The predicated genetic effects at different filling stages show that the parents of V20 and Xieqingzao were better than others for improving BRT of progenies.
12205745	A 41-year-old woman with a 2-month history of diffused swelling and persistent dull pain in her right shoulder was examined. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings revealed subdeltoid bursitis and rice bodies with normal surrounding tissue and shoulder joint. Arthoscopic debridement and biopsy of the subdeltoid bursa were performed. Histologic examination of the bursal tissue showed granulomatous tissue with typical caseous necrosis. A positive culture of Mycobacterium tuberculosis confirmed the diagnosis of tuberculosis. We report on the clinical, radiological and athological findings in a patient with tuberculous subdeltoid bursitis accompanied by multiple rice body formation without coexisting active bone and joint tuberculosis, and conduct a literature review.
1220617	The nutritional value and proximate chemical composition of five samples of rice bran taken from different varieties of rice grown in Venezuela was studied. Thiamin, niacin, riboflavin and tryptophan, lysine, methionine and cystine were analyzed. The apparent protein digestibility was between 59 an 74%, and the Protein Efficiency Ratio (PER) between 1.19 and 2.31. The supplementation with threonine increased the Protein Efficiency Ratio in 12%, but supplementation with tryptophan did not improve it neither alone nor combined with threonine. Combinations with corn and soyflour that simulate formulas for infants showed that there is a protein supplementation in these mixtures. Some combinations with corn, soy flour, and rice bran had the same P.E.R. as casein. The rice bran is an excellent source of vitamins and minerals in these combinations. The results showed that rice bran has potential value for human consumption.
12207219	In this study we describe a 239-kb region on the long arm of rice chromosome 10 that contains a high density (71%) of locally duplicated genes, including 24 copies of a glutathione S-transferase gene. Intriguingly, embedded within this cluster is a large insertion (approximately 33 kb) of rice (Oryza sativa) chloroplast DNA that is derived from two separate regions of the chloroplast genome. We used DNA fiber-based fluorescence in situ hybridization (fiber-FISH) analyses of O. sativa spp. japonica nuclei to confirm that the insertion of organellar DNA was not a cloning artifact. The sequence of the chloroplast insertion is nearly identical (99.7% identity) to the corresponding regions in the published rice chloroplast genome sequence, suggesting that the transfer event occurred recently. PCR amplification and sequence analysis in two subspecies of rice, O. sativa spp. japonica and spp. indica, indicates that the transfer event predated the divergence of these two subspecies. The chloroplast insertion is flanked by a 2.1-kb perfect direct repeat that is unique to this location in the rice genome.
12207224	Aluminum toxicity is the main factor limiting the productivity of crop plants in acid soils, particularly in the tropics and subtropics. In this study, a doubled-haploid population derived from the rice (Oryza sativa L.) breeding lines CT9993 and IR62266 was used to map genes controlling Al tolerance. A genetic linkage map consisting of 280 DNA markers (RFLP, AFLP and SSR) was constructed to determine the position and nature of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting Al tolerance. Three characters - control root length (CRL), Al-stressed root length (SRL) and root length ratio (RR) - were evaluated for the DH lines and the parents at the seedling stage in nutrient solution. A total of 20 QTLs controlling root growth under Al stress and control conditions were detected and distributed over 10 of the 12 rice chromosomes, reflecting multigenic control of these traits. The two QTLs of largest effect, qALRR-1-1 and qALRR-8 for root length ratio (a measurement of Al tolerance) were localized on chromosomes 1 and 8, respectively. Three other QTLs in addition to qALRR-8 were apparently unique in the CT9993 x IR62266 mapping population, which may explain the high level of Al tolerance in CT9993. Comparative mapping identified a conserved genomic region on chromosome 1 associated with Al tolerance across three rice genetic backgrounds. This region provides an important starting point for isolating genes responsible for different mechanisms of aluminum tolerance and understanding the genetic nature of this trait in rice and other cereals.
12207465	The steryl ferulate contents of rye and wheat grains and their milling fractions were analyzed using a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method. HPLC-mass spectrometry was used for identification. In addition, steryl ferulates of some selected milling byproducts were determined. The total steryl ferulate contents of rye and wheat grains were 6.0 and 6.3 mg/100 g, respectively. Uneven distribution of steryl ferulates in the grains led to considerable differences in the milling products; their steryl ferulate contents ranged from trace amounts in flours with low ash content to 20 and 34 mg/100 g in rye and wheat brans, respectively. Campestanyl ferulate and sitostanyl ferulate were the main components, followed by campesteryl ferulate and sitosteryl ferulate, whereas sitosterol was the main component in total sterols. Among the other samples, a byproduct of rice milling (pearling dust) was the best source of steryl ferulates, its total steryl ferulate content being 119 mg/100 g, whereas no measurable amounts of steryl ferulates were measured in oat bran or pearling dust of barley. The results indicated that rye and wheat and especially their bran fractions are comparable to corn as steryl ferulate sources.
12207469	The distribution of chemical constituents is known not to be even within a rice kernel. To improve the eating quality of rice or to give it some special traits by adjusting the milling intensity, we investigated the distribution of amylose, nitrogen (N), and specific minerals (P, K, Mg, Ca, and Mn) in rice kernels of 11 cultivars with various characteristics cultivated under similar conditions. The distributions of these constituents were determined using flour samples prepared consecutively by abrasive milling from the outer to the inner portions of hulled rice. In all the cultivars tested, N and the minerals were found to be more abundant in the outer than in the inner portion, but amylose was rich in the inner portion. P, Mg, K, and Mn were extremely rich in the outer portion, while N and Ca were only relatively rich there. Koshihikari, which is the most popular cultivar in Japan because of its excellent eating quality, showed the highest Mg/K ratio in the outermost portion of polished rice. The color of flour samples became pure white going from outside portions toward the center of the kernel, even if the sample was from red rice or purple-black rice because only the surface of hulled rice contains pigments. These findings suggest that the outer portion contains various compounds other than starch and the inner portion contains relatively pure starch. Rice palatability and other characteristics can be improved through controlling the degree of milling using the biased distribution of chemical constituents within a rice kernel.
12207666	In our search to identify gene(s) involved in the rice self-defense responses, we cloned a novel rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) gene, OsATX, a single copy gene, from the JA treated rice seedling leaves cDNA library. This gene encodes a 69 amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 7649.7 and a pI of 5.6. OsATX was responsive to cutting (wounding by cutting the excised leaf), over its weak constitutive expression in the healthy leaves. The critical signalling molecules, jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), abscisic acid (ABA), and hydrogen peroxide, together with protein phosphatase inhibitors, effectively up-regulated the OsATX expression with time, over the excised leaf cut control, whereas ethylene had no affect. Furthermore, copper, a heavy metal, also up-regulated OsATX expression. Moreover, induced expression of OsATX mRNA was influenced by light signal(s), and showed a requirement for de novo synthesized protein factors. Additionally, co-application of either JA or ABA with SA drastically suppressed the induced OsATX mRNA level. Finally, the blast pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea, triggered OsATX mRNA accumulation. These results strongly suggest a function/role(s) for OsATX in defense/stress responses in rice.
12207893	The antioxidant beverage EM-X is derived from the ferment of unpolished rice, papaya, and sea-weeds with effective microorganisms. Oxidative stress enhances the expression of proinflammatory genes, causing the release of the chemokine interleukin-8 (IL-8), which mediates a multitude of inflammatory events. Human alveolar epithelial cells (A549) were treated with H(2)O(2) (100 microM) or TNF-alpha (10ng/ml) alone or with the addition of EM-X (100 microl/ml), incubated for 20h, and the release of IL-8, measured using ELISA. EM-X inhibited the release of IL-8 at the transcriptional level in A549 cells. EM-X also decreased the iron/ascorbate dependent peroxidation of ox-brain phospholipids in a concentration dependent manner. A TEAC value of 0.10+/-0.05mM was obtained for EM-X, indicating antioxidant potential. We suggest that the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties of EM-X are dependent on the flavonoid contents of the beverage.
12207894	Glutaredoxin (Grx) is a 12-kDa thioltransferase that reduces disulfide bonds of other proteins and maintains the redox potential of cells. In addition to its oxidoreductase activity, we report here that a rice Grx (OsGrx) can also function as a GSH-dependent peroxidase. Because of this antioxidant activity, OsGrx protects glutamine synthetase from oxidative damage. Individually replacing the conserved Cys residues in OsGrx with Ser shows that Cys(23), but not Cys(26), is essential for the thioltransferase and GSH-dependent peroxidase activities. Kinetic characterization of OsGrx reveals that the maximal catalytic efficiency (V(max)/K(m)) is obtained with cumene hydroperoxide rather than H(2)O(2) or t-butyl hydroperoxide.
12207900	Plants possess several defense mechanisms against pathogenic attack. One of these defenses is the use of protease inhibitor proteins, which interfere in the development and growth of pathogens. Sugarcane productivity can be impacted by the plant's susceptibility to fungal diseases that result in production losses. A relevant line of investigation, therefore, is into the plant's natural defense mechanisms for the control of phytopathogens using cystatins-proteins that specifically inhibit cysteine proteases. In this paper, we discuss the expression, in Escherichia coli, of a sugarcane cystatin, its purification, antifungal activity, and circular dichroism to monitor correct folding. These studies revealed a secondary structure similar to that of the oryzacystatin I of rice. Moreover, the purified protein proved capable of inhibiting the growth of the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei, suggesting that it can also be employed to inhibit the growth of pathogenic sugarcane fungi.
12209252	The diversity of indigenous Azospirillum spp. associated with rice cultivated along the coastline of Tamil Nadu was analyzed. Twelve sites with varying soil characteristics such as salinity, texture, and the host variety were chosen. Of the 402 strains isolated using NFB media, 302 were confirmed to be Azospirillum spp. and subjected to DNA polymorphism analysis using PCR-RFLP of 16S rDNA. They were also screened for their salt tolerance and microaerobic N2-fixing-dependent growth. On species identification, all the strains were found to be A. brasilense, A. lipoferum, or unidentified. On comparing the influence of the previously noted variability on the indigenous population, soil salinity was found to play a dominant role. This was revealed by PCR-RFLP studies and salt tolerance studies. A high association between soil salinity and the distribution of Azospirillum genotypes reveals that soil salinity should be taken into consideration while developing biofertilizers specifically for the coastal agricultural ecosystem.
1221020
12210623	This paper aims to propose a penalized likelihood approach to estimate a smooth mean curve for the evolution with time of a Gaussian variable taking into account the correlation structure of longitudinal data. The model is an extension of the mixed effects linear model including an unspecified function of time f(t). The estimator (circumflex)f(t) is defined as the solution of the maximization of the penalized likelihood and is approximated on a basis of cubic M-spline with a reduced number of knots. We present modifications of four criteria (cross-validation, generalized cross-validation, T of Rice, Akaike's criterion) to estimate the smoothing parameter when data are correlated; these four criteria gave very similar results in the simulation study. The simulation study showed also the superiority of the Bayesian confidence bands of the mean curve over the frequentist ones. We develop empirical Bayes estimates of subject-specific deviations. This approach was applied to study the progression of CD4+ lymphocyte counts in a cohort of HIV patients treated with protease inhibitors.
12212228	Three types of culture medium that stimulated Candida albicans to form chlamydospore were compared with the improved rice soup culture medium. The results were that the effect of the improved rice soup culture medium on stimulating C. albicans to form chlamydospore was better than the effects of others; a large number of chlamydospores could be gotten in 18 h. The results indicate that this method, the improved rice soup culture medium, is easy, simple, and economic. A method for making the teaching slide of C. albicans forming chlamydospore was also introduced.
12212843	Bt-transgenics of elite indica rice breeding lines (IR-64, Pusa Basmati-1 and Karnal Local) were generated through biolistic or Agrobacterium-mediated approaches. A synthetic cry1Ac gene, codon optimised for rice and driven by the maize ubiquitin-1 promoter, was used. Over 200 putative transformants of IR-64 and Pusa Basmati-1 and 26 of the Karnal Local were regenerated following use of the hpt (hygromycin phosphotransferase) selection system. Initial transformation frequency was in the range of 1 to 2% for particle bombardment while it was comparatively higher (approximately 9%) for Agrobacterium. An improved selection procedure, involving longer selection on the antibiotic-supplemented medium, enhanced the frequency of Bt-transformants and reduced the number of escapes. Molecular evaluation revealed multiple transgene insertions in transformants, whether generated through biolistic or Agrobacterium. In the latter case, it was also observed that all genes on the T-DNA do not necessarily get transferred as an intact insert. Selected Bt-lines of IR-64 and Pusa Basmati-1, having Bt-titers of 0.1% (of total soluble protein) and above were evaluated for resistance against manual infestation of freshly hatched neonate larvae of yellow stem borers collected from a hot spot stem borer infested area in northern India. Several Bt-lines were identified showing 100% mortality of larvae, within 4-days of infestation, in cut-stem as well as vegetative stage whole plant assays. However, there was an occasional white head even among such plants when assayed at the reproductive stage. Results are discussed in the light of resistance management strategies for deployment of Bt-rice.
12213233	Sap-sucking phytophagous insect species of the order Hemiptera have been assumed not to carry out digestive proteolysis, but instead to rely on free amino acids in the phloem and xylem saps for their nutritional requirements. Extracts prepared from isolated guts of rice brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens), a homopteran crop pest, were shown to contain protease activity, with hydrolysis of both protein and synthetic peptide substrates being observed. Assays with specific inhibitors suggested that a trypsin-like serine protease was responsible for most of hydrolytic activity against synthetic substrates. A cDNA library was prepared from RNA extracted from N. lugens gut tissue, and screened for protease-encoding sequences. cDNAs for a cathepsin B-like protease and a trypsin-like protease were isolated and fully characterised; the latter exhibits a novel C-terminal region and an unusual activation mechanism, and represents a small gene family. Soya bean Kunitz trypsin inhibitor (SKTI) is an effective inhibitor of protein hydrolysis by N. lugens gut extracts in vitro, explaining why transgenic rice plants expressing this protein are partially resistant to the insect (Mol. Breed. 5 (1999) 1). It is suggested that digestive proteolysis may be widespread in sap-sucking homoptera, and can make a significant contribution to nutrition.
12213236	PCR techniques were used to clone and identify cDNAs for ecdysone receptor A and B1 (EcR-A and EcR-B1) isoforms from the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis. They differ only in the N-terminal A/B regions and show high sequence identities to other insects' EcRs. At the wandering stage, EcR-B1 mRNA was expressed more abundantly in the midgut than in the epidermis and fat body, whereas expression levels of EcR-A mRNA were similar in the three tissues. In the epidermis of the last instar larvae, the maximal mRNA expression of both EcR-A and EcR-B1 was observed from the wandering to prepupal stages prior to the peak of ecdysteroid titer in the hemolymph. In gel mobility shift assays, in vitro translated C. suppressalis EcR-B1 (CsEcR-B1) and Bombyx mori ultraspiracle (BmUSP) proteins bound to the Pal 1 and Drosophila melanogaster hsp27 ecdysone response element as a heterodimer. These results indicate that the cDNAs isolated here encode functional ecdysone receptors.
12213929	Type II methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) were isolated from diverse environments, including rice paddies, pristine and polluted freshwaters and sediments, mangrove roots, upland soils, brackish water ecosystems, moors, oil wells, water purification systems and livestock manure. Isolates were identified based on morphological traits as either Methylocystis spp., Methylosinus sporium or Methylosinus trichosporium. Molecular phylogenies were constructed based on nearly complete 16S rRNA gene sequences, and on partial sequences of genes encoding PmoA (a subunit of particulate methane monooxygenase), MxaF (a subunit of methanol dehydrogenase) and MmoX (a subunit of soluble methane monooxygenase). The maximum pairwise 16S rDNA difference between isolates was 4.2%, and considerable variability was evident within the Methylocystis (maximum difference 3.6%). Due to this variability, some of the published 'specific' oligonucleotide primers for type II MOB exhibit multiple mismatches with gene sequences from some isolates. The phylogenetic tree constructed from pmoA gene sequences closely mirrored that constructed from 16S rDNA sequences, and both supported the presently accepted taxonomy of type II MOB. Contrary to previously published phylogenetic trees, morphologically distinguishable species were generally monophyletic based on pmoA or 16S rRNA gene sequences. This was not true for phylogenies constructed from mmoX and mxaF gene sequences. The phylogeny of mxaF gene sequences suggested that horizontal transfer of this gene may have occurred across type II MOB species. Soluble methane monooxygenase could not be detected in many Methylocystis strains either by an enzyme activity test (oxidation of naphthalene) or by PCR-based amplification of an mmoX gene.
12214320	This article presents and overviews the CHIMERA program package, which provides a user-friendly graphical interface between quantum chemistry and chemical kinetics programs. CHIMERA facilitates calculations of rate constants for gas-phase reactions using transition state and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theories. The program includes computational modules for simulation of gas-phase kinetics using simplified reactor models and for computation of chemical equilibria. The review includes a description of the theory implemented in the code, the program description, the general strategy of calculations using CHIMERA, and illustrative examples of the program application.
12215778	A chimeric gene (l 104 bp) coding for rice fructose-l,6-bisphosphate aldolase has been constructed by DNA recombination of a synthetic 5'- fragment (-24 to 272) and an RT-PCR amplified product at restriction site S fu I. The synthetic fragment was assembled from six oligonucleotides by T4 DNA ligase reaction according to a single-stranded DNA method (Chen H-B et al, Nucleic Acids Res 1990, 18, 871-878), the PCR amplified fragment (217 - 1 080) was obtained by carrying out a PCR in the presence of rice cDNA as the template and both the 5'- and the 3'- primers. The whole gene was successively cloned into plasmids pWR13 and pPLc2833, and highly expressed in E. coli to produce the expected product. After purification through stepwise precipitation and cation-exchange column chromatography, the recombinant aldolase showed an enzyme activity as high as (1l.0 +/- 0.3) units/mg with the turnover number = 27s(-1) and K(m) (FBP)=4.2 &mgr;M by two different methods.
12216394	By using spectroradiameter, canopy spectral characteristics such as reflection rate (alpha), absorption rate (tau), transmission rate (beta), and extinction coefficient(K) of different rice varieties were analyzed and compared. The results showed the canopy spectral characteristics were significantly different among different rice varieties, especially under blue radiation (400-510 nm). In addition, these dissimilarities were more obvious in the late stage of growth period.
12216396	Rice blast is one of the main rice diseases. In order to discuss the occurrence regularity and improve the veracity of forecasting, the effects of ecological factors on infecting process, such as rice growth period, cultivar resistance, temperature, precipitation, and fertilization of nitrogen, were studied quantitatively. The results showed that adhering conidia on leaves, or ratio of infection was negatively correlative with the growth period of rice. The latent period of Pyricularia grisea was closely related to temperature, and within the range from 10 degrees C to 33 degrees C, the latent period was the shortest at 28 degrees C. The ratio of conidia adhering on leaves was also closely related to precipitation, especially the intensity and duration of precipitation in the first 5 hours after conidia contacting leaves, and there was no obvious effect after 5 hours. Under certain conditions, the ratio of expansive lesions to non-expansive lesions, the maximum area of expansive lesions, and variety resistance of rice were related to the rank of leaves.
12216399	To quantitatively investigate the effects of environmental factors on organic carbon decomposition, CO2-C was measured from the incubation of wheat and rice straw as well as their roots mixed with a paddy soil over a 90-day period. Results showed that decomposition of the straw carbon was faster than that of the roots. Amount of CO2-C released from the organic matter decomposition was quantitatively related to its properties of C/N ratio. Increase of temperature within a lower temperature range enhanced greatly the decomposition while such an enhancement weakened within a higher temperature range. Under the moist condition, the temperature coefficient of organic carbon decomposition declined exponentially with the incubation time. The temperature coefficient did not significantly decrease with the time for the submerged condition after one-week incubation. The effect of water status showed that the decomposition at the water contents of 300 g.kg-1 and 500 g.kg-1 was faster than that under the treatments of 200 g.kg-1 and the submerged. Within the first month period of incubation, carbon amount released from the incubation of wheat straw was negatively related to the clay fraction of the soils.
12216811	The rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, is the most destructive insect pest of rice in the United States. As part of an effort to develop strategies to manage this pest, the ovipositional and feeding habits of L. oryzophilus on rice plants subjected to different flooding treatments were characterized in greenhouse studies. Presence and depth of flood had a direct influence on the ovipositional behavior of weevils in no-choice studies. More eggs were found in flooded plants than in unflooded plants. Moreover, plants flooded to a depth of 5.1 cm received more eggs than plants flooded to depths of 1.3 or 10.2 cm. Presence and depth of flood influenced both the proportion of females that oviposited in plants and the number of eggs laid by those females that did oviposit. In choice studies, female weevils showed a marked ovipositional preference for plants flooded to a depth of 10.2 cm over unflooded plants and plants flooded to a depth of 1.3 cm. In separate choice experiments, adult rice water weevils fed more on flooded plants than on unflooded plants. In a third set of experiments, flooded plants were taller and had higher concentrations of 10 of 13 plant nutrients than unflooded plants. Thus, flooding may influence rice water weevil behavior both directly, by acting as a stimulus for feeding or oviposition, and indirectly, by inducing changes in the suitability of rice plants for feeding or oviposition. These data suggest that it may be possible to manipulate populations of weevils in rice by changing water management practices.
12219079	Modification of genes through homologous recombination, termed gene targeting, is the most direct method to characterize gene function. In higher plants, however, the method is far from a common practice. Here we describe an efficient and reproducible procedure with a strong positive/negative selection for gene targeting in rice, which feeds more than half of the world's population and is an important model plant. About 1% of selected calli and their regenerated fertile plants were heterozygous at the targeted locus, and only one copy of the selective marker used was found at the targeted site in their genomes. The procedure's applicability to other genes will make it feasible to obtain various gene-targeted lines of rice.
12219802	When the sentence She ran her best time yet in the rice last week is displayed using rapid serial visual presentation, viewers sometimes misread rice as race (M. C. Potter, A. Moryadas, I. Abrams, & A. Noel, 1993). Seven experiments combined misreading and repetition blindness (RB) paradigms to determine whether misreading of a word because of biasing sentence context represents a genuine perceptual effect. In Experiments 1-4, misreading a word either caused or prevented RB for a downstream word, depending on whether orthographic similarity was increased or decreased. Additional experiments examined temporal parameters of misreading RB and tested the hypothesis that RB results from reconstructive memory processes. Results suggest that the effect of prior context occurs during perception.
12220534	Magnaporthe grisea is a fungal pathogen that infects rice leaves and causes rice blast, a devastating crop disease. M. grisea produces active elicitors of the hypersensitive response in rice that were previously identified as ceramide monohexosides (CMHs). Using several chromatographic approaches, mass spectrometry, and nuclear magnetic resonance, we identified ceramide mono- and dihexosides (CDH) in purified lipid extracts from M. grisea cells. As described by other authors, CMH consists of a ceramide moiety containing 9-methyl-4,8-sphingadienine in amidic linkage to 2-hydroxyoctadecenoic or 2-hydroxyhexadecenoic acids and a carbohydrate segment consisting of one residue of glucose. CDHs, however, contain beta-galactose (1-->4)-linked to beta-glucose as sugar units and phytosphingosine as the long-chain base, bound to a C24 alpha-hydroxylated fatty acid. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the occurrence of CDH in a fungal species and illustrates the existence of an alternative path of ceramide glycosylation in fungal cells.
12220657	Alternative oxidase (AOX) is encoded in a multigene family, and multiple isoforms have been observed in various plant species. We found for the first time an allelic variation in the same AOX locus. On SDS-gel blots of callus protein of rice (Oryza sativa L.), varieties without the QTL for low temperature tolerance showed a 32-kDa AOX band, whereas those with the QTL showed a 34-kDa band. The variation was attributed to the substitution of Lys(71) for Asn(71) caused by a single nucleotide polymorphism between alleles of OsAOX1a, and was tightly linked to the presence of the QTL.
12221200	The effects of beta-glucan, soy protein, isoflavones, plant sterols and stanols, garlic and tocotrienols on serum lipoproteins have been of great interest the last decade. From a critical review of the literature, it appeared that recent studies found positive as well as no effects of beta-glucan from oats on serum LDL cholesterol concentrations. These conflicting results may suggest that the cholesterol-lowering activity of products rich in oat beta-glucan depends on factors, such as its viscosity in the gastrointestinal tract, the food matrix and/or food processing. The effects of beta-glucan from barley or yeast on the lipoprotein profile are promising, but more human trials are needed to further substantiate these effects. It is still not clear whether the claimed hypocholesterolemic effects of soy can be attributed solely to the isoflavones. Several studies found no changes in serum LDL cholesterol concentrations after consumption of isolated soy isoflavones (without soy protein), indicating that a combination of soy protein and isoflavones may be needed for eliciting a cholesterol-lowering effect of soy. Therefore, the exact (combination of) active ingredients in soy products need to be identified. The daily consumption of 2-3 g of plant sterols or stanols reduces LDL cholesterol concentrations by 9-14%. It has been demonstrated that functional foods enriched with plant sterols and stanols are effective in various population groups, and in combination with cholesterol-lowering diets or drugs. Whether garlic or garlic preparations can be used as a lipid-lowering agent is still uncertain. It is important to characterize the active components in garlic and their bioavailability after ingestion. It is not very likely that tocotrienols from palm oil or rice bran oil have favorable effects on the human serum lipoprotein profile.
12221297
12221982	Rapid progress in rice genomics is making it possible to undertake detailed structural and functional comparisons of genes involved in various biological processes among rice and other plant species, such as Arabidopsis. In this review, we summarize the current status of rice genomics. We then select two important areas of research, reproductive development and defense signaling, and compare the functions of rice and orthologous genes in other species involved in these processes. The analysis revealed that apparently orthologous genes can also display divergent functions. Changes in functions and regulation of orthologous genes may represent a basis for diversity among plant species. Such comparative genomics in other plant species will provide important information for future work on the evolution of higher plants.
12222792	Several methods were examined to minimize crops injury caused by herbicides. Thus increase their selectivity. A selective herbicide is one that controls weeds at rates that do not injure the crop. Herbicides are selective in a particular crop within certain limits imposed by the herbicide, the plant, the application rate, the method and time of application, and environment conditions. Herbicide safeners are compounds of diverse chemical families. They are applied with herbicides to protect crops against their injury. Using chemical safeners offer practical, efficient and simple method of improving herbicide selectivity. This method has been applied successfully in cereal crops such as maize, rice and sorghum, against pre-emergence thiocarbamate and chloroacetanilide herbicides. Some reports indicate promising results for the development of safeners for post-emergence herbicides in broadleaved crops. Various hypotheses were proposed explaining mechanisms of action of herbicide safeners: interference with uptake and translocation of the herbicide, alteration in herbicide metabolism, and competition at site of action of the herbicide. Even though progress was made in the development of herbicide safeners and in understanding their mechanisms of action, more research is needed to elucidate clearly how these chemicals act and why their activity is restricted to particular crops and herbicides.
12223095	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) is a key enzyme in photosynthesis and photorespiration. The inactivation and subsequent conformational changes and dissociation of rice Rubisco by SDS have been studied. At low SDS concentrations (0.4 mM), Rubisco completely lost its carboxylase activity and most of its sulfhydryl groups became exposed. Dissociation of small subunits and significant conformational changes occurred at higher SDS concentrations. Increasing SDS concentrations caused only slight changes in CD spectrum, indicating no significant effect of SDS on the secondary structure of the enzyme. The results prove that the active site of Rubisco is more fragile to denaturants than the protein as a whole. The results also suggest that small subunits are more liable to SDS denaturation and thus dissociate first, while the more hydrophobic large subunits remain complexed. The naturally existing hydrophobic surface of Rubisco may be an important factor in the interaction of Rubisco with other macromolecules.
12223592	Repair of cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) in DNA is essential in most organisms to prevent biological damage by ultraviolet (UV) light. In higher plants tested thus far, UV-sensitive strains had higher initial damage levels or deficient repair of nondimer DNA lesions but normal CPD repair. This suggested that CPDs might not be important for biological lesions. The photosynthetic apparatus has also been proposed as a critical target. We have analyzed CPD induction and repair in the UV-sensitive rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Norin 1 and its close relative UV-resistant Sasanishiki using alkaline agarose gel electrophoresis. Norin 1 is deficient in cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimer photoreactivation and excision; thus, UV sensitivity correlates with deficient dimer repair.
12223619	Intact hair cells of young rice (Oryza sativa L.) and maize roots (Zea mays L.), grown without external nitrogen, were specifically loaded with 2[prime],7[prime]-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5 (and -6)-carboxyfluorescein acetoxymethyl ester to monitor fluorescence ratio cytosolic pH changes in response to external ammonia (NH4+/NH3) application. In neutral media, cytosolic pH of root hairs was 7.15 [plus or minus] 0.13 (O. sativa) and 7.08 [plus or minus] 0.11 (Z. mays). Application of 2 mM ammonia at external pH 7.0 caused a transient cytosolic alkalization (7.5 [plus or minus] 0.15 in rice; 7.23 [plus or minus] 0.13 in maize). Alkalization increased with an increase of external pH; no pH changes occurred at external pH 5.0. The influx of 13N-labeled ammonia in both plant species did not differ between external pH 5.0 and 7.0 but increased significantly with higher pH. Pretreatment with 1 mM 1-methionine sulfoximine significantly reduced the ammonia-elicited pH increase in rice but not in maize. Application of 2 mM methylammonia only caused a cytosolic pH increase at high external pH; the increase in both species compared with the ammonia-elicited alkalization in 1-methionine sulfoximine-treated roots. The differential effects indicate that cytosolic alkalization derived from (a) NH3 protonation after passive permeation of the plasma membrane and, particularly in rice, (b) additional proton consumption via the glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase cycle.
12223665	The distribution and activity of the cell wall-loosening protein expansin is correlated with internodal growth in deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L.). Acid-induced extension of native cell walls and reconstituted extension of boiled cell walls were confined to the growing region of the internode, i.e. to the intercalary meristem (IM) and the elongation zone. Immunolocalization by tissue printing and immunoblot analysis, using antibody against cucumber expansin 29 as a probe, confirmed that rice expansin occurred primarily in the IM and elongation zone. Rice expansin was localized mainly around the vascular bundles at the base of the IM and along the inner epidermal cell layer surrounding the internodal cavity. Submergence greatly promoted the growth of rice internodes, and cell walls of submerged internodes extended much more in response to acidification than did the cell walls of air-grown internodes. Susceptibility of cell walls to added expansin was also increased in submerged internodes, and analysis by immunoblotting showed that cell walls of submerged internodes contained more expansin than did cell walls of air-grown internodes. Based on these data, we propose that expansin is involved in mediating rapid internodal elongation in submerged deepwater rice internodes.
12223690	The possible role of the octadecanoid signaling pathway with jasmonic acid (JA) as the central component in defense-gene regulation of pathogen-attacked rice was studied. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings were treated with JA or inoculated with the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr., and gene-expression patterns were compared between the two treatments. JA application induced the accumulation of a number of pathogenesis-related (PR) gene products at the mRNA and protein levels, but pathogen attack did not enhance the levels of (-)-JA during the time required for PR gene expression. Pathogen-induced accumulation of PR1-like proteins was reduced in plants treated with tetcyclacis, a novel inhibitor of jasmonate biosynthesis. There was an additive and negative interaction between JA and an elicitor from M. grisea with respect to induction of PR1-like proteins and of an abundant JA-and wound-induced protein of 26 kD, respectively. Finally, activation of the octadecanoid signaling pathway and induction of a number of PR genes by exogenous application of JA did not confer local acquired resistance to rice. The data suggest that accumulation of nonconjugated (-)-JA is not necessary for induction of PR genes and that JA does not orchestrate localized defense responses in pathogen-attacked rice. Instead, JA appears to be embedded in a signaling network with another pathogen-induced pathway(s) and may be required at a certain minimal level for induction of some PR genes.
12223699	We previously proposed that salicylic acid (SA)-sensitive catalases serve as biological targets of SA in plant defense responses. To further examine the role of SA-sensitive catalases, we have analyzed the relationship between SA levels and SA sensitivity of catalases in different rice (Oryza sativa) tissues. We show here that, whereas rice shoots contain extremely high levels of free SA, as previously reported (I. Raskin, H. Skubatz, W. Tang, B.J.D. Meeuse [1990] Ann Bot 66: 369-373; P. Silverman, M. Seskar, D. Kanter, P. Schweizer, J.-P. Metraux, I. Raskin [1995] Plant Physiol 108: 633-639), rice roots and cell-suspension cultures have very low SA levels. Catalases from different rice tissues also exhibit differences in sensitivity to SA. Catalase from rice shoots is insensitive to SA, but roots and cell-suspension cultures contain SA-sensitive catalase. The difference in SA sensitivity of catalases from these different tissues correlates with the tissue-specific expression of two catalase genes, CatA and CatB, which encode highly distinctive catalase proteins. CatA, which encodes a catalase with relatively low sequence homology to the tobacco SA-sensitive catalases, is expressed at high levels exclusively in the shoots. On the other hand, in roots and cell-suspension cultures, with northern analysis we detected expression of only the CatB gene, which encodes a catalase with higher sequence homology to tobacco catalases. The role of catalases in mediating some of the SA-induced responses is discussed in light of these results and the recently defined mechanisms of catalase inhibition by SA.
12223722	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants with decreased ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) were obtained by transformation with the rice rbcS antisense gene under the control of the rice rbcS promoter. The primary transformants were screened for the Rubisco to leaf N ratio, and the transformant with 65% wild-type Rubisco was selected as a plant set with optimal Rubisco content at saturating CO2 partial pressures for photosynthesis under conditions of high irradiance and 25[deg]C. This optimal Rubisco content was estimated from the amounts and kinetic constants of Rubisco and the gas-exchange data. The R1 selfed progeny of the selected transformant were grown hydroponically with different N concentrations. Rubisco content in the R1 population was distributed into two groups: 56 plants had about 65% wild-type Rubisco, whereas 23 plants were very similar to the wild type. Although the plants with decreased Rubisco showed 20% lower rates of light-saturated photosynthesis in normal air (36 Pa CO2), they had 5 to 15% higher rates of photosynthesis in elevated partial pressures of CO2, (100-115 Pa CO2) than the wild-type plants for a given leaf N content. We conclude that the rice plants with 65% wild-type Rubisco show a higher N-use efficiency of photosynthesis under conditions of saturating CO2 and high irradiance.
12223789	The influence of elevated CO2 on the development of the shoot apex and on subsequent vegetative growth and grain yield was investigated using rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Jarrah) grown in flooded soil at either 350 or 700 [mu]L CO2 L-1. At 8 d after planting (DAP), elevated CO2 increased the height and diameter of the apical dome and lengths of leaf primordia and tiller buds but had no effect on their numbers. By 16 DAP, there were five tiller buds in the apex at 700 [mu]L CO2 L-1 compared with only three tiller buds at 350 [mu]L CO2 L-1. These changes in development of the shoot apex at high CO2 were forerunners to faster development of the vegetative shoot at elevated CO2 between 11 and 26 DAP as evidenced by increases in the relative growth rates of the shoot and tillers. Accelerated development at high CO2 was responsible for the 42% increase in tiller number at the maximum tillering stage and the 57% enhancement of grain yield at the final harvest. The link between high CO2 effects on development during the first 15 DAP and final tiller number and grain yield was demonstrated by delaying exposure of plants to high CO2 for 15 d. The delay totally inhibited the tillering response to high CO2, and the increase in grain yield of 20% arose from a greater number of grains per panicle. Consequently, it can be concluded that accelerated development in the shoot apex early in development is crucial for obtaining maximum increases in grain yield at elevated atmospheric CO2 concentrations.
12223792	Acquired disease resistance can be induced in rice (Oryza sativa) by a number of synthetic or natural compounds, but the molecular mechanisms behind the phenomenon are poorly understood. One of the synthetic inducers of resistance, 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA), efficiently protected rice leaves from infection by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr. A comparison of gene-expression patterns in plants treated with INA versus plants inoculated with the compatible pathogen M. grisea or the incompatible pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv syringae revealed only a marginal overlap: 6 gene products, including pathogenesis-related proteins (PR1-PR9), accumulated in both INA-treated and pathogen-attacked leaves, whereas 26 other gene products accumulated only in INA-treated or only in pathogen-attacked leaves. Lipoxygenase enzyme activity and levels of nonconjugated jasmonic acid (JA) were enhanced in leaves of plants treated with a high dose of INA (100 ppm). Exogenously applied JA enhanced the gene induction and plant protection caused by lower doses of INA (0.1 to 10 ppm) that by themselves did not give rise to enhanced levels of endogenous (-)-JA. These data suggest that INA, aside from activating a pathogen-induced signaling pathway, also induces events that are not related to pathogenesis. JA acts as an enhancer of both types of INA-induced reactions in rice.
12223797	Plants accumulate a number of osmoprotective substances in response to NaCl stress, one of them being proline (Pro). While characterizing some of the changes in solute accumulation in NaCl-stressed rice (Oryza sativa L.), we identified several other potential osmoprotectants. One such substance, trehalose, begins to accumulate in small amounts in roots after 3 d. We performed a series of experiments to compare the effects of Pro and trehalose on ion accumulation to determine whether the two chemicals protect the same physiological processes. We found that Pro either has no effect or, in some cases, exasperates the effect of NaCl on growth inhibition, chlorophyll loss, and induction of a highly sensitive marker for plant stress, the osmotically regulated salT gene. By contrast, low to moderate concentrations of trehalose reduce Na+ accumulation, salT expression, and growth inhibition. Somewhat higher concentrations (10 mM) prevent NaCl-induced loss of chlorophyll in blades, preserve root integrity, and enhance growth. The results of this study indicate that during osmotic stress trehalose or carbohydrates might be more important for rice than Pro.
12223799	The effects of growth CO2 levels on the photosynthetic rates; the amounts of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), chlorophyll (Chl), and cytochrome f; sucrose phosphate synthase activity; and total N content were examined in young, fully expanded leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.). The plants were grown hydroponically under two CO2 partial pressures of 36 and 100 Pa at three N concentrations. The light-saturated photosynthesis at 36 Pa CO2 was lower in the plants grown in 100 Pa CO2 than those grown in 36 Pa CO2. Similarly, the amounts of Rubisco, Chl, and total N were decreased in the leaves of the plants grown in 100 Pa CO2. However, regression analysis showed no differences between the two CO2 treatments in the relationship between photosynthesis and total N or in the relationship between Rubisco and Chl and total N. Although a relative decrease in Rubisco to cytochrome f or sucrose phosphate synthase was found in the plants grown in 100 Pa CO2, this was the result of a decrease in total N content by CO2 enrichment. The activation state of Rubisco was also unaffected by growth CO2 levels. Thus, decreases in the photosynthetic capacity of the plants grown in 100 Pa CO2 could be simply accounted for by a decrease in the absolute amount of leaf N.
12223800	The effects of CO2 enrichment on growth and N allocation of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were examined. The plants were grown hydroponically in growth chambers with a 14-h photoperiod (1000 [mu]mol quanta m-2 s-1) and a day/night temperature of 25/20[deg]C. From the 28th to 70th d after germination, the plants were exposed to two CO2 partial pressures, namely 36 and 100 Pa. The CO2 enrichment increased the final biomass, but this was caused by a stimulation of the growth rate during the first week of the exposure to elevated CO2 partial pressures. The disappearance of the initial stimulation of the growth rate was associated with a decreased leaf area ratio. Furthermore, CO2 enrichment decreased the investment of N in the leaf blades, whereas the N allocation into the leaf sheaths and roots increased. Thus, the decrease in leaf N content by CO2 enrichment was not due to dilution of N caused by a relative increase in the plant biomass but was due to the change in N allocation at the whole-plant level. We conclude that the growth responses of rice to CO2 enrichment are mainly controlled by leaf area expansion and N allocation into leaf blades at the whole-plant level.
12223802	The possible formation of a multienzyme complex between sucrose (Suc)-phosphate synthase (SPS) and Suc-phosphate phosphatase (SPP) was examined by measuring the rates of Suc-6-phosphate (Suc-6-P) synthesis and hydrolysis in mixing experiments with partially purified enzymes from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) and rice (Oryza sativa) leaves. The addition of SPP to SPS stimulated the rate of Suc-6-P synthesis. SPS inhibited the hydrolysis of exogenous Suc-6-P by SPP when added in the absence of its substrate (i.e. UDP-glucose) but stimulated SPP activity when the SPS substrates were present and used to generate Suc-6-P directly in the reaction. Results from isotope-dilution experiments suggest that Suc-6-P was channeled between SPS and SPP. A portion of the SPS activity comigrated with SPP during native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, providing physical evidence for an enzyme-enzyme interaction. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that SPS and SPP associate to form a multienzyme complex.
12223840	L-myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase (EC 5.5.1.4) from cyanobacterial (Spirulina platensis), algal (Euglena gracilis), and higher plant (Oryza sativa, Vigna radiata) sources was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity, biochemically characterized, and compared. Both chloroplastic and cytosolic forms of the enzyme were detected in E. gracilis, O. sativa, and V. radiata, whereas only the cytosolic form was detected in streptomycin-bleached or chloroplastic mutants of E. gracilis and in S. platensis. Both the chloroplastic and cytosolic forms from different sources could be purified following the same three-step chromatographic protocol. L-myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthases purified from these different sources do not differ significantly with respect to biochemical and kinetic parameters except for the molecular mass of the chloroplastic and cytosolic native holoenzymes, which appear to be homotetrameric and homotrimeric associations of their constituent subunits, respectively. Monovalent and divalent cations, sugar alcohols, and sugar phosphates are inhibitory to the enzyme activity. N-ethylmaleimide inhibition of synthase activity could be protected by the combined presence of the substrate glucose-6-phosphate and cofactor NAD+. Antibody raised against the cytosolic enzyme from E. gracilis immunoprecipitates and cross-reacts with both chloroplastic and cytosolic forms from the other sources studied.
12225663	In metazoans, microRNAs, or miRNAs, constitute a growing family of small regulatory RNAs that are usually 19-25 nucleotides in length. They are processed from longer precursor RNAs that fold into stem-loop structures by the ribonuclease Dicer and are thought to regulate gene expression by base pairing with RNAs of protein-coding genes. In Arabidopsis thaliana, mutations in CARPEL FACTORY (CAF), a Dicer homolog, and those in a novel gene, HEN1, result in similar, multifaceted developmental defects, suggesting a similar function of the two genes, possibly in miRNA metabolism. To investigate the potential functions of CAF and HEN1 in miRNA metabolism, we aimed to isolate miRNAs from Arabidopsis and examine their accumulation during plant development in wild-type plants and in hen1-1 and caf-1 mutant plants. We have isolated 11 miRNAs, some of which have potential homologs in tobacco, rice, and maize. The putative precursors of these miRNAs have the capacity to form stable stem-loop structures. The accumulation of these miRNAs appears to be spatially or temporally controlled in plant development, and their abundance is greatly reduced in caf-1 and hen1-1 mutants. HEN1 homologs are found in bacterial, fungal, and metazoan genomes. miRNAs are present in both plant and animal kingdoms. An evolutionarily conserved mechanism involving a protein, known as Dicer in animals and CAF in Arabidopsis, operates in miRNA metabolism. HEN1 is a new player in miRNA accumulation in Arabidopsis, and HEN1 homologs in metazoans may have a similar function. The developmental defects associated with caf-1 and hen1-1 mutations and the patterns of miRNA accumulation suggest that miRNAs play fundamental roles in plant development.
12226172	The recessive floury-2 (flo-2) locus of rice (Oryza sativa L.), which is located on chromosome 4, causes a strong reduction in expression of the gene encoding an isoform of branching enzyme RBE1 in immature seeds 10 d after flowering. Mapping of the RBE1 gene demonstrated the localization on rice chromosome 6, suggesting that the wild-type Floury-2 (Flo-2) gene regulates RBE1 gene expression in trans. However, reduced expression of the genes encoding some other starch-synthesizing enzymes, including another isoform of branching enzyme RBE3 and granule-bound starch synthase, was also found in the flo-2 seeds. In spite of the low level of RBE1 gene expression in the immature seeds of the flo-2 mutants, the RBE1 gene was equally expressed in the leaves of the wild type and flo-2 mutants. Thus, these results imply that the Flo-2 gene may co-regulate expression of some of the genes participating in starch synthesis possibly in a developing seed-specific manner.
12226181	A late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein gene, HVA1, from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) was introduced into rice suspension cells using the Biolistic-mediated transformation method, and a large number of independent transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were generated. Expression of the barley HVA1 gene regulated by the rice actin 1 gene promoter led to high-level, constitutive accumulation of the HVA1 protein in both leaves and roots of transgenic rice plants. Second-generation transgenic rice plants showed significantly increased tolerance to water deficit and salinity. Transgenic rice plants maintained higher growth rates than nontransformed control plants under stress conditions. The increased tolerance was also reflected by delayed development of damage symptoms caused by stress and by improved recovery upon the removal of stress conditions. We also found that the extent of increased stress tolerance correlated with the level of the HVA1 protein accumulated in the transgenic rice plants. Using a transgenic approach, this study provides direct evidence supporting the hypothesis that LEA proteins play an important role in the protection of plants under water-or salt-stress conditions. Thus, LEA genes hold considerable potential for use as molecular tools for genetic crop improvement toward stress tolerance.
12226190	It has been suggested that jasmonic acid (JA) could be an integral part of a general signal transduction system regulating inducible defense genes in plants. It was reported that treatment with an elicitor (N-acetylchitoheptaose) induced production of phytoalexin in suspension-cultured rice (Oryza sativa L.) cells. In this study, the role of JA in the induction of phytoalexin production by N-acetylchitoheptaose was investigated. Exogenously applied ([plus or minus])-JA (10-4 M) clearly induced the production of momilactone A, a major phytoalexin, in suspension-cultured rice cells. On the other hand, in rice cells treated with N-acetylchitoheptaose, endogenous JA was rapidly and transiently accumulated prior to accumulation of momilactone A. Treatment with ibuprofen, an inhibitor of JA biosynthesis, reduced production of momilactone A in the cells treated with N-acetylchitoheptaose, but the addition of ([plus or minus])-JA increased production of momilactone A to levels higher than those in the elicited rice cells. These results strongly suggest that JA functions as a signal transducer in the induction of biosynthesis of momilactone A by N-acetylchitoheptaose in suspension-cultured rice cells.
12226198	Diauxic growth was observed in rice (Oryza sativa L.) suspension cells growing on acetate (10 mM) and glucose (10 mM). Cells used acetate during the first growth phase and the acetate level in the medium was rapidly decreased, whereas the level of glucose remained essentially unchanged. After acetate was depleted from the medium, cells started to use glucose, forming the second growth phase. It appears that uptake of [14C]glucose was repressed during the first growth phase and became active during the second growth phase. In contrast, uptake of [14C]acetate occurred actively throughout the diauxic growth. By further demonstrating the specific induction of isocitrate lyase (EC 4.1.3.1), a glyoxylate cycle enzyme, and hexokinase (EC 2.7.1.1), a glycolysis enzyme, during the first and second growth phases, respectively, it was clearly shown that rice cells use acetate first and do not use both carbon sources simultaneously. This kind of diauxic growth pattern has been observed in bacteria. To our knowledege, this study is the first report demonstrating the presence of diauxic growth in plant cells.
12226244	We have developed a novel and reproducible system for recovery of fertile transgenic maize (Zea mays L.) plants. The transformation was performed using microprojectile bombardment of cultured shoot apices of maize with a plasmid carrying two linked genes, the Streptomyces hygroscopicus phosphinothricin acetyltransferase gene (bar) and the potato proteinase inhibitor II gene, either alone or in combination with another plasmid containing the 5[prime] region of the rice actin 1 gene fused to the Escherichia coli [beta]-glucuronidase gene (gus). Bombarded shoot apices were subsequently multiplied and selected under 3 to 5 mg/L glufosinate ammonium. Co-transformation frequency was 100% (146/146) for linked genes and 80% (41/51) for unlinked genes. Co-expression frequency of the bar and gus genes was 57% (29/51). The co-integration, co-inheritance, and co-expression of bar, the potato proteinase inhibitor II gene, and gus in transgenic R0, R1, and R2 plants were confirmed. Localized expression of the actin 1-GUS protein in the R0 and R1 plants was extensively analyzed by histochemical and fluorometric assays.
12226323	The effects of phosphate deprivation on the growth and polyamine levels of suspension-cultured rice (Oryza sativa) cells were investigated. When rice suspension cells were deprived of phosphate, cell growth was markedly inhibited. Phosphate deprivation resulted in a higher putrescine level and lower spermidine and spermine levels in rice suspension cells. The growth of rice cells cultured in the absence of phosphate did not recover as a result of spermidine and spermine addition. D-Arginine and [alpha]-methylornithine, inhibitors of putrescine biosynthesis, caused a reduced level of putrescine in rice suspension cells cultured under phosphate deprivation. The growth of rice cells cultured in the absence of phosphate was completely recovered after the addition of D-arginine but not [alpha]-methylornithine. Our results indicate that putrescine accumulation is a factor causing growth inhibition of suspension-cultured rice cells under phosphate deprivation.
12226412	It has been proposed that cool temperature-induced chlorosis (CTIC) in Indica cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.) is caused by cell growth and plastid development being impeded at cool temperatures. Since it is well known that the overall rate of transcription of plastid-encoded genes changes dramatically during the early phases of plastid development, in this study we focused on the patterns of expression of these genes. Northern blot analysis revealed that the level of 16S rRNA is decreased in a CTIC-sensitive rice cultivar grown at a cool temperature. The expression of the gene for the [beta] subunit of plasmid RNA polymerase (rpoB) was shown to be somewhat disturbed, particularly in terms of its resuppression under cool conditions. The level of transcripts or proteins of plastid-encoded photosynthetic genes was also decreased in a CTIC-sensitive cultivar at a cool temperature. These results suggest that the temperature-dependent inhibition of the onset of gene expression encoding the transcription/translation apparatus may be primarily involved in the mechanism causing CTIC.
12226449	We have shown (S. Bajaj and M.V. Rajam [1995] Plant Cell Rep 14: 717-720) that a significant reduction in morphogenetic potential occurs in callus cultures of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv TN-1) (up to 1 year old), and that plant regeneration could be improved in such cultures with spermidine treatment. We now show a near loss in plant regeneration capacity, concomitant with massive polyamine accumulation (primarily the diamine putrescine), due to the increase in arginine decarboxylase activity and an altered putrescine-to-spermidine ratio in 20- and 36-month-old rice callus cultures. The blockage of polyamine accumulation due to the reduction in arginine decarboxylase activity by a putrescine synthesis inhibitor, [alpha]-difluoromethylarginine, completely restored plant regeneration capacity in these long-term cultures. Additionally, spermidine treatment of long-term cultures caused an increase in cellular spermidine content and a reduction in putrescine content and arginine decarboxylase activity, leading to an adjustment in putrescine-to-spermidine ratio and the restoration of plant regeneration ability.
12227509	Anion exchangers were prepared from different agricultural residues (AR) after reaction with epichlorohydrin and dimethylamine in the presence of pyridine and N,N-dimethylformamide (EDM method). Agricultural residues anion exchangers (AR-AE) produced by the EDM method were inexpensive and showed almost the same NO3- removal capacities as Amberlite IRA-900. AR-AE produced from AR with higher hemicelluloses, lignin, ash and extractive contents resulted in the lower yields. Sugarcane bagasse with the highest alpha-cellulose contents of 51.2% had the highest yield (225%) and lowest preparation cost. The highest maximum adsorption capacity (Qmax) for nitrate was obtained from rice hull (1.21 mmol g(-1)) and pine bark natural exchangers (1.06 mmol g(-1)). No correlation was found between Qmax and alpha-cellulose content in the original AR. AR-AE produced from different AR demonstrated comparable Qmax due to the removal of non-active compounds such as extractives, lignin and hemicelluloses from AR during the preparation process. Similar preparation from pure cellulose and pure alkaline lignin demonstrated that the EDM method could not produce anion exchangers from pure lignin due to its solubilization after the reaction with epichlorohydrin.
12228339	Transgenic seeds of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were used to investigate temporal, spatial, and hormonal regulation of a rice [alpha]-amylase gene, RAmy1A. Two overlapping segments of the RAmy1A promoter were fused to the coding region of the bacterial reporter gene, gusA. The resulting promoter-gusA fusions, pE4/GUS (-232 to +31) and pH4/GUS (-748 to +31), were used separately to transform rice protoplasts. [beta]-Glucuronidase (GUS) activity was detected in germinated transgenic seeds, although the two constructs showed no significant difference in timing or location of GUS expression. Both constructs first expressed GUS in the scutellar epithelium and then in the aleurone layer. Aleurone expression of GUS activity was strongly induced when embryoless half-seeds were treated with gibberellic acid. GUS expression in the aleurone layer was also suppressed by abscisic acid. These results indicate that the 5[prime] regulatory region from -232 to +31 is sufficient for temporal, spatial, and hormonal regulation of RAmy1A gene expression.
12228440	Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (Fru-2,6-bisP) was evaluated as a potential marker for the dormancy-breaking phase or the germination phase before pericarp splitting in red rice (Oryza sativa). During 4 h of imbibition at 30[deg]C, Fru-2,6-bisP of dehulled dormant and nondormant seeds increased to 0.26 and 0.38 pmol embryo-1, respectively. In nondormant seeds, embryo Fru-2,6-bisP content remained stable until the onset of pericarp splitting (12 h) and increased rapidly thereafter. In dormant seeds, Fru-2,6-bisP declined to 0.09 pmol embryo-1 at 24 h. Embryo Fru-2,6-bisP was correlated with O2 uptake of dormant and nondormant seeds. A 24-h exposure of dehulled, water-imbibed, dormant seeds to treatments yielding >90% germination (sodium nitrite [4 mM], propionic acid [22 mM], methyl propionate [32 mM], propanol [75 mM], and propionaldehyde [40 mM]) led to changes in embryo Fru-2,6-bisP that were unrelated to the final germination percentages. Furthermore, a 2-h pulse of propionaldehyde increased Fru-2,6-bisP 4-fold but did not break dormancy. Whereas nitrite and propionaldehyde increased Fru-2,6-bisP to 0.33 pmol embryo-1 after 2 h of contact, propionic acid and methyl propionate did not increase Fru-2,6-bisP above the untreated control. In all cases, further increases in Fru-2,6-bisP occurred after pericarp splitting. However, the plateau Fru-2,6-bisP attained during chemical contact was inversely correlated with elapsed time to 30% germination (r = -0.978). Therefore, although Fru-2,6-bisP is not a universal marker for dormancy release, its rapid increase during nitrite and propionaldehyde treatments suggests that events associated with dormancy breaking can occur within 2 h of chemical treatment.
12228500	Salicylic acid (SA) is a natural inducer of disease resistance in some dicotyledonous plants. Rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) had the highest levels of SA among all plants tested for SA content (between 0.01 and 37.19 [mu]g/g fresh weight). The second leaf of rice seedlings had slightly lower SA levels than any younger leaves. To investigate the role of SA in rice disease resistance, we examined the levels of SA in rice (cv M-201) after inoculation with bacterial and fungal pathogens. SA levels did not increase after inoculation with either the avirulent pathogen Pseudomonas syringae D20 or with the rice pathogens Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast, and Rhizoctonia solani, the causal agent of sheath blight. However, leaf SA levels in 28 rice varieties showed a correlation with generalized blast resistance, indicating that SA may play a role as a constitutive defense compound. Biosynthesis and metabolism of SA in rice was studied and compared to that of tobacco. Rice shoots converted [14C]cinnamic acid to SA and the lignin precursors p-coumaric and ferulic acids, whereas [14C]benzoic acid was readily converted to SA. The data suggest that in rice, as in tobacco, SA is synthesized from cinnamic acid via benzoic acid. In rice shoots, SA is largely present as a free acid; however, exogenously supplied SA was converted to [beta]-O-D-glucosylSA by an SA-inducible glucosyltransferase (SA-GTase). A 7-fold induction of SA-GTase activity was observed after 6 h of feeding 1 mM SA. Both rice roots and shoots showed similar patterns of SA-GTase induction by SA, with maximal induction after feeding with 1 mM SA.
12228501	Examination of an ammonium sulfate-enriched fraction (70-100% saturation) of heat-shock proteins (HSPs) by nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of a high molecular mass complex (280 kD) in soybean (Glycine max) seedlings. This complex cross-reacted with antibodies raised against soybean class I low-molecular-mass (LMW) HSPs. Dissociation of the complex by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed the complex to contain at least 15 polypeptides of the 15-to 18-kD class I LMW HSPs that could be detected by staining, radiolabeling, and western blotting. A similar LMW-HSP complex was observed in mung bean (Vigna radiata L.; 295 kD), in pea (Pisum sativum L.; 270 kD), and in rice (Oryza sativa L.; 310 kD). The complex was stable under high salt conditions (250 mM KCI), and the integrity was not affected by 1% Nonidet P-40 and 3 [mu]g/ML RNase treatment. The size of the isolated HSP complex in vitro was conserved to 55[deg]C; however, starting at 37.5[deg]C, it changed to higher molecular forms in the presence of soluble proteins. The isolated HSP complex was able to protect up to 75% of the soluble proteins from heat denaturation in vitro.
12228505	The metabolism of carbohydrates was investigated in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings grown under anoxia. Two phases can be recognized in the utilization of carbohydrates: during the first days of germination under anoxia, the metabolism of sugars is mainly degradative, whereas after the induction of [alpha]-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) has taken place, the increased presence of glucose and sucrose indicates that both starch degradation and sucrose synthesis operate. The analysis of the enzymes involved in carbohydrate metabolism indicates that anoxic rice seedlings possess a set of enzymes that allow the efficient metabolism of starch and sucrose to fructose-6-phosphate. We propose that cytosolic sucrose metabolism in anoxic rice seedlings takes place mainly through a sucrose synthase (EC 2.4.1.13) pathway with nucleoside diphosphate kinase (EC 2.7.4.6), allowing the cycling of urydilates needed for the operation of this pathway.
12228556	The relationship between leaf blade elongation rates (LER) and sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) activity was investigated at different times during ontogeny of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Jarrah) grown in flooded soil at either 350 or 700 [mu]L CO2 L-1. High CO2 concentrations increased LER of expanding blades and in vivo activity (Vlimiting) SPS activity of expanded blades during the early vegetative stage (21 d after planting [DAP]), when tiller number was small and growing blades were strong carbohydrate sinks. Despite a constant light environment, there was a distinct diurnal pattern in LER, Vlimiting SPS activity, and concentration of soluble sugars, with an increase in the early part of the light period and a decrease later in the light period. The strong correlation (r = 0.65) between LER and Vlimiting SPS activity over the diurnal cycle indicated that SPS activity played an important role in controlling blade growth. The higher Vlimiting SPS activity at elevated CO2 at 21 DAP was caused by an increase in the activation state of the enzyme rather than an increase in Vmax. Fructose and glucose accumulated to a greater extent than sucrose at high CO2 and may have been utilized for synthesis of cell-wall components, contributing to higher specific leaf weight. By the mid-tillering stage (42 DAP), CO2 enrichment enhanced Vlimiting and Vmax activities of source blades. Nevertheless, LER was depressed by high CO2, probably because tillers were stronger carbohydrate sinks than growing blades.
12228632	The seed storage protein [beta]-phaseolin of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) was expressed in the endosperm of transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants. The 5.1- or 1.8-kb promoter fragment of the rice seed storage protein glutelin Gt1 gene was fused transcriptionally to either the genomic or cDNA coding sequence of the [beta]-phaseolin gene. The highest quantity of phaseolin estimated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was 4.0% of the total endosperm protein in the transgenic rice seeds. The phaseolin trait was segregated as a single dominant trait with a positive gene dosage effect and was stably inherited through three successive generations. Both phaseolin genomic and cDNA coding sequences were used to synthesize four isoforms of mature phaseolin protein with apparent molecular masses of 51, 48, 47, and 45 kD. Enzyme deglycosylation experiments indicated that the 51-kD form contains high-mannose N-glycans; the 48- and 47-kD forms have further modified N-glycans; and the 45-kD form is a nonglycosylated protein. Immunolabeling studies using light and electron microscopy demonstrated that phaseolin accumulates primarily in the vacuolar type-II protein bodies located at the periphery of the endosperm near the aleurone layer. We discuss the implications of these results on nutritional improvement of rice grains.
12228653	An adequate carbohydrate supply contributes to the survival of seeds under conditions of limited oxygen availability. The amount of soluble, readily fermentable carbohydrates in dry cereal seeds is usually very limited, with starch representing the main storage compound. Starch breakdown during the germination of cereal seeds is the result of the action of hydrolytic enzymes and only through the concerted action of [alpha]-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1), [beta]-amylase (EC 3.2.1.2), debranching enzyme (EC 3.2.1.41), and [alpha]-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.20) can starch be hydrolyzed completely. We present here data concerning the complete set of starch-degrading enzymes in three cereals, rice (Oryza sativa L.), which is tolerant to anaerobiosis, and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), which are unable to germinate under anoxia. Among the cereal seeds tested under anoxia, only rice is able to degrade nonboiled, soluble starch, reflecting the ability to degrade the starch granules in vivo. This is explained by the presence of the complete set of enzymes needed to degrade starch completely either as the result of de novo synthesis ([alpha]-amylase, [beta]-amylase) or activation of preexisting, inactive forms of the enzyme (debranching enzyme, [alpha]-glucosidase). These enzymes are either absent or inactive in wheat and barley seeds kept under anaerobic conditions.
12228685	Electron microscopic observation of thin sections of rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm revealed two types of protein bodies (PBs): spherical and irregular-shaped ones. Immunocytochemical localization studies using antibodies raised against purified glutelins, prolamines, and globulins indicated that the prolamines were localized in the spherical PB, whereas the irregular-shaped PB contained glutelins and globulins. We counted and measured the surface area and the relative volume of 2303 PBs randomly selected from two different developmental stages and from different locations within the endosperm. The ratio of spherical to irregular-shaped PBs was 1:1.6. Double-label immunogold electron microscopic localization indicated that the globulins represented about 18% of the surface area of the irregular-shaped PBs. Based on our morphometric analysis, we estimate the relative contribution of glutelin as 53%, that of prolamine as 35%, and that of globulin as 12% of the total seed protein.
12230229	Anaemia in pregnancy is a major public health problem in China. Anaemia in pregnant women may be related to dietary intake of nutrients. To examine the relationship between iron status and dietary nutrients, a cross-sectional study in pregnant women was carried out. The intake of foods and food ingredients were surveyed by using 24-h dietary recall. Blood haemoglobin, haematocrit, serum iron, serum ferritin, transferrin and soluble transferrin receptor were measured in 1189 clinically normal pregnant women in the third trimester of pregnancy. The results showed that the average daily intake of rice and wheat was 504.2 g in the anaemia group and 468.6 g in the normal group. Carbohydrates accounted for 63.69% and 63.09% of energy in the anaemia and normal groups, respectively. Intake of fat was very low; 18.38% of energy in anaemia group and 19.23% of energy in normal group. Soybean intake was 109.4 g/day and 63.6 g/day in the anaemia and normal groups, respectively (P < 0.001). There were lower intakes of green vegetables (172.1 g/day) and fruits (154.9 g/day) in the anaemia group than in the normal group (246.2 g/day green vegetables (P < 0.001) and 196.4 g/day fruit (P < 0.001)). Intakes of retinol and ascorbic acid were much lower in the anaemia than in the normal group (P < 0.001). In the anaemia group, vitamin A intake was only 54.76% of the Chinese recommended daily allowance (RDA) and ascorbic acid intake was 53.35% of the Chinese RDA. Intake of total vitamin E was 14.55 mg/day in the anaemia group compared with 17.35 mg/day in the normal group (P < 0.016). Moreover, intake of iron in pregnant women with anaemia was slightly lower than that in the normal group. Comparison of iron status between the anaemia and normal groups found serum iron in women with anaemia at 0.89 microg/L, which was significantly lower than 1.09 microg/L in the normal group (P < 0.001). There were lower average values of ferritin (14.70) microg/L) and transferrin (3.34 g/L) in the anaemia group than in the normal group (20.40 microg/L ferritin (P < 0.001) and 3.44 g/L transferrin (P < 0.001)). Soluble transferrin receptor was significantly higher (32.90 nmol/L) in the anaemia than in the normal group (23.58 nmol/L; P < 0.001). The results of this study indicate that anaemia might be attributed to a low iron intake, a low intake of enhancers of iron absorption and a high intake of inhibitors of iron absorption from a traditional Chinese diet rich in grains.
12230231	Low birthweight is associated with maternal anaemia and, in some circumstances, with low iron and zinc status, but this relationship has not been investigated in the Philippines. In this study, we assessed the prevalence of anaemia and suboptimal iron and zinc status in pregnant women from three geographical regions (mountain, coast, city) of Zamboanga del Sur province at 24 weeks (n = 305). and again at 36 weeks (n = 127), gestation. At 24 weeks, 34% were anaemic (i.e., haemoglobin < 105 g/L) from all causes, of whom only 14% had concomitant low serum ferritin values (i.e., < 12 microg/L). The presence of infection was low, based on both elevated white blood cell count (> 11 x 10(9)/L; 19%) and serum C-reactive protein (> 15 mg/L; 3%). Of the women surveyed, 20% were iron depleted but not anaemic, and 15% were zinc deficient (i.e., serum zinc < 7.1 Micromol/L). The mean (+/- SD) birthweight of the infants (n = 250) was 3074 g +/- 408 g, of whom 5% were of low birthweight (< 2500 g). No differences existed for biochemical indices or birthweight among the three regions, or between women consuming maize or rice-based diets. Women with low haemoglobin (P = 0.05) and low serum zinc (P = 0.14) values at 24 weeks gestation had infants with lower birthweights than those with values > or = 105 g/L and > or = 7.1 micromol/L, respectively. However, in the multivariate model, the contribution of maternal haemoglobin to the variance in birthweight at 24 weeks gestation was non-significant, although modest for serum zinc. Anaemia and/or suboptimal zinc status during pregnancy may be related to low birthweight in the Philippines, and their aetiology deserves further study.
122310	With a view to form an experimental model of protein-malnutrition, mice are fed with two different commercial diets, the "nutrixan" and the "provende" which are included in different concentrations to a rice starch. Only the "provende" gives an workable model with three different growths which differ from the normal by a decrease which is proportional to the protein-deficiency. The incidence of the age and weight of the animals and the period of life of the beginning of the malnutrition are studied.
12231678	Anaerobic stress resulted in a change in the protein accumulation patterns in shoots of several Echinochloa (barnyard grass) species and Oryza sativa (L.) (rice) as resolved by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Of the six Echinochloa species investigated, E. phyllopogon (Stev.) Koss, E. muricata (Beauv.) Fern, E. oryzoides (Ard.) Fritsch Clayton, and E. crus-galli (L.) Beauv. are tolerant of anaerobiosis and germinate in the absence of oxygen, as does rice. In contrast, E. crus-pavonis (H.B.K.) Schult and E. colonum (L.) Link are intolerant and do not germinate without oxygen. Computer analysis of the protein patterns from the four tolerant species and rice indicated that the anaerobic response is of five classes: class 1 proteins, enhanced under anaerobiosis (9 to 13 polypeptides ranging from 16-68 kD); class 2 proteins, unique to anaerobiosis (1 to 5 polypeptides ranging from 17-69 kD); class 3 proteins, remained constant under aerobiosis and anaerobiosis; class 4 proteins, prominent only in air and repressed under anoxia (3 to 7 polypeptides ranging from 19-45 kD); and class 5 proteins, unique to aerobiosis (1 to 4 polypeptides ranging from 18-63 kD). In the intolerant species, E. colonum and E. crus-pavonis, no polypeptides were enhanced or repressed under anoxia (class 1 and class 4, respectively), whereas in the tolerant Echinochloa species and rice, a total of at least 9 to 13 anaerobic stress proteins and 4 to 7 "aerobic" proteins were noted. Immunoblotting identified two of the major anaerobic stress proteins as fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase and pyruvate decarboxylase. Based on the differential response of the intolerant species to anaerobiosis, we suggest that another set of genes, whose products may not necessarily be among the major anaerobic stress polypeptides, might confer tolerance in Echinochloa under prolonged anaerobic stress.
12231780	Nitrogen accumulation in the apical spikelets on the primary branches of the main stem of rice plants have been studied during the ripening process (0-35 d after flowering). The level of NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (GOGAT) protein and activity increased 4- and 6-fold, respectively, in the first 15 d after flowering. Maximum levels of NADH-GOGAT were found at that time when the spikelets had just begun to increase in dry weight and to accumulate storage proteins. Subsequently, both the level of NADH-GOGAT protein and its activity in spikelets declined rapidly. Although changes in ferredoxin (Fd)-dependent GOGAT paralleled changes in NADH-GOGAT, the relative abundance of NADH-GOGAT protein in the spikelets was about 3 times higher than that of Fd-GOGAT from 5 to 15 d after flowering. When the chaff (lemma and palea) was separated from the spikelets 10 d after the flowering, 16% of the NADH-GOGAT protein was found in the chaff and 84% in the young grain tissues (endosperm, testae, aleurone tissues, and embryo). On the other hand, Fd-GOGAT protein was distributed 52% in the chaff and 48% in the young grain tissues in spikelets of the same age. Activity of NADP-isocitrate dehydrogenase, which may generate the 2-oxoglutarate required for the GOGAT reactions, was much higher than that of total GOGAT activities on a spikelet basis during the ripening process. These results suggest that in rice plants NADH-GOGAT is responsible for the synthesis of glutamate from the glutamine that is transported from senescing tissues to the spikelets.
12231806	A membrane-bound inositol phospholipid-specific phospholipase C was solubilized from rice (Oryza sativa L.) microsomal membranes and purified to apparent homogeneity using a series of chromatographic separations. The apparent molecular mass of the enzyme was estimated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to be 42,000 D, and the isoelectric point was 5.1. The optimum pH for the enzyme activity was approximately 6.5, and the enzyme was activated by both Ca2+ and Sr2+. The chemical and catalytic properties of the purified membrane-bound phospholipase C differed from those of the soluble enzyme reported previously (K. Yotsushima, K. Nakamura, T. Mitsui, I. Igaue [1992] Biosci Biotech Biochem 56: 1247-1251). In addition, we found a regulatory factor for the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) hydrolyzing activity of phospholipase C from rice cells. The regulatory factor was dissociated from the catalytic subunit of phospholipase C during the purification. The regulatory factor was necessary to induce PIP2-hydrolyzing activity of both membrane-bound and -soluble phospholipase C; these purified enzymes had no activity alone. Because the plasma membranes isolated from rice cells could also act as a regulatory factor, the regulatory factor seems to be localized in the plasma membranes. Regulation of inositol phospholipid turnover in rice cells is discussed.
12231829	[17-13C,3H]Gibberellin A4 (GA4) was injected into the shoots of tall (W23/L317), dwarf-1 (d1), and dwarf-5 (d5) Zea mays L. (maize); tall (cv Nipponbare), dwarf-x (dx), and dwarf-y (dy) Oryza sativa L. (rice); and tall (ecotype Landsberg erecta), ga4, and ga5 Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. [13C]GA4 and its metabolites were identified from the shoots by full-scan gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and Kovats retention indices. GA4 was metabolized to GA1 in all nine genotypes. GA4 was also metabolized in some of the genotypes to 3-epi-GA1, GA2, 2[beta]-OH-GA2, 3-epi-GA2, endo-GA4, 16[alpha], 17-H2-16, 17-(OH)2-GA4, GA34, endo-GA34, GA58, 15-epi-GA63, GA71, and 16-epi-GA82. No evidence was found for the metabolism of GA4 to GA7 or of GA4 to GA3. The bioactivities of GA4 and GA1 were determined using the six dwarf mutants for assay. GA4 and GA1 had similar activities for the maize and rice mutants. For the Arabidopsis mutants, GA4 was more active than GA1 at low dosages; GA4 was less active than GA1 at higher dosages.
12232017	The time course of 13NH4+ uptake and the distribution of 13NH4+ among plant parts and subcellular compartments was determined for 3-week-old rice (Oryza sativa L. cv M202) plants grown hydroponically in modified Johnson's nutrient solution containing 2,100, or 1000 [mu]M NH4+ (referred to hereafter as G2, G100, or G1000 plants, respectively). At steady state, the influx of 13NH4+ was determined to be 1.31, 5.78, and 10.11 [mu]mol g-1 fresh weight h-1, respectively, for G2, G100, and G1000 plants; efflux was 11, 20, and 29%, respectively, of influx. The NH4+ flux to the vacuole was calculated to be between 1 and 1.4 [mu]mol g-1 fresh weight h-1. By means of 13NH4+ efflux analysis, three kinetically distinct phases (superficial, cell wall, and cytoplasm) were identified, with t1/2 for 13NH4+ exchange of approximately 3 s and 1 and 8 min, respectively. Cytoplasmic [NH4+] was estimated to be 3.72, 20.55, and 38.08 mM for G2, G100, and G1000 plants, respectively. These concentrations were higher than vacuolar [NH4+], yet 72 to 92% of total root NH4+ was located in the vacuole. Distributions of newly absorbed 13NH4+ between plant parts and among the compartments were also examined. During a 30-min period G100 plants metabolized 19% of the influxed 13NH4+. The remainder (81%) was partitioned among the vacuole (20%), cytoplasm (41%), and efflux (20%). Of the metabolized 13N, roughly one-half was translocated to the shoots.
12232018	Short-term influxes of 13NH4+ were measured in intact roots of 3-week-old rice (Oryza sativa L. cv M202) seedlings that were hydroponically grown at 2, 100, or 1000 [mu]M NH4+. Below 1 mM external concentration ([NH4+]0), influx was saturable and due to a high-affinity transport system (HATS). For the HATS, Vmax values were negatively correlated and Km values were positively correlated with NH4+ provision during growth and root [NH4+]. Between 1 and 40 mM [NH4+]0, 13NH4+ influx showed a linear response due to a low-affinity transport system (LATS). The 13NH4+ influxes by the HATS, and to a lesser extent the LATS, are energy-dependent processes. Selected metabolic inhibitors reduced influx of the HATS by 50 to 80%, but of the LATS by only 31 to 51%. Estimated values for Q10 (the ratio of rates at temperatures differing by 10[deg]C) for HATS were greater than 2.4 at root temperatures from 5 to 10[deg]C and were constant at approximately 1.5 between 5 and 30[deg]C for the LATS. Influx of 13NH4+ by the HATS was insensitive to external pH in the range from 4.5 to 9.0, but influx by the LATS declined significantly beyond pH 6.0. The data presented are discussed in the context of the kinetics, energy dependence, and the regulation of ammonium influx.
12232068	Fluorescence microscopy of rice (Oryza sativa L.) callus sections showed that all of the walls fluoresced blue in water (pH 5.8) and green in ammonia (pH 10.0), both characteristics of feruloyl esters. Such fluorescence in the walls of cells cultured in Gamborg's B5 medium was much stronger than that in amino acid (AA) medium. Laser scanning microscopy showed that the level of fluorescence was higher in the intercellular layer, especially at corner junctions between cells, suggesting that ferulic acid ester derivatives are located in the middle lamella as well as in the wall. Extracellular polysaccharides appearing during cultivation in AA medium were more highly feruloylated than those in B5 medium during cultivation. Both the levels of ferulic and diferulic acid and the relative proportion of diferulic acid in the walls of cells increased on transfer of the cells cultured in AA medium to B5 medium. The walls of cells cultured in B5 medium maintained constant levels and proportions of the phenolic acids. Removal of phenolic acids from wall preparations by carboxylesterase facilitated the solubilization of noncellulosic polysaccharides. Treatment of the cell aggregates grown in AA medium with an enzyme that hydrolyzes feruloyl esters decreased the size of the aggregates to between 20 and 500 [mu]m, compared with an original size between 200 and 1000 [mu]m. These findings suggest that feruloyl and diferuloyl esters between polysaccharides are involved in the aggregation of cultured rice cells.
12232094	The ability of seeds to withstand desiccation develops during embryogenesis and differs considerably among species. Paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.) grains readily survive dehydration to as low as 2% water content, whereas North American wild rice (Zizania palustris var interior [Fasset] Dore) grains are not tolerant of water contents below 6% and are sensitive to drying and imbibition conditions. During embryogenesis, dehydrin proteins, abscisic acid (ABA), and saccharides are synthesized, and all have been implicated in the development of desiccation tolerance. We examined the accumulation patterns of dehydrin protein, ABA, and soluble saccharides (sucrose and oligosaccharides) of rice embryos and wild rice axes in relation to the development of desiccation tolerance during embryogenesis. Dehydrin protein was detected immunologically with an antibody raised against a conserved dehydrin amino acid sequence. Both rice and wild rice embryos accumulated a 21-kD dehydrin protein during development, and an immunologically related 38-kD protein accumulated similarly in rice. Dehydrin protein synthesis was detected before desiccation tolerance had developed in both rice embryos and wild rice axes. However, the major accumulation of dehydrin occurred after most seeds of both species had become desiccation tolerant. ABA accumulated in wild rice axes to about twice the amount present in rice embryos. There were no obvious relationships between ABA and the temporal expression patterns of dehydrin protein in either rice or wild rice. Wild rice axes accumulated about twice as much sucrose as rice embryos. Oligosaccharides were present at only about one-tenth of the maximum sucrose concentrations in both rice and wild rice. We conclude that the desiccation sensitivity displayed by wild rice grains is not due to an inability to synthesize dehydrin proteins, ABA, or soluble carbohydrates.
12232121	Submergence induces rapid elongation of deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L.) internodes. This adaptive feature allows deepwater rice to grow out of the water and to survive flooding. The growth response of submerged deepwater rice plants is, ultimately, elicited by gibberellin (GA). Little attention has been given to the synthesis and role of the cuticle during plant growth. We investigated two questions regarding the cuticle in rapidly elongating deepwater rice internodes: (a) how does cuticle formation keep pace with internodal growth, which can reach rates of up to 5 mm/h; and (b) does the cuticle contribute to tissue stress in rice internodes? Treatment with GA for 48 h caused an up to 60-fold increase in the incorporation of [14C]palmitic acid and an up to 6-fold increase in the incorporation of [14C]oleic acid into the cuticle of growing internodes. GA also caused a qualitative change in the incorporation pattern of palmitic acid into several cutin monomers, the most prominent of which was tentatively identified by thin-layer chromatography as a derivative of dihydroxyhexadecanoic acid. Rapidly growing plant organs exhibit longitudinal tissue stress: the epidermal cell layer is under tension with a tendency to contract, whereas the internal cells are under compression with a tendency to expand. As a result of tissue stress, longitudinally sliced sections of elongating internodes bend outward upon isolation from the plant. Treating rapidly growing rice internodes with cutinase reduced such outward bending, indicating that the cuticle contributes to tissue stress. Based on these results, we propose that rapidly elongating structures such as deepwater rice internodes constitute an excellent system to study cuticle formation at the biochemical and cellular level.
12232135	The transmembrane electrical potential differences ([delta][psi]) were measured in epidermal and cortical cells of intact roots of 3-week-old rice (Oryza sativa L. cv M202) seedlings grown in 2 or 100 [mu]M NH4+ (G2 or G100 plants, respectively). In modified Johnson's nutrient solution containing no nitrogen, [delta][psi] was in the range of -120 to -140 mV. Introducing NH4+ to the bathing medium caused a rapid depolarization. At the steady state, average [delta][psi] of G2 and G100 plants were -116 and -89 mV, respectively. This depolarization exhibited a biphasic response to external NH4+ concentration similar to that reported for 13NH4+ influx isotherms (M.Y. Wang, M.Y. Siddiqi, T.J. Ruth, A.D.M. Glass [1993] Plant Physiol 103: 1259-1267). Plots of membrane depolarization versus 13NH4+ influx were also biphasic, indicating distinct coupling processes for the two transport systems, with a breakpoint between two concentration ranges around 1 mM NH4+. The extent of depolarization was also influenced by nitrogen status, which was larger for G2 plants than for G100 plants. Depolarization of [delta][psi] due to NH4+ uptake was eliminated by a protonophore (carboxylcyanide-m-chlorophenylhydrazone), inhibitors of ATP synthesis (sodium cyanide plus salicylhydroxamic acid), or an ATPase inhibitor (diethylstilbestrol). The results of these observations are discussed in the context of the mechanisms of NH4+ uptake by high- and low-affinity transport systems operating across the plasma membranes of root cells.
12232197	The photosynthetic gas-exchange rates and various biochemical components of photosynthesis, including ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) content, cytochrome (Cyt) f content, and the activities of two sucrose synthesis enzymes, were examined in young, fully expanded leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.) grown hydroponically in different nitrogen concentrations. The light-saturated rate of photosynthesis at an intercellular CO2 pressure of 20 Pa (CO2-limited photosynthesis) was linearly dependent on leaf nitrogen content, but curvilinearly correlated with Rubisco content. This difference was due to a greater than proportional increase in Rubisco content relative to leaf nitrogen content and the presence of a CO2 transfer resistance between the intercellular air spaces and the carboxylation sites. CO2-limited photosynthesis was proportional to Cyt f content, one of the key components of electron transport, but was not proportional to the activities of cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and sucrose phosphate synthase, the two regulatory enzymes of sucrose synthesis. Light-saturated photosynthesis above an intercellular CO2 pressure of 60 Pa (CO2-saturated photosynthesis) was curvilinearly dependent on leaf nitrogen content. This CO2-saturated photosynthesis was proportional to Cyt f content in the low- and normal-nitrogen leaves, and correlated better with the activities of cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and sucrose phosphate synthase in the high-nitrogen leaves. The increase in the activities of these two enzymes with increasing leaf nitrogen was not as great as the increase in Cyt f content. Thus, as leaf nitrogen increased, the limitation caused by the activities of sucrose synthesis enzymes came into play, which resulted in the curvilinear relationship. However, this limitation by sucrose synthesis enzymes did not affect photosynthesis under normal ambient air.
12232265	Seedlings of 17 rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars were classified on the basis of anthocyanin pigmentation into three groups: an acyanic group with 9 cultivars, a moderately cyanic group with 5 cultivars, and a cyanic group with 3 cultivars. Seedlings of the cyanic group were deep purple in color, possessing copious amounts of anthocyanin in shoots. Sunlight (SL)-mediated anthocyanin and phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) induction in a cyanic cultivar, purple puttu, was compared with an acyanic cultivar, black puttu. A brief exposure of dark-grown purple puttu seedlings to SL induced anthocyanin formation during a subsequent dark period with a peak at 24 h. The magnitude of SL-mediated anthocyanin induction is age dependent, the 4-d-old seedlings being the most responsive to SL. The anthocyanin induction in purple puttu seedlings is mediated exclusively by the ultraviolet-B (UV-B) component of SL. The SL-triggered anthocyanin induction was reduced by about 30% by a terminal far-red light pulse and was restored by a red light pulse, indicating the role of phytochrome in modulation of anthocyanin level. The SL-mediated induction of PAL showed two peaks, one at 4 h and the other at 12 h. Whereas the first PAL peak (4 h) was induced by phytochrome and was seen in both cultivars, the second PAL peak (12 h) was inducible by UV-B only in the cyanic purple puttu cultivar.
12232279	Effects of growth temperature on the photosynthetic gas-exchange rates and their underlying biochemical properties were examined in young, fully expanded leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.). The plants were grown hydroponically under day/night temperature regimes of 18/15[deg]C, 23/18[deg]C, and 30/23[deg]C and all photosynthetic measurements were made at a leaf temperature of 25[deg]C and an irradiance of 1800 [mu]mol quanta m-2 s-1. Growth temperature affected the photosynthetic CO2 response curve. The relative ratio of the initial slope to the CO2-saturated photosynthesis increased with rising growth temperature. This was caused mainly by an increase in CO2-limited photosynthesis for a given leaf nitrogen content with rising growth temperature. However, there was no difference in ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) content at any given leaf nitrogen content among temperature treatments. In addition, the activation state and catalytic turnover rate of Rubisco were not affected by growth temperature. The increase in CO2-limited photosynthesis with rising growth temperature was the result of an increase in the CO2 transfer conductance between the intercellular airspaces and the carboxylation sites. The amounts of total chlorophyll and light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein II increased for the same leaf nitrogen content with rising growth temperature, but the amounts of cytochrome f and coupling factor 1 and the activities of cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and sucrose-phosphate synthase were the same between plants grown at 23/18[deg]C and those grown at 30/23[deg]C. Similarly, CO2-saturated photosynthesis was not different for the same leaf nitrogen content between these treatments. For the 18/15[deg]C-grown plants, a slight decrease in the amounts of cytochrome f and coupling factor 1 and an increase in the activities of cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and sucrose-phosphate synthase were found, but these were not reflected in CO2-saturated photosynthesis.
12232309	Inosine diphosphatase bound to Golgi membranes was studied in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Nipponkai) cells. The enzyme was solubilized with Triton X-100 from isolated rice Golgi membranes and was highly purified employing a series of chromatography steps in the presence of 20% glycerol and 0.1% Triton X-100. The apparent molecular mass of the enzyme was estimated by gel filtration column chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to be 200 and 55 kD, respectively. The isoelectric point of the enzyme was determined to be 7.5. The optimal pH for the enzyme activity was around 7 and the enzyme required Mg2+ for hydrolyzing activity. IDP, UDP, and GDP were effective substrate for the purified rice Golgi membrane-bound inosine diphosphatase, whereas activity with ADP, CDP, and thymidine 5[prime]-diphosphate was 10 to 20% of IDP. The Km values for IDP, UDP, and GDP were 0.48, 0.50, and 0.67 mM, respectively, and Vmax values were 1.85, 1.54, and 1.67 [mu]mol min-1 mg-1, respectively. These results indicate that the rice Golgi enzyme is a nucleoside diphosphatase that is specific for IDP, UDP, and GDP. Furthermore, this rice Golgi nucleoside diphosphatase stimulated the activity of glucan synthase I also localized in rice Golgi membranes. The results strongly support the view that this nucleoside diphosphatase is involved in regulation of [beta]-glucan synthesis in the plant Golgi complex.
12232342	In rice (Oryza sativa L.), cytosolic triosephosphate isomerase (TPI) is encoded by a single gene. TPI catalyzes a vital step in glycolysis, and RNA blots showed that the tpi gene is expressed in all vegetative tissues (root, culm, and leaves) and in rice suspension cells. No effect of light on expression was detected, but submergence of rice seedlings resulted in elevated levels of TPI mRNA in roots and culms. The 2767-bp 5[prime] upstream sequence of the tpi gene was fused translationally with the [beta]-glucuronidase (gusA) gene, and the resulting construct, TPI-GUS, was found to express constitutive, high levels of GUS activity in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants. However, the same construct yielded no GUS activity in stably transformed rice plants, and RNA blots showed that no GUS mRNA could be detected even though stable integration of functional copies of the construct was confirmed by Southern blot and genomic polymerase chain reaction analyses. Transient assays using particle bombardment yielded high levels of GUS expression from the TPI-GUS construct in tobacco leaves, but essentially no expression in rice, barley, or maize leaves. When the first intron of the tpi gene was included in the construct (TPI-int1-GUS), transient GUS activity was routinely obtained in rice leaves, revealing that the first intron of the rice tpi gene is crucial for its expression in rice. TPI-int1-GUS also directed transient GUS expression in maize and barley leaves, but little or no activity was obtained from this construct in tobacco, tomato, or soybean leaves. These results with the rice tpi promoter are in accordance with mounting evidence that differences in gene expression exist between monocots and dicots.
12232382	Expression of genes encoding enzymes involved in specialized metabolic pathways is assumed to be regulated coordinately to maintain homeostasis in plant cells. We analyzed transcript levels of rice (Oryza sativa L.) genes associated with glycolysis and alcohol fermentation under submergence stress. When each transcript was quantified at several times, two types (I and II) of mRNA accumulation were observed in response to submergence stress. Transcripts of type I genes reached a maximum after 24 h of submergence and were reduced by transfer to aerobic conditions or by partial exposure of shoot tips to air. In a submergence-tolerant rice cultivar, transcript amounts of several type I genes, such as glucose phosphate isomerase, phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase, and enolase, increased significantly compared to an intolerant cultivar after 24 h of submergence. This suggests that the mRNA accumulation of type I genes increases in response to anaerobic stress. mRNA accumulation of type II genes, such as aldolase and pyruvate kinase, reached a maximum after 10 h of submergence. Following transfer to aerobic conditions, their transcript levels were not so rapidly decreased as were type I genes. These results suggest that the mRNA levels of genes engaged in glycolysis and alcohol fermentation may be regulated differentially under submergence stress.
12232414	The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the metabolism of gibberellin A20 (GA20) to gibberellin A1 (GA1) by tall and mutant shoots of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. The data show that the tall and dx mutant of rice and the tall and ga5 mutant of Arabidopsis metabolize GA20 to GA1. The data also show that the dy mutant of rice and the ga4 mutant of Arabidopsis block the metabolism of GA20 to GA1. [17-13C,3H]GA20 was fed to tall and the dwarf mutants, dx and dy, of rice and tall and the dwarf mutants, ga5 and ga4, of Arabidopsis. The metabolites were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography and full-scan gas chromatography-mass spectrometry together with Kovats retention index data. For rice, the metabolite [13C]GA, was identified from tall and dx seedlings; [13C]GA1 was not identified from the dy seedlings. [13C]GA29 was identified from tall, dx, and dy seedlings. For Arabidopsis, the metabolite [13C]GA1 was identified from tall, ga5, and ga4 plants. The amount of [13C]GA1 from ga4 plants was less than 15% of that obtained from tall and ga5 plants. [13C]GA29 was identified from tall, ga5, and ga4 plants. [13C]GA5 and [13C]GA3 were not identified from any of the six types of plant material.
12232418	Using anther-derived rice (Oryza sativa L.) cell-suspension cultures, we have identified an 18-kD protein that is posttranslationally modified by spermidine and is influenced by endogenous polyamine levels. The posttranslationally modified residue has been identified as the unusual amino acid hypusine [N[epsilon]-(4-amino-2-hydroxybutyl)lysine] by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography-mass-spectrometry analyses. Differential labeling of the protein with labeled amines provided evidence that the butylamine moiety of spermidine is the immediate precursor of the hypusine residue in the protein. The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF-5A) is the only known mammalian protein that undergoes a similar posttranslational modification with hypusine. The purified 18-kD protein co-electrophoreses with human translational initiation factor eIF-5A in both isoelectric focusing and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels. The purified protein from rice stimulated methionyl-puromycin synthesis in vitro, indicating its functional similarity to mammalian eIF-5A. The results presented provide evidence that the posttranslationally modified 18-kD protein from rice containing hypusine is eIF-5A and suggest the conservation of hypusine-containing translation initiation factor eIF-5A in eukaryotes.
12232434	During the anaerobic germination of rice (Oryza sativa L.), nitrate is translocated from the caryopsis and assimilated into the coleoptile (R. Reggiani, M. Mattana, N. Aurisano, A. Bertani [1993] Plant Cell Physiol 34: 379-383). Using antibodies against nitrate and nitrite reductases, proteins with the expected molecular mass were recognized by western blot analysis in extracts from 8-d-old rice coleoptiles. Both enzymes are de novo synthesized in 6- to 8-d-old seedlings, as shown by immunoprecipitation of radiolabeled proteins from young plants grown in the presence of [35S]methio-nine. The anaerobic synthesis of both enzymes was enhanced by the addition of 5 mM KNO3. The effect of exogenous nitrate on the expression of the corresponding genes in anaerobic rice coleoptiles was revealed by the analysis of their transcripts. The importance of the expression of these enzymes during the anaerobic development of rice seedlings is discussed.
12232436	Infrared and Raman spectra of sequentially extracted primary cell walls and their pectic polymers were obtained from five angiosperm plants. Fourier-transform Raman spectrometry was shown to be a powerful tool for the investigation of primary cell-wall architecture at a molecular level, providing complementary information to that obtained by Fourier-transform infrared microspectroscopy. The use of an extraction procedure using imidazole instead of cyclohexane trans-1,2-N,N,N[prime],N[prime]-diaminotetraacetate allows the extension of the infrared spectral window for data interpretation from 1300 to 800 cm-1, to 2000 to 800 cm-1, and allows us to obtain Raman spectra from extracted cell-wall material. Wall constituents such as pectins, proteins, aromatic phenolics, cellulose, and hemicellulose have characteristic spectral features that can be used to identify and/or fingerprint these polymers without, in most cases, the need for any physical separation. The Gramineae (rice [Oryza sativa], polypogon [Polypogon fugax steud], and sweet corn [Zea mays]) are spectroscopically very different from the nongraminaceous monocotyledon (onion [Allium cepa]) and the dicotyledon (carrot [Daucus carota]); this reflects differences in chemical composition and cross-linking of the walls. The possibility of a taxonomic classification of plant cell walls based on infrared and Raman spectroscopies and the use of spectral fingerprinting for authentication and detection of adulteration of products rich in cell-wall materials are discussed.
12234149	Cell number and cell division activity in rice (Oryza sativa) endosperms are possibly regulated by cytokinin levels in the endosperm and its source in the roots. This study tried to find the possible correlations among them. Six rice genotypes were grown in nutrient solution. Two patterns of endosperm cell division, synchronous and asynchronous, were observed among the genotypes based on the cell division rate of superior and inferior spikelets. Contents of zeatin (Z) + zeatin riboside (ZR) were much higher than those of N6-isopentenyladenine (iP) and N6-isopentenyladenosine (iPR) in both endosperms and roots. Changes in Z + ZR levels in endosperms were significantly correlated with those in roots, and both were very significantly correlated with the cell division rate. Changes in iP + iPR contents in the roots were not significantly correlated with those in the endosperms and the cell division rate. When roots were treated with kinetin, endosperm cell number and grain weight were increased. Such enhancement was more significantly achieved by the root kinetin treatment than by spraying kinetin on leaves and panicles. The results suggest that the cell number and cell division activity in rice endosperms are regulated by cytokinin levels in the endosperm and that root-derived Z + ZR play a pivotal role.
12234350	The effects of pH, temperature, phytate, glucose, phosphate and surfactants on the phytase production of Mitsuokella jalaludinii, a new bacterial species from the rumen of cattle, were evaluated. By using batch fermentation, it was found that phytase production of M. jalaludinii was induced by sodium phytate. Inclusion of glucose into rice bran-soybean milk (RB-SM) medium inhibited the phytase production. Supplementation of 0.05-0.5% of phosphate to RB-SM medium neither inhibited nor stimulated the phytase production. The optimum pH and temperature for the phytase production of M. jalaludinii were 7.02 and 39 degrees C, respectively. Surfactants such as Tween-80 (0.5% and 1.0%) and Triton X-100 (1.0%) did not affect the phytase production. The study has provided important data on the culture conditions affecting phytase production of M. jalaludinii, which will facilitate future research on the optimization of fermentation processes for production of high phytase activity by M. jalaludinii.
12234680	Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) are required for ribose 2'-O-methylation of eukaryotic ribosomal RNA. Through computer search in international rice genome database, a novel U14 snoRNA gene cluster, consisting of two U14 snoRNA gene candidates, was found on rice chromosome II. They both have box C/D sequences and a 14 nucleotides (nt)-long complementarity to rice 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA). Functional analysis of this gene cluster indicated that both were transcribed in vivo and might guide the methylations of C418 in rice 18S rRNA. By using primer extension, 5' and 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends, the 5' and 3' ends of two snoRNAs were determined. The 52 nt long intergenic spacer of the gene cluster is rich in uridine. The absence of a conserved promoter element in this spacer, the proximity of the genes and the detection of transcripts containing linked U14 snoRNAs by reverse transcript polymerase chain reaction suggest that the rice U14 snoRNAs encoded in the cluster are transcribed as a polycistron under an upstream promoter, and individual U14 snoRNAs are released after processing of the precursor RNAs.
12236509	Supercritical carbon dioxide extraction [152 bar (15,200 kPa), 80 degrees C, 4 ml min(-1), 60 min], performed on lipids (2 g) previously extracted from irradiated plant foods, allowed a selective extraction of 2-dodecylcyclobutanone and its further detection by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in 50 Gy irradiated cowpeas and 100 Gy irradiated rice. However, because of the higher quantities of lipid impurities in these test samples compared to those present in meat samples, a longer and slightly more polar capillary column than the one proposed in the official standard EN 1785 method should be used to obtain a satisfactory resolution.
12236596	A beta-glucoronidase (GUS)-marked strain of Herbaspirillum seropedicae Z67 was inoculated onto rice seedling cvs. IR42 and IR72. Internal populations peaked at over 10(6) log CFU per gram of fresh weight by 5 to 7 days after inoculation (DAI) but declined to 10(3) to 10(4) log CFU per gram of fresh weight by 28 DAI. GUS staining was most intense on coleoptiles, lateral roots, and at the junctions of some of the main and lateral roots. Bacteria entered the roots via cracks at the points of lateral root emergence, with cv. IR72 appearing to be more aggressively infected than cv. IR42. H. seropedicae subsequently colonized the root intercellular spaces, aerenchyma, and cortical cells, with a few penetrating the stele to enter the vascular tissue. Xylem vessels in leaves and stems were extensively colonized at 2 DAI but, in later harvests (7 and 13 DAI), a host defense reaction was often observed. Dense colonies of H. seropedicae with some bacteria expressing nitrogenase Fe-protein were seen within leaf and stem epidermal cells, intercellular spaces, and substomatal cavities up until 28 DAI. Epiphytic bacteria were also seen. Both varieties showed nitrogenase activity but only with added C, and the dry weights of the inoculated plants were significantly increased. Only cv. IR42 showed a significant (approximately 30%) increase in N content above that of the uninoculated controls, and it also incorporated a significant amount of 15N2.
12237405	We used rice dwarf1 (d1) mutants lacking a single-copy Galpha gene and addressed Galpha's role in disease resistance. d1 mutants exhibited a highly reduced hypersensitive response to infection by an avirulent race of rice blast. Activation of PR gene expression in the leaves of the mutants infected with rice blast was delayed for 24 h relative to the wild type. H(2)O(2) production and PR gene expression induced by sphingolipid elicitors (SE) were strongly suppressed in d1 cell cultures. Expression of the constitutively active OsRac1, a small GTPase Rac of rice, in d1 mutants restored SE-dependent defense signaling and resistance to rice blast. Galpha mRNA was induced by an avirulent race of rice blast and SE application on the leaf. These results indicated the role of Galpha in R gene-mediated disease resistance of rice. We have proposed a model for the defense signaling of rice in which the heterotrimeric G protein functions upstream of the small GTPase OsRac1 in the early steps of signaling.
12238154	Production of volatile substances from edible oils and their constituents by Penicillium corylophilum was studied to clarify the mechanism of flavor production from a non-stick oil by the organism in a rice cake system. First, edible oils from plant and animal origins were tested for flavor production. Among the oils tested, coconut oil was the only one from which the flavor was produced. Second, triacylglycerols consisting of fatty acids with various lengths of carbon chain (C6 to C13) were studied for flavor production. Among the triacylglycerols tested, flavors were produced from those consisting of fatty acids with carbon chains of C6 to C11. The flavors consisted of methylketones and secondary alcohols, whose carbon chains were one carbon shorter than the precursor fatty acid molecules of the triacylglycerols. Flavors similar to that from the non-stick oil were produced from tricaprylin (C8), trinonanoin (C9), and tridecanoin (C10) among the triacylglycerols tested. Formation of mould spores was more strongly suppressed by triacylglycerols with shorter chain fatty acids. Third, fatty acids with various lengths of carbon chain (C7 to C15) were studied for flavor production. Among the fatty acids tested, flavors were produced from decanoic (C10) and undecanoic (C11) acids only. The flavors also consisted of methylketones and secondary alcohols one carbon shorter than the precursor fatty acids. Fatty acids with short carbon chains (C7 to C9) completely inhibited the mould growth. Our study showed that the range of carbon chain length of fatty acids capable of the flavor production (C10 to C11) was narrower than that of triacylglycerols (C6 to C11). It was also found that the non-stick oil and coconut oil contain tricaprylin and tridecanoin as triacylglycerols and decanoic acid as fatty acid.
12239409	The rice blast fungus expresses a pathogenicity gene, MPG1, during appressorium formation, disease symptom development, and conidiation. The MPG1 gene sequence predicts a small protein belonging to a family of fungal proteins designated hydrophobins. Using random ascospore analysis and genetic complementation, we showed that MPG1 is necessary for infection-related development of Magnaporthe grisea on rice leaves and for full pathogenicity toward susceptible rice cultivars. The protein product of MPG1 appears to interact with hydrophobic surfaces, where it may act as a developmental sensor for appressorium formation. Ultrastructural studies revealed that MPG1 directs formation of a rodlet layer on conidia composed of interwoven ~5-nm rodlets, which contributes to their surface hydrophobicity. Using combined genetic and biochemical approaches, we identified a 15-kD secreted protein with characteristics that establish it as a class I hydrophobin. The protein is able to form detergent-insoluble high molecular mass complexes, is soluble in trifluoroacetic acid, and exhibits mobility shifts after treatment with performic acid. The production of this protein is directed by MPG1.
12239412	Phospholipase D (PLD; EC 3.1.4.4), which hydrolyzes phospholipids to generate phosphatidic acid, was examined in rice leaves undergoing susceptible or resistant interactions with Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae. RNA analysis of leaves undergoing resistant interactions revealed different expression patterns for PLD over 5 days relative to control plants or those undergoing susceptible interactions. By using an activity assay and immunoblot analysis, we identified three forms of PLD (1, 2, and 3). PLD 1 was observed only at 1 day after tissue infiltration. PLDs 2 and 3 were detected up to 3 days in all interactions. Immunoelectron microscopy studies revealed PLD to be associated predominantly with the plasma membrane. In cells undergoing a susceptible response, PLD was uniformly distributed along the plasma membrane at 3, 6, 12, and 24 hr after inoculation. However, within 12 hr after bacterial challenge in resistant interactions, PLD was clustered preferentially in membranes adjacent to bacterial cells.
12240835	In an attempt to understand the role of gene-associated CpG islands in the expression of plant genes, I determined the position of CpG islands within their associated genes and the expression of the genes in rice tissues. I examined the expression patterns of 75 rice genes by Northern hybridization analysis using RNAs isolated from four rice tissues: leaf, root, callus, and panicle at flowering stage. From the results of this analysis, I classified most of the genes into one of two groups: expression in a single tissue and expression in two or more tissues. There was a marked correlation between the expression of a gene in two or more tissues and the presence of a CpG island in its 5'-end (class 1 CpG island). Among the genes expressed in a single tissue, the genes expressed in callus were distinct from those expressed in other tissues in that a large proportion contained a class 1 CpG island. These results suggest that plant CpG islands may be useful for deducing the expression pattern of uncharacterized genes.
12241568	Predatory ants are omnipresent year-round in upland (dryland) rice fields in the Philippines. At least 14 species were identified of which the very aggressive Solenopsis geminata (Fabricius) and also Tapinoma sp. nr indicum Forel usually predominated. Some highly aggressive species, notably Pheidolegetonspp. and Bothriomyrmex dalyi Forel were localized. Solenopsis geminata flourished within many fields, not only during the crop season but also throughout dry season fallows where they remained aggressively predatory. Rice plants infested with brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) were usually found within a few hours and S. geminata workers were quickly recruited to N. lugens aggregates. Predation was usually incomplete and workers began to solicit the few remaining late instar or adult N. lugens survivors. These oviposited but no second generation nymphs appeared. There was a surge of recruited ants at the time of N. lugens egg hatch when surviving adults were also killed. Initially, S. geminataalone killed N. lugens aggregates less quickly than with the whole predator complex but ultimately its sole effect was as great as that of the complex. Scattered N. lugens adults, corresponding to numbers that initially colonize rice plants, were eliminated as quickly by S. geminata alone as by the predator complex. Tapinoma indicum occurring separately or with S. geminataon the same plant contributed to predation of N. lugens especially on young nymphs. Solenopsis geminataattacked other insects on rice notably leaffolders of which 97% mortality was recorded when they were exposed throughout egg and larval stages. The role of S. geminataas a predator of upland rice pests is discussed in the context of known biological control of pests of non-rice dryland crops in the tropics and sub-tropics by S. geminata and other Solenopsis spp.
12241843	Cambodia is a small, poor, and sparsely-populated country between Vietnam and Thailand, which is making a slow recovery from a long history of conflict. 80% of its 11.4 million people live by subsistence farming; rice is their main crop. Infant mortality is 89.4/1000, and 12% of children die before the age of 5 years. Life expectancy is around 50 years, and about 45,000 Khmers (Cambodians) are missing at least one limb from a 30 year deposit of landmines and dumping unexploded ordinance. Despite a decade of concerted effort by the international community to improve Cambodia's prospects, disease and poverty still define life for most of the population. In April, 2002, I visited Cambodia for the fourth time in 10 years, to see how medical aid projects were faring in particular, and to assess whether the past decade of international aid and intervention has improved the provision of health care for Khmers.
12242007	DNA polymerase delta (pol delta), which is comprised of at least two essential subunits, is an important enzyme involved in DNA replication and repair. We have cloned and characterized both the catalytic and small subunits of pol delta from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). The open reading frames of OsPoldelta1 and delta2 encoded a predicted product of 1105 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 124 kDa for OsPoldelta1, and of 429 residues with a molecular weight of 48 kDa for OsPoldelta2. Northern blotting analysis indicated that OsPoldelta1 and delta2 transcripts were expressed strongly in proliferating tissues such as shoot apical meristem. The expression patterns of both subunits in the organs were slightly different. Therefore, we analyzed the spatial distribution pattern of OsPoldelta1 transcripts by in situ hybridization. In the shoot apex, OsPoldelta1 mRNA was abundant in the shoot apical meristem. In the roots, the OsPoldelta1 transcript accumulated at high levels in the root apical meristem. In mature leaves, OsPoldelta1 was induced after UV irradiation, but OsPoldelta2 was not. The amounts of the OsPoldelta1 and delta2 mRNAs in the rice cells changed rapidly during cell proliferation. These results indicated that the levels of OsPoldelta expression are markedly correlated with cell proliferation, and that some of OsPoldelta might have special roles in the leaves.
12242226	Sequence analysis of a 13-kb telomeric region in O-137, a rice pathogenic isolate of Magnaporthe grisea, uncovered a novel gene, designated TLH1 (telomere-linked helicase 1). The TLH1 gene is a member of a gene family, and the sequences flanking this gene family have also been amplified. Genetic mapping showed that most members of the TLH gene family are tightly linked to the telomeres. A physical mapping technique, termed RecA-mediated Achilles' heel cleavage, and cloning and sequencing of two additional telomeres of O-137 associated with the TLH gene family confirmed that most members of the TLH gene family are located within 10 kb from the telomeric repeat. A survey of M. grisea strains from diverse hosts revealed that the gene family is ubiquitously present among rice pathogens, but is absent from almost all isolates of hosts other than rice. The gene family appears to be highly dynamic, undergoing frequent deletion/amplification events. Given the presence of similar helicase gene families in chromosome ends of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Ustilago maydis, the initial association of helicase genes with fungal telomeres might date back to very early stages of the fungal evolution.
12242331	A common, recurring theme in domesticated plants is the occurrence of pear-shaped fruit. A major quantitative trait locus (termed ovate) controlling the transition from round to pear-shaped fruit has been cloned from tomato. OVATE is expressed early in flower and fruit development and encodes a previously uncharacterized, hydrophilic protein with a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal, Von Willebrand factor type C domains, and an approximately equal 70-aa C-terminal domain conserved in tomato, Arabidopsis, and rice. A single mutation, leading to a premature stop codon, causes the transition of tomato fruit from round- to pear-shaped. Moreover, ectopic, transgenic expression of OVATE unevenly reduces the size of floral organs and leaflets, suggesting that OVATE represents a previously uncharacterized class of negative regulatory proteins important in plant development.
12242474	The biomass (X) of a biological population, described by growth models, depends only on time (t), i.e., X = f(t). Some parameters in these models are frequently taken as constants, but they may vary with growth processes under different ecological conditions. An extended logistic model including changes in the influence of meteorological factors is developed to simulate biomass accumulation processes of rice sown on different dates. The model may be generally described as X = f (p, t), in which p stands for meteorological factors. The model can be used to generalize population growth processes in experiments carried out under different environments. It is shown that the model may account for 96.6% of the variance of rice biomass on the basis of sowing dates, developmental stage, solar radiation and temperature in the Yangtze River valley in China.
12242506	Representational Difference Analysis was applied to characterize genomic differentiations between rice (Oryza sativa) and foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and subsequently to identify rice transposable elements. Rice was used as the tester and millet as the driver. A total of eleven, non-redundant, positive clones were isolated from the library. Their analysis revealed that they all represent dispersed repetitive DNA sequences. In addition, homology searches using the BLAST procedure showed that they correspond to seven distinct rice transposable elements. Three had been previously identified as gypsy-like retroelements (Retrosat1, RIRE3 and RIRE8). The remaining four are novel: we named them hipa (a CACTA-like transposon), houba (a copia-like retroelement), hopi and dagul (two gypsy-like retroelements). The RDA clones were used as probes in Southern hybridization experiments with genomic DNAs of several species from the family Poaceae. The results suggest that the genomic differentiations associated with the activity of these transposable elements are of relatively recent origin. In addition, comparison of the hybridization patterns obtained for several Oryza species suggests that several independent amplifications of these transposable elements might have occurred within the genus.
12242583	Although an important secondary prevention trial reported an impressive protection by a Mediterranean dietary pattern on reinfarction and cardiovascular death, scarce direct epidemiologic evidence is currently available regarding the role of the Mediterranean diet in the aetiology of coronary heart disease. The aim of the study was to quantify the risk reduction of incident myocardial infarction provided by a Mediterranean dietary pattern. We included 342 subjects (171 patients who suffered their first acute myocardial infarction and 171 matched controls) in a case-control study. A validated semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire (136 items) was used. We defined an a priori Mediterranean dietary pattern. We assessed six food items that we considered protective: 1) olive oil, 2) fiber, 3) fruits, 4)vegetables, 5) fish and 6) alcohol. For each of these six dietary factors, we calculated the distribution according to quintiles within the study and assigned each participant a score of 1 to 5 corresponding to the quintile of intake, with 1 representing the lowest and 5 representing the highest quintile. We also estimated the quintiles of two other elements assumed to be associated with a higher risk: 7) meat/meat products and 8) some items with high glycaemic load (white bread, pasta and rice). For these two elements we inversely ranked the score, with 1 representing the highest and 5 representing the lowest quintile. Finally, we summed up the eight quintile values for each participant.A second score (post hoc pattern) was built using only a single cut-off point for these eight elements. The cut-off points for each element in this post hoc pattern were decided according to the dose-response relationships between the consumption of each food item and the risk of myocardial infarction observed in the analyses that used quintiles of each food item. For both patterns, we found that the higher the score, the lower the odds ratio of myocardial infarction. A significant linear trend was apparent after adjustment for the main cardiovascular risk factors. For each additional point in the a priori Mediterranean pattern (observed range: 9-38) the odds ratio (95 % confidence intervals) was 0.92 (0.86-0.98). This estimate was 0.55 (0.42-0.73) when we used the post hoc pattern (range: 0-8). Our data support the hypothesis that a Mediterranean diet (that emphasizes olive oil, fiber, fruits, vegetables, fish and alcohol and reduces meat/meat products) can be an effective measure for reducing the risk of myocardial infarction. However, our results support the exclusion of refined cereals with a high glycaemic load as healthy elements of this pattern.
12242633	Corn cob hydrolysates, with xylose as the dominant sugar, were fermented to ethanol by recombinant Escherichia coli KO11. When inoculum was grown on LB medium containing glucose, fermentation of the hydrolysate was completed in 163 h and ethanol yield was 0.50 g ethanol/g sugar. When inoculum was grown on xylose, ethanol yield dropped, but fermentation was faster (113 h). Hydrolysate containing 72.0 g/l xylose and supplemented with 20.0 g/l rice bran was readily fermented, producing 36.0 g/l ethanol within 70 h. Maximum ethanol concentrations were not higher for fermentations using higher cellular concentration inocula. A simulation of an industrial process integrating pentose fermentation by E. coli and hexose fermentation by yeast was carried out. At the first step, E. coli fermented the hydrolysate containing 85.0 g/l xylose, producing 40.0 g/l ethanol in 94 h. Baker's yeast and sucrose (150.0 g/l) were then added to the spent fermentation broth. After 8 h of yeast fermentation, the ethanol concentration reached 104.0 g/l. This two-stage fermentation can render the bioconversion of lignocellulose to ethanol more attractive due to increased final alcohol concentration.
12243348	A marker-assisted selection (MAS) breeding program was used to improve the plant regenerability of indica rice. A significant quantitative trait loci (QTL) that is associated with the capacity for green plant regeneration in the anther culture of rice was mapped on chromosome 10 using recombinant inbred (RI) population from Milyang 23/Gihobyeo. The marker that was chosen to follow the QTL region was used in MAS. This marker co-segregated with the regeneration ability in F2 individuals that were derived from MGRI 079/IR 36. In order to clarify the relationship between this marker and plant regenerability, the backcross population was screened with a RFLP marker. The capacity of plant regeneration of the backcross population was clearly distinguished by the marker genotype. The development of near isogenic line (NILs) with high regenerability through MAS will save time, labor, and cost in indica rice breeding.
12243996	To gather information on the level of disease awareness among the carers of asthmatic children and to determine whether it can help us draw inferences about the possible impact of prevailing perceptions on the management of asthma? Subjects were children's parents/guardians visiting the asthma clinic, Children's Hospital, Islamabad. The questionnaire included items on general understanding of asthma, its triggers, and management. Two hundred carers of asthmatic patients participated. Thirty six per cent thought that asthma is a communicable disease. Rice and oily foods were blamed for asthmatic exacerbations in up to 57% of cases; 82% felt that inhalation therapy is effective in controlling asthma symptoms. Asthma awareness is inadequate. The majority of the carers unnecessarily blamed and withheld many nutritious foods. Social stigmata can undermine the self esteem of growing asthmatics. Lack of awareness is not significantly related to the socioeconomic or educational background. Awareness raising strategies are needed in the community.
12255395
12259373
12259637
12261792
12261842
12263427
12264271
12264685
12264858	The author describes the role of population pressure in the current transition from tree crops to wet rice cultivation (sawah) in Northwestern Kalimantan, Indonesia. He contends that this change is occurring "because the senescent trees no longer produce enough commodities to exchange for rice to feed an enlarged population." The historical background is described, policies of the Indonesian government are discussed, and data are presented on the rate of population growth
12265407
12265924
12266147
12266182
12266917
12267503
12267714
12268240
12268738
12269207	The impact of rice price-support policies, designed to increase farmers' income and reduce rural-urban migration in the Republic of Korea, is examined for the period 1976-1980 using a polytomous logistic model. "Our findings revealed that the elasticity of migration with respect to rice yield per origin farm household is positive and is significantly different from zero. The elasticities of migration with respect to rate of urbanization, particularly urban concentration-agglomeration, and population size of the destination are also positive and are significantly different from zero.... Our findings questioned the wisdom of employing rice price price-support programs as a viable policy for reducing interregional and rural-to-urban migration in Korea."
12269935	Lipid transfer proteins (LTP) are highly conserved and widely distributed throughout the plant kingdom. Recent studies demonstrated immunological cross-reactivity between LTP from many botanically unrelated fruits and vegetables and concluded that LTP are pan-allergens. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical relevance of such cross-reactivity in a group of subjects monosensitized to LTP. Twenty LTP-hypersensitive patients were selected from a population of about 600 subjects with history of Rosaceae allergy by means of: 1) negative skin prick test (SPT) with a commercial birch pollen extract; 2) positive SPT with a commercial plum extract, rich in LTP but virtually lacking both Bet v 1-like proteins and profilin; 3) in-vitro IgE reactivity to the 9-10 kDa fraction of peach peel or immunoblot with peach peel showing a single band at 10 kDa; and 4) total inhibition of reactivity to whole peach extract (containing Bet v 1-related allergen, profilin, and LTP) by purified peach LTP on enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). Allergy to foods other than Rosaceae was ascertained by careful interview and analysis of medical recordings. SPT with a large series of plant-derived foods were carried out as well. The cross reactivity between LTPs from botanically unrelated plant-derived foods was assessed by ELISA inhibition tests using walnut and peanut extracts as substrate, and peach LTP as inhibitor. All patients reported allergic reactions after the ingestion of at least one from a large number of vegetable foods other than Rosaceae, and in several cases clinical reactions were very severe (anaphylaxis, asthma, urticaria/angioedema). Nuts and peanuts were the most frequently reported causes of allergic reactions (80% and 40% of patients, respectively). All patients showed positive SPT to several non-Rosaceae food extracts. SPT with nuts, peanut, legumes, celery, rice, and corn were positive in the majority of patients. In ELISA inhibition studies, absorption of sera with peach LTP caused complete inhibition of IgE reactivity to walnut and peanut in all cases. LTP is a clinically relevant pan-allergen. Most Rosaceae-allergic, LTP-hypersensitive patients experience adverse reactions after ingestion of botanically unrelated plant-derived foods as well. In view of the high prevalence and severity of the allergic reactions induced, hazelnut, walnut, and peanut should be regarded as potentially hazardous for these patients.
12270679	The antioxidant cocktail EM-X derived from ferment of unpolished rice, papaya and sea weeds with effective microorganisms (EM) of lactic acid bacteria, yeast, and photosynthetic bacteria is widely available in South-East Asia. Oral administration of a EM-X to rats for 7 days inhibited the ferric-nitrilotriacetic acid (Fe-NTA)-dependent oxidation of fatty acids with protections directed towards docosahexanoic, arachidonic, docosapentanenoic acids, oleic, linoleic and eicosadieonoic acids in the liver and kidney. But only the protections of oxidation to docosahexanoic, arachidonic acid in the kidney were statistically significant. Treatment of rats with EM-X prior to the intraperitoneal administration of Fe-NTA led to a reduction in the overall levels of conjugated dienes (CD) measured in the kidney by 27% and in the liver by 19% suggesting inhibition of lipid peroxidation in these organs. The levels of glutathione and alpha-tocopherol were largely unaffected suggesting that the protection by the regular strength of EM-X was confined to the inhibition of lipid peroxidation in vivo, a point dependent on the concentrations of bioactive flavonoids.
12271080	Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast, is one of the most destructive fungal pathogens of rice throughout the world. Infection of rice by M. grisea requires the formation of an appressorium, a darkly pigmented, dome-shaped structure. The germ tube tip differentiates into an appressorium following germination of conidia on a leaf surface. When conidia germinate on growth medium or other noninductive surfaces, the emerging germ tube does not differentiate and continues to grow vegetatively. Little is known about the endogenous or exogenous signals controlling the developmental process of infection structure formation. We show here that a hydrophobic surface was sufficient for the induction of the appressorium. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the addition of cAMP, its analogs (8-bromo cAMP and N6-monobutyryl cAMP), or 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase) to germinating conidia or to vegetative hyphae induced appressorium formation on noninductive surfaces. The identification of cAMP as a mediator of infection structure formation provides a clue to the regulation of this developmental process. Elucidation of the mechanism involved is not only of biological interest but may also provide the basis for new disease control strategies.
12271140	Using a genome-wide approach, we asked how many transporter genes contribute to symbiotic phosphate uptake and analyzed their evolutionary conservation. Considering the sequenced rice genome at hand, only the Oryza sativa phosphate transporter (OsPT) gene OsPT11 was specifically induced during the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. This induction was confined to the root system and was tightly correlated with the degree of root colonization by Glomus intraradices. OsPT11 activation was independent of the nutritional status of the plant and phosphate availability in the rhizosphere. Moreover, infection of roots with the fungal pathogens Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium moniliforme did not activate OsPT11, corroborating the high signal specificity for OsPT11 activation in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. OsPT11 expression complemented a defect in phosphate uptake in a yeast strain mutated in its high-affinity P(i) transporter (pho84), thereby confirming its function. Recently, a phosphate transporter gene in potato was shown to be induced during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Assessment of the phylogenetic relationship of the rice and potato protein revealed that the rice is nonorthologous to the potato protein. Further, there are no structural commonalities in the promoter regions. Thus, although cytological and physiological features of the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis seem to be conserved, the molecular components may differ significantly between distantly related plant species.
12278251
12279571
12279928
12279995
12281025
12281245
12281430
12281575
12281792
12281870
12283351
12283697
12284331
12284384
12284614
12284666
12284675
12284875
12284924
12285372
12285815
12286357
12286576
12286884
12286977
12287305
12287486
12287620	Weaning should start when the baby turns 4 months old. At this stage (4 to 6 months), milk is no longer enough. Parents should introduce new foods which can meet the fast-increasing nutrition needs of the child. Among the latest materials produced by the Video Radio Production Division of the Nutrition Center of the Philippines is a VTR training module entitled "Karagdagang Pagkain ni Baby" (Weaning Foods for Baby), designed to strengthen this important aspect of child care. Specifically, the module seeks to encourage parents to introduce foods in addition to breastmilk to their 4 to 6 month old children and to start giving them "complete" meals from 6 months onward. It provides suggestions on the kinds of foods or food combinations to give to the baby and encourages home food production (backyard gardening, poultry-raising etc) to supply food requirements of growing children. Contents of the module include how-to's on weaning food preparation (mashing, straining, flaking, chopping, scraping, etc), prescriptions on the kinds and amounts of foods for babies; and food combinations (porridge or rice and a viand from the 3 basic food groups: energy-giving, body building and regulating). For instance, at 4 months old, the baby may be given lugao (porridge), soup and fruits; at 5 months, eggs, vegetables and beans; at 6 months, fish/meat, oil or gata (coconut oil). With a running time of 18 minutes, the module uses computer graphics to highlight food items, recommended amounts, and age group requirements in the text, and applies digital multi-effects to ensure smooth traditions.
12287763
12288352
12288549
12289043
12289092
12289831
12289876
12290154
12290546
12290702
12290747
12291341
12292171
12292312
12292317
12292590
12293626
12293742	Cholera has now lasted for about 6 months in our hilly region in Mwanza, Tanzania. The heavy rains coupled with the poor sanitary conditions and sewage disposal system have worsened the situation. The pit latrines used by the majority of low-income people are either not adequately and properly used for excreta disposal or they overflow. At our regional referral and consultancy hospital we were, for a period, receiving cholera cases which should have been managed in isolation at other centers. (This situation has now been rectified.) Some of the children with cholera either vomited or passed Ascaris lumbricoides in their rice water-like stools. Previously, these children were not being treated for ascariasis. Practical steps can be taken to reduce the transmission of fecal-borne infections. For more than 30 years we have failed to have a latrine for each family; we should aim for at least one for every 10 households. The provision of clean tap-water and facilities to deworm pre-school children would also be welcomed. In addition, medical officers should actively instruct the community in the science of hygiene.
12293896
12294473
12294732
12296520	Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) is a quick and affordable approach to map DNA sequences to specific chromosomal regions. Although FISH is one of the most important physical mapping techniques, research on the resolution of FISH on different cytological targets is scarce in plants. In this study, we report the resolution of FISH mapping on mitotic prometaphase chromosomes, meiotic pachytene chromosomes and extended DNA fibers in rice. A majority of the FISH signals derived from bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones separated by approximately 1 Mb of DNA cannot be resolved on mitotic prometaphase chromosomes. In contrast, the relative positions of closely linked or even partially overlapping BAC clones can be resolved on a euchromatic region of rice chromosome 10 at the early pachytene stage. The resolution of pachytene FISH is dependent on early or late pachytene stages and also on the location of the DNA probes in the euchromatic or heterochromatic regions. We calibrated the fiber-FISH technique in rice using seven sequenced BAC clones. The average DNA extension was 3.21 kb/microm among the seven BAC clones. Fiber-FISH results derived from a BAC contig that spanned 1 Mb DNA matched remarkably to the sequencing data, demonstrating the high resolution of this technique in cytological mapping.
12297015	N-Acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase (beta-HexNAc'ase) (EC 3.2.1.52) was purified from rice seeds (Oryza sativa L. var. Dongjin) using ammonium sulfate (80%) precipitation, Sephadex G-150, CM-Sephadex, and DEAE-Sephadex chromatography, sequentially. The activities were separated into 7 fractions (Fsub1;- F7sub7) by CM-Sephadex chromatography. Among them, F6 was further purified to homogeneity with a 13.0% yield and 123.3 purification-fold. The molecular mass was estimated to be about 52 kDa on SDS-PAGE and 37.4 kDa on Sephacryl S- 300 gel filtration. The enzyme catalyzed the hydrolysis of both p-nitrophenyl-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminide (pNP-GlcNAc) and p-nitrophenyl-N-acetyl-beta-D-galactosaminide (pNPGalNAc) as substrates, which are typical properties of beta-HexNAc'ase. The ratio of the pNP-GlcNAc'ase activity to the pNP-GalNAc'ase activity was 4.0. However, it could not hydrolyze chitin, chitosan, pNP-beta-glucopyranoside, or pNP-beta-galactopyranoside. The enzyme showed K(M), V(max) and K(cat) for pNP-GlcNAc of 1.65mM, 79.49mM min(1), and 4.79 x 10(6) min(1), respectively. The comparison of kinetic values for pNPGlcNAc and pNP-GalNAc revealed that the two enzyme activities are associated with a single binding site. The purified enzyme exhibited optimum pH and temperature for pNPGlcNAc of 5.0 and 50 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme activity for pNP-GlcNAc was stable at pH 5.0-5.5 and 20-40 degrees C. The enzyme activity was completely inhibited at a concentration of 0.1 mM HgCl(2) and AgNO(3), suggesting that the intact thiol group is essential for activity. Chloramine T completely inhibited the activity, indicating the possible involvement of methionines in the mechanism of the enzyme.
12297142	(137)Cs contamination in living or agricultural environments may contribute to significant human internal exposure and cause adverse health effects. Contamination by (137)Cs and other radionuclides was detected in a river valley in northern Taiwan, in the 1990s. Given that the radioactivity appeared to be widely distributed in soil, rice and several other food plants in the areas surrounding several communities in the late 1990s [Y.B. Nabyvanents, T.F. Gesell, M.H. Jen, W.P. Chang, Distribution of (137)Cs in soil along Ta-han River Valley in Tau-Yuan County in Taiwan, J. Environ. Radioact. 54 (2001) 391], its possible impact on local occupants was further studied. Ten subjects in three families residing continuously in the highly contaminated valley and 10 non-exposed subjects matched for age, sex, and cigarette smoking habits from neighboring communities were evaluated for micronucleus frequencies and for degenerative nuclear changes in urinary exfoliated epithelial cells (EE cells). Micronucleus frequencies (per thousand) were significantly higher in the exposed subjects (4.79+/-1.21 per thousand) than in the reference subjects (2.73+/-0.59 per thousand; Wilcoxon 2-sample test, P value 0.0004). There were also higher frequencies of EE cells with karyolysis and condensed chromatin in the exposed subjects than in reference subjects. These results indicate that genotoxic and/or mutagenic effects on urinary epithelial cells occur in human subjects who have resided for a long time in a radioactively contaminated environment.
12307031
12308271
12311452
12312142
12313290	Ricewater has been proved to be an effective treatment of diarrhea by investigators at the International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B), who have shown that cereal-based solutions are even more effective than the much publicized mixtures of water, sugar, and salts. Diarrhea kills 8 or 9 children under the age of 5 every minute, often simply by draining out of them the water and salts the body needs to keep functioning. Only a few years ago, the conventional treatment for severe cases was a drip of saline fluid into the patients arm through a needle. But this requires hospital treatment, and few 3rd world children ever see the inside of a hospital. Recently, "oral rehydration therapy" (ORT)--giving children a carefully measured mix of water, sugar (or pure glucose), and sodium chloride and potassium salts--has gained world recognition as a simple, cheap, and effective treatment. A village mother can give it in her home, either from a prepackaged powder mixed with water or from solution she mixes herself. Sugar, or the glucose into which the body converts sugar, continues to be absorbed across the intestinal walls during diarrhea--when the body is absorbing little else. This process aids the absorption of the all-important salts. The standard ORT formula for a liter of water calls for 20 g of glucose or 40 g of household sugar. The newer cereal-based ORT replaces the sugar with rice powder. Tests have shown that 80-86% of the rice powder is converted into glucose and absorbed. According to Dr. A. Majid Molloa of ICDDR,B who pioneered the use of rice powder in ORT, 1 liter of rice powder solution is twice as effective as 2 liters of sugar solution. There are several advantages in using rice powder in ORT. Rice is the staple food of more than 1/2 the world's population, particularly so where diarrhea is a killer. It is grown and eaten throughout Asia, and in many parts of Latin America and Africa. Some rice is usually available in the poorest village homes, whereas sugar may not be. The rice solution is easy to prepare, and boiling prevents contamination. The next step is to extend cereal-based ORT to other countries, and to experiment with other cereals, such as wheat, maize, sorghum, and also with potato and casasva. Indonesia, India, China, and Kenya have already made a beginning in this direction.
12313437
12314106
12314110
12314275
12314276
12314387
12314480	"This article describes to what extent a rice-growing development project, begun in 1979 in northern Cameroon, modified the demographic and migratory characteristics of the population within the zone of influence. A representative sample and a control group were followed from 1979 to 1981 using a multi-round survey technique. Data from the general population census (1976) were used to study the population's characteristics from 1976 to 1979." The study population is linked to 1976 census data, and various demographic estimates for the population are produced. An examination of migration patterns in the area indicates that "the project had not yet succeeded in attracting the populations living in the more distant zones two years after its installation." (SUMMARY IN ENG)
12315101
12316206
12316918
12317026
12317929
12318130
12318545
12318772
12319217
12319495
12319516
12319538
12320161
12320292
12320319
12320322
12320922
12321018
12321308	Continued high population growth in developing countries is likely to lead to intense pressure to produce more rice, according to estimates from the Manila-based International Rice Research Institute (IRRI). Ms. Mercedita Sombilla, a research scientist with IRRI, said that the projected increase in Asia's population will be the major force in accelerating demand for rice. According to various issues of the ESCAP Population Data Sheet, the population of the region will have increased from 3.3 billion in 1995 to almost 4.6 billion in 2020. The greatest growth in demand is expected to come from the lower-income countries of Asia, such as Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Philippines, and Viet Nam, she said. However, in terms of overall food supplies, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) estimates that food supplies will be sufficient. "Expecting reasonably strong productivity growth to be sustainable, no global food crisis seems likely to occur" between now and 2020, the organization stated in its report entitled "The World in 2020: Towards a New Global Age".
12321567
12322450
12322472
12322939	The larval habitats of malaria vectors near the Demilitarized Zone of the Republic of Korea (ROK) were sampled from June through September 2000 to determine larval abundance and to identify environmental factors associated with high larval density. Six primary habitats were identified: rice fields, irrigation ditches, drainage ditches, stream pools, irrigation pools, and marshes. Most habitats harbored similar densities of larvae until August and September, when population densities in rice fields declined and those in irrigation pools increased. The primary vector in the ROK, Anopheles sinensis, occurred in water with a wide range of values for environmental factors, including pH, total dissolved solids, percent of surface covered with floating vegetation, and nitrate and phosphate concentrations. No environmental factor or combination of factors were found that were predictive of high larval densities. This study suggests that larval Anopheles are capable of developing in a wide range of stagnant, freshwater habitats in northern Kyunggi Province, ROK.
12323097	At least 43% of the human genome is occupied by repetitive elements. Moreover, around 51% of the rice genome is occupied by repetitive elements. The analysis of repetitive elements reveals that repetitive elements in our genome may have been very important in the evolutionary genomics. The first part of this study is to describe a database of repetitive elements - RSDB. The RSDB database contains repetitive elements, which are classified into the following categories: exact, tandem, and similar. The interfaces needed to query and show the results and statistical data, such as the relationship between repetitive elements and genes, cross-references of repetitive elements among different organisms, and so on, are provided. The second part of this study then attempts to mine the putative binding site for information on how combinations of the known regulatory sites and overrepresented repetitive elements in RSDB are distributed in the promoter regions of groups of functionally related genes. The overrepresented repetitive elements appearing in the associations are possible transcription factor binding sites. Our proposed approach is applied to Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the promoter regions of Yeast ORFs. The complete contents of RSDB and partial putative binding sites are available to the public at www.rsdb.csie.ncu.edu.tw. The readers may download partial query results.
12324265	Over the last decade, many varied resources have become available for genome studies in rice. These resources include over 4000 DNA markers, several bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries, P-1 derived artificial chromosome (PAC) libraries and yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) libraries (genomic DNA clones, filters and end-sequences), retrotransposon tagged lines, and many chemical and irradiated mutant lines. Based on these, high-density genetic maps, cereal comparative maps, YAC and BAC physical maps, and quantitative trait loci (QTL) maps have been constructed, and 93 % of the genome has also been sequenced. These data have revealed key features of the genetic and physical structure of the rice genome and of the evolution of cereal chromosomes. This Botanical Briefing examines aspects of how the rice genome is organized structurally, functionally and evolutionarily. Emphasis is placed on the rice centromere, which is composed of long arrays of centromere-specific repetitive sequences. Differences and similarities amongst various cereal centromeres are detailed. These indicate essential features of centromere function. Another view of various kinds of interactive relationships within and between genomes, which could play crucial roles in genome organization and evolution, is also introduced. Constructed genetic and physical maps indicate duplication of chromosomal segments and spatial association between specific chromosome regions. A genome-wide survey of interactive genetic loci has identified various reproductive barriers that may drive speciation of the rice genome. The significance of these findings in genome organization and evolution is discussed.
12324580	The poor definition of pathotype variation in the rice blast fungus has historically handicapped strategies for reducing blast disease damage to the world's rice crop. We have employed a probe for a dispersed repeated DNA sequence called MGR [Hamer et al. (1989). Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86, 9981-9985] to construct genotype-specific, EcoRl restriction fragment length profiles (MGR-DNA fingerprints) from United States field isolates of this fungus. By using a blind-test design, we demonstrated that MGR-DNA fingerprints distinguished the major pathotypes in the United States, accurately identified the pathotypes of isolates collected over a 30-year period, and defined the organization of clonal lineages within and among pathotype groups. These results resolved a lingering controversy regarding rice blast pathotype stability and illustrated new opportunities for tracking the population dynamics and evolution of this important crop pathogen.
12324591	The photoreceptor phytochrome is encoded by a small multigene family in higher plants. phyA encodes the well-characterized etiolated-tissue phytochrome. The product of the phyB gene, which has properties resembling those of "green tissue" phytochrome, is as yet poorly characterized. We have developed a phytochrome B overexpression system for analysis of the structure and function of this protein. Using newly generated polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies that are selective for phytochrome B, we have demonstrated high levels of expression of full-length rice and Arabidopsis phytochrome B under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis. The overexpressed phytochrome is spectrally active, undergoes red/far-red-light-dependent conformational changes, is synthesized in its inactive red light-absorbing form, and is stable in the light. Overexpression of phytochrome B is tightly correlated with a short hypocotyl phenotype in transgenic seedlings. This phenotype is strictly light dependent, thus providing direct evidence that phytochrome B is a biologically functional photoreceptor. Based on similarities to phenotypes obtained by overexpression of phytochrome A, it appears that phytochromes A and B can control similar responses in the plant.
12336692
12337651
12338149
12338242
12340322
12341727
12342139
12343342
12343498
12344637
12344645
12344717
12345004
12345472	ORT is the administration of fluid by mouth to prevent or correct the dehydration that is a consequence of diarrhea. Through the ages, and in most cultures, many claims to have used various types of fluids for their children during diarrhea. In the Indian sub-continent, the use of rock salt with soft cooked rice in a thick gruel has been reported as far back as 3000 years ago. But effective and safe treatment had to wait the discovery of the scientific basis for oral therapy. Most of the trials necessary for this were conducted at CRL/ICDDR,B during the period 1964 to 1968. In 1975, based on the work performed at CRL/ICDDR, B, UNICEF and WHO agreed on a single formula oral rehydration solution, and this has become known as ORS. This formula results in safe and optimal absorption of essential electrolytes and thus rehydration. ORS consists of 4 constituents: 1. sodium chloride, 3.5 grams; 2.trisodium citrate, dihydrate, 2.9 grams; 3. potassium chloride, 1.5 grams; 4. glucose, 20,0 grams; these are to be dissolved in 1 liter of clean drinking water. ORS is generally provided pre-packaged in a dry form to be reconstituted when required.
12345475
12345476
12346314
12347919
12348369
12348379
12348869
12350081	The effects of rice starch-isoflavone diet or potato starch-isoflavone diet on plasma concentration of isoflavones, plasma lipids, cecal enzyme activity, and intestinal microflora were studied. Male 15-wk-old mice were fed a rice-starch-based or potato-starch-based diet supplemented with isoflavones for 4 wk, and plasma samples, cecal contents, and feces were collected individually. Plasma equol concentration was significantly higher in the potato-isoflavone diet group than in the rice-isoflavone diet group, but no significant difference was observed in plasma daidzein or genistein concentrations. Plasma total cholesterol concentration was higher in the potato-isoflavone diet group, but no significant difference was observed in plasma triglyceride concentration. Both cecal beta-glucuronidase and beta-glucosidase activities were significantly higher in the rice-isoflavone diet group. The number of bifidobacteria was significantly higher in the potato-isoflavone diet group. These results indicate that different types of starches have different influences on plasma isoflavone and suggest that the influences might be through the change of host physiology and/or the metabolism and composition of intestinal microflora.
12353708	Rice starch added to bath water was studied for its possible beneficial effects on impaired barrier function as evaluated by transepidermal water loss measurements. The forearm skin of healthy volunteers was irritated by sodium lauryl sulphate. Exposure to rice-starch-containing bath water--twice daily for 15 min--led to a 20% improvement on the healing capacity of damaged skin. The beneficial effect was also observed for a rice-starch-containing lipid-free bath formulation, and an oil-in-water bath lotion enriched with evening primrose oil. Skin barrier function in patients with atopic dermatitis also improved after the addition of starch powder to bath water. Rice starch in powder or formulated in a bath product can therefore be recommended as a skin repair bathing additive for barrier damaged skin, particularly in the case of atopic dermatitis patients.
12353882	Methanotrophic bacteria play a crucial role in regulating the emission of CH4 from rice fields into the atmosphere. We investigated the CH4 oxidation activity together with the diversity of methanotrophic bacteria in ten rice field soils from different geographic locations. Upon incubation of aerated soil slurries under 7% CH4, rates of CH4 oxidation increased after a lag phase of 1-4 days and reached values of 3-10 micromol d(-1) g-dw(-1) soil. The methanotrophic community was assayed by retrieval of the pmoA gene which encodes the a subunit of the particulate methane monooxygenase. After extraction of DNA from actively CH4-oxidizing soil samples and PCR-amplification of the pmoA, the community was analyzed by Denaturant Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE) and Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP). DGGE bands were excised, the pmoA re-amplified, sequenced and the encoded amino acid sequence comparatively analyzed by phylogenetic treeing. The analyses allowed the detection of pmoA sequences related to the following methanotrophic genera: the type-I methanotrophs Methylobacter, Methylomicrobium, Methylococcus and Methylocaldum, and the type-II methanotrophs Methylocystis and Methylosinus. T-RFLP analysis detected a similar diversity, but type-II pmoA more frequently than DGGE. All soils but one contained type-II in addition to type-I methanotrophs. Type-I Methylomonas was not detected at all. Different combinations of methanotrophic genera were detected in the different soils. However, there was no obvious geographic pattern of the distribution of methanotrophs.
12354195	Salt-tolerant Pokkali rice plants accumulate higher polyamines (PAs) such as spermidine (Spd) and spermine (Spm) in response to salinity stress, while the sensitive cultivarM-1-48 is unable to maintain high titres of these PAs under similar conditions. The effects of the triamine Spd and the tetramine Spm on physiological and biochemical changes in 12-day-old rice seedlings were investigated during salinity stress to determine whether they could protect the sensitive plants from stress effects. At physiological concentrations Spd and Spm significantly prevented the leakage of electrolytes and amino acids from roots and shoots induced by salinity stress. To different degrees they also prevented chlorophyll loss, inhibition of photochemical reactions of photosynthesis as well as downregulation of chloroplast-encoded genes like psbA, psbB, psbE and rbcL, indicating a positive correlation between salt tolerance and accumulation of higher PAs in rice. The inhibitory effect of salinity stress and its reversal by exogenous PAs were more pronounced in the salt-sensitiveM-1-48 plants than in the tolerant Pokkali plants.
12354914	The slender rice (slr1-1) mutant, carrying a lethal and recessive single mutation, has a constitutive gibberellin (GA)-response phenotype and behaves as if it were saturated with GAs [Ikeda et al. (2001) Plant Cell 13, 999]. The SLR1 gene, with sequence homology to members of the plant-specific GRAS gene family, is a mediator of the GA signal transduction process. In the slender rice, GA-inducible alpha-amylase was produced from the aleurone layer without applying GA. GA-independent alpha-amylase production in the mutant was inhibited by applying abscisic acid (ABA). Shoot elongation in the mutant was also suppressed by ABA, indicating that the slender rice responds normally to ABA. Interestingly, shoot ABA content was 10-fold higher in the mutant than in the wild type, while there was no difference in root ABA content. Expression of the Rab16A gene, which is known to be ABA inducible, was about 10-fold higher in shoots of the mutant than in those of the wild type. These results indicate that constitutive activation of the GA signal transduction pathway by the slr1-1 mutation promotes the endogenous ABA level.
12354919	Changes in chlorophyll fluorescence, P700(+)-absorbance and gas exchange during the induction phase and steady state of photosynthesis were simultaneously examined in rice (Oryza sativa L.), including the rbcS antisense plants. The quantum yield of photosystem II (PhiPSII) increased more rapidly than CO(2) assimilation in 20% O(2). This rapid increase in PhiPSII resulted from the electron flux through the water-water cycle (WWC) because of its dependency on O(2). The electron flux of WWC reached a maximum just after illumination, and rapidly generated non-photochemical quenching (NPQ). With increasing CO(2) assimilation, the electron flux of WWC and NPQ decreased. In 2% O(2), WWC scarcely operated and PhiPSI was always higher than PhiPSII. This suggested that cyclic electron flow around PSI resulted in the formation of NPQ, which remained at higher levels in 2% O(2). The electron flux of WWC in the rbcS antisense plants was lower, but these plants always showed a higher NPQ. This was also caused by the operation of the cyclic electron flow around PSI because of a higher ratio of PhiPSI/PhiPSII, irrespective of O(2) concentration. The results indicate that WWC functions as a starter of photosynthesis by generating DeltapH across thylakoid membranes for NPQ formation, supplying ATP for carbon assimilation. However, WWC does not act to maintain a high NPQ, and PhiPSII is down-regulated by DeltapH generated via the cyclic electron flow around PSI.
12354926	We analyzed the growth rate and the cell wall properties of coleoptiles of rice seedlings grown at 23.6 degrees C for 68.5, 91.5 and 136 h during the Space Shuttle STS-95 mission. In space, elongation growth of coleoptiles was stimulated and the cell wall extensibility increased. Also, the levels of the cell wall polysaccharides per unit length of coleoptiles and the relative content of the high molecular mass matrix polysaccharides decreased in space. These differences in the cell wall polysaccharides could be involved in increasing the cell wall extensibility, leading to growth stimulation of rice coleoptiles in space.
12354966	Regulated gene expression of chimeric genes has been studied extensively in electroporated protoplasts. The applicability of these assays is limited, however, because protoplasts are not always physiologically identical to the cells from which they are derived. We have developed a procedure to electroporate DNA into intact and organized leaf structures of rice. Optimization of the new gene delivery system mainly involved eliminating explant-released nucleases, prolonging the DNA/explant incubation time, and expanding the pulse time. Using a [beta]-glucuronidase gene under the control of constitutive promoters, we demonstrated that all cell types within a leaf base were susceptible to electroporation-mediated DNA uptake. Although the technique was initially developed for leaf bases of young etiolated rice seedlings, we proved that it was equally applicable both to other monocotyledons, including wheat, maize, and barley, and to other explants, such as etiolated and green sheath and lamina tissues from rice. Transient gene expression assays with electroporated leaf bases showed that the promoter from a pea light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein gene displayed both light- and chloroplast-dependent expression in rice, and that the promoter from the Arabidopsis S-adenosylmethionine synthetase gene was, as in transgenic Arabidopsis and tobacco, preferentially expressed in cells surrounding the vascular bundles.
12355110
12355160	The activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) has been previously implicated in signal transduction during plant responses to pathogen attack as well as to various environmental stresses. We have isolated from rice a new MAPK cDNA, OsBIMK1 (O ryza s ativa L. BTH-induced MAPK 1), which encodes a 369-amino-acid protein with moderate to high nucleotide sequence similarity to previously reported plant MAPK genes. OsBIMK1 contains all 11 of the MAPK conserved subdomains and the phosphorylation-activation motif, TEY. We analyzed in detail the expression of OsBIMK1 upon treatment with various chemical and biological inducers of resistance responses in rice and in both incompatible and compatible interactions between rice and Magnaporthe grisea. Expression of OsBIMK1 was activated rapidly upon treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH) as well as with dichloroisonicotinic acid, probenazole, jasmonic acid and its methyl ester, Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae, or wounding. Expression of OsBIMK1 was induced rapidly during the first 36 h after inoculation with M. grisea in BTH-treated rice seedlings and in an incompatible interaction between M. grisea and a blast-resistant rice genotype. BTH treatment induced a systemic activation of OsBIMK1 expression. These results suggest that OsBIMK1 plays an important role in rice disease resistance.
12356221	Diarrhoea, a major cause of morbidity and mortality can be produced by a variety of etiological factors. Management protocol includes assessment of the child, physical examination, lab-evaluation, assessment of severity of dehydration and rehydration therapy using either of the following - WHO - ORS, Home available fluids (HAF), sugar salt solution (SSS), improve WHO-ORS, Amino acid fortified ORS, rice based ORS, low osmolarity ORS. Intravenous fluids are required if patients can't accept orally. Commonly observed electrolyte disturbances are hypernatremia, hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Concussion is a common problem and can result due to electrolyte imbalance, cavernous sinus thrombosis, associated meningitis, shigella encephalopathy and hypoglycemia in undernourished children. Treatment includes i.v. diazepam and i.v. glucose and correction of electrolyte imbalance. Additional treatment interventions include antimicrobial drugs including antibiotics, antimotility drugs, absorbents, nutritional and micro and macro nutrient supplementation.
12357076	To decipher the genes associated with drought stress response and to identify novel genes in rice, we utilized 1540 high-quality expressed sequence tags (ESTs) for functional annotation and mapping to rice genomic sequences. These ESTs were generated earlier by 3'-end single-pass sequencing of 2000 cDNA clones from normalized cDNA libraries constructed form drought-stressed seedlings of an indica rice. A rice UniGene set of 1025 transcripts was constructed from this collection through the BLASTN algorithm. Putative functions of 559 nonredundant ESTs were identified by BLAST similarity search against public databases. Putative functions were assigned at a stringency E value of 10(-6) in BLASTN and BLASTX algorithms. To understand the gene structure and function further, we have utilized the publicly available finished and unfinished rice BAC/PAC (BAC, bacterial artificial chromosome; PAC, P1 artificial chromosome) sequences for similarity search using the BLASTN algorithm. Further, 603 nonredundant ESTs have been mapped to BAC/PAC clones. BAC clones were assigned by a homology of above 95% identity along 90% of EST sequence length in the aligned region. In all, 700 ESTs showed rice EST hits in GenBank. Of the 325 novel ESTs, 128 were localized to BAC clones. In addition, 127 ESTs with identified putative functions but with no homology in IRGSP (International Rice Genome Sequencing Program) BAC/PAC sequences were mapped to the Chinese WGS (whole genome shotgun contigs) draft sequence of the rice genome. Functional annotation uncovered about a hundred candidate ESTs associated with abiotic stress in rice and Arabidopsis that were previously reported based on microarray analysis and other studies. This study is a major effort in identifying genes associated with drought stress response and will serve as a resource to rice geneticists and molecular biologists.
12357597
12357603
12357605
12357631
12358073	As part of an evaluation study of the impacts of the Indonesian integrated pest management (IPM) Farmer Field Schools on farmers' health, focus group discussions were conducted with rice farmers who grew shallots in rotation. Farmers who had previously participated in IPM rice field schools and who were at the time participating in IPM shallot field schools were compared with farmers who had had no experience with IPM methods. The study found that farmers' knowledge concerning the health dangers of pesticides is not sufficient to change their behaviors. Their overriding concern is crop damage that leads to economic loss, not health. IPM field-school training offers farmers a viable alternative by concretely demonstrating the health, agricultural, environmental, and economic advantages of eliminating unnecessary pesticide use. If public health professionals aim to change behaviors through interventions, they must employ appropriate methods, meet the community's priorities and values, and offer feasible alternatives.
12358250	Bloating is an important but poorly understood symptom in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) that is often aggravated by bran. The aim of our study was to determine whether IBS patients with bloating responded to bran differently from healthy controls. A total of 12 patients with IBS (according to Rome I criteria), all with moderate to severe bloating, and 12 healthy controls participated in a two way, double blind, randomized, cross-over trial of bran versus placebo (crushed biscuits) 15 g b.i.d. An average daily pain index and bloating score were derived from daily symptom diaries. On day 14, gastric emptying, small bowel transit, percent remaining in ascending colon, and geometric center of a meal marker at 24 h were calculated from scintigraphic images obtained after ingesting a Tc99m-labeled rice pudding meal with 15 g of either placebo or coarse bran. Results are given as median (range). Bran significantly increased the pain index and bloating (p < 0.02) in IBS patients but not controls. The most striking finding was that the small bowel transit time of the meal without bran was markedly faster in IBS patients than in controls, being 203 min (range 109-313) versus 367 min (219-543), p < 0.001. Although in controls bran accelerated small bowel transit time to 262 min (180-380), p = 0.03, and significantly reduced % remaining in the ascending colon from 22% (0-46) to 3% (0-25), p = 0.03, this was not seen in the IBS patients. Bran accelerated whole gut transit as assessed by geometric center at 24 h in both IBS patients and controls. Bran accelerates small bowel transit and ascending colon clearance without causing symptoms in controls. Small bowel transit is rapid in IBS patients with bloating and, unlike in healthy control subjects, cannot be further accelerated by bran, which nevertheless aggravates symptoms of pain and bloating. We speculate that bran-induced bloating may originate in the colon rather than the small bowel.
12358477	The kinetics of inhibition of rice bran lipase (RBL) by phenylboronic acid (PBA) was studied to elucidate the nature of inhibition and the effect of the inhibitor on the structure-function of RBL. The effectiveness of an inhibitor is normally expressed by the constant K(i), which is calculated from the Lineweaver-Burk plot and found to be 1.7 mM at pH 7.4. The kinetics of inhibition by PBA was competitive, indicating the presence of serine in the active site of the enzyme. The loss of activity of RBL was concentration dependent on the inhibitor (PBA), and the inactivation followed a pseudo-first-order kinetics. Fluorescence emission measurements indicated a decrease in the fluorescence emission intensity and a red shift in the emission maximum as the inhibitor concentration was increased. The inhibition of the enzyme by PBA was also confirmed by thermal denaturation measurements, which indicated a shift in the thermal denaturation temperature of the enzyme toward lower temperatures. The far-UV-CD data suggest that there were no significant changes in the conformation of the enzyme as a result of binding of PBA. These results indicate that PBA is a potential inhibitor of RBL and binds to the enzyme in bringing about inhibition without any structural alterations.
12358499	Epidemiological studies have shown that consumption of whole grains and grain-based products is associated with reduced risk of chronic diseases. The health benefits of whole grains are attributed in part to their unique phytochemical composition. However, the phytochemical contents in grains have been commonly underestimated in the literature, because bound phytochemicals were not included. This study was designed to investigate the complete phytochemical profiles in free, soluble conjugated, and insoluble bound forms, as well as their antioxidant activities in uncooked whole grains. Corn had the highest total phenolic content (15.55 +/- 0.60 micromol of gallic acid equiv/g of grain) of the grains tested, followed by wheat (7.99 +/- 0.39 micromol of gallic acid equiv/g of grain), oats (6.53 +/- 0.19 micromol of gallic acid equiv/g of grain), and rice (5.56 +/- 0.17 micromol of gallic acid equiv/g of grain). The major portion of phenolics in grains existed in the bound form (85% in corn, 75% in oats and wheat, and 62% in rice), although free phenolics were frequently reported in the literature. Ferulic acid was the major phenolic compound in grains tested, with free, soluble-conjugated, and bound ferulic acids present in the ratio 0.1:1:100. Corn had the highest total antioxidant activity (181.42 +/- 0.86 micromol of vitamin C equiv/g of grain), followed by wheat (76.70 +/- 1.38 micromol of vitamin C equiv/g of grain), oats (74.67 +/- 1.49 micromol of vitamin C equiv/g of grain), and rice (55.77 +/- 1.62 micromol of vitamin C equiv/g of grain). Bound phytochemicals were the major contributors to the total antioxidant activity: 90% in wheat, 87% in corn, 71% in rice, and 58% in oats. Bound phytochemicals could survive stomach and intestinal digestion to reach the colon. This may partly explain the mechanism of grain consumption in the prevention of colon cancer, other digestive cancers, breast cancer, and prostate cancer, which is supported by epidemiological studies.
12358618	We conducted a serological survey of 632 rodents from the northeast region of Thailand in order to assess the presence of Hantaan-like viruses that may be a risk to the human population. Rodents were collected from rice fields, houses and domestic gardens in five northeastern provinces and tested for IgG reacting sera to Hantaan antigen using enzyme-linked immunoassays. The overall prevalence of Hantavirus infection in rodents was 2.1% (13/632). Species that tested positive included Bandicota indica (4.3% positive within species), Rattus exulans (2.1%), R. losea (1.6%) and R. rattus (0.9%). Species such as R. exulans and R. losea are candidate hosts of unidentified Hantaan-like viruses in Thailand.
12359077	The proteins extracted from the leaf sheaths of rice seedlings were separated by 2-D PAGE, and analyzed by Edman sequencing and mass spectrometry, followed by database searching. Image analysis revealed 352 protein spots on 2-D PAGE after staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. The amino acid sequences of 44 of 84 proteins were determined; for 31 of these proteins, a clear function could be assigned, whereas for 12 proteins, no function could be assigned. Forty proteins did not yield amino acid sequence information, because they were N-terminally blocked, or the obtained sequences were too short and/or did not give unambiguous results. Fifty-nine proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry; all of these proteins were identified by matching to the protein database. The amino acid sequences of 19 of 27 proteins analyzed by mass spectrometry were similar to the results of Edman sequencing. These results suggest that 2-D PAGE combined with Edman sequencing and mass spectrometry analysis can be effectively used to identify plant proteins.
12359911	To investigate the mechanisms of phytochrome action in vivo, we have overexpressed rice phytochrome in transgenic tobacco plants. A full-length rice phytochrome cDNA was fused to the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and transferred to tobacco. The progeny of some of the transgenic plants contain large amounts of rice phytochrome mRNA in green leaves. Extracts prepared from overexpressing plants contain twofold to fivefold more spectrophotometrically detectable phytochrome than extracts from control plants. Species-specific, anti-phytochrome monoclonal antibodies were used in immunoblots to discriminate between rice and tobacco phytochrome apoproteins in fractions eluted from a DEAE-Sepharose column. Red minus far-red difference spectra of the partially purified rice phytochrome from the transgenic plants indicate that the rice phytochrome assembles with chromophore and is photoreversible. Analysis of the circadian pattern of Cab mRNA levels in transgenic plants versus controls demonstrates that the overproduction of rice phytochrome extends the duration of the free-running rhythm of Cab gene expression. The rice phytochrome is, therefore, biologically active in the transgenic tobacco plant, which establishes a system for in vivo functional analysis of phytochrome.
1236205
12362332	Three-week old plants of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv CT9993 and cv IR62266) developed gradual water stress over 23 days of transpiration without watering, during which period the mid-day leaf water potential declined to approximately -2.4 MPa, compared with approximately -1.0 MPa in well-watered controls. More than 1000 protein spots that were detected in leaf extracts by proteomic analysis showed reproducible abundance within replications. Of these proteins, 42 spots showed a significant change in abundance under stress, with 27 of them exhibiting a different response pattern in the two cultivars. However, only one protein (chloroplast Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase) changed significantly in opposite directions in the two cultivars in response to drought. The most common difference was for proteins to be up-regulated by drought in CT9993 and unaffected in IR62266; or down-regulated by drought in IR62266 and unaffected in CT9993. By 10 days after rewatering, all proteins had returned completely or largely to the abundance of the well-watered control. Mass spectrometry helped to identify 16 of the drought-responsive proteins, including an actin depolymerizing factor, which was one of three proteins detectable under stress in both cultivars but undetectable in well-watered plants or in plants 10 days after rewatering. The most abundant protein up-regulated by drought in CT9993 and IR62266 was identified only after cloning of the corresponding cDNA. It was found to be an S-like RNase homologue but it lacked the two active site histidines required for RNase activity. Four novel drought-responsive mechanisms were revealed by this work: up-regulation of S-like RNase homologue, actin depolymerizing factor and rubisco activase, and down-regulation of isoflavone reductase-like protein.
12362334	We describe the initial characterization of the wheat amyloplast proteome, consisting of the identification and classification of 171 proteins. Whole amyloplasts and purified amyloplast membranes were prepared from wheat (Triticum aestivum). Protein extracts were examined by one-dimensional and two-dimensional electrophoresis, followed by high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry of separated proteins. Tandem mass spectrometry data of individual peptides was then searched by SEQUEST, using a database containing known protein sequences from both wheat and other homologous cereal crops. Using this approach we identified 108 proteins from whole amyloplasts and 63 proteins from purified amyloplast membranes. The majority of protein identifications were derived from protein sequences from cereal crops other than wheat, for which relatively little gene sequence data is available. The highest percentage of protein identifications obtained from any individual species was 46% of the total number of proteins identified, using sequence data found in our proprietary rice (Oryza sativa) genome database.
12362347	We tested whether proteome reference maps established for one species can be used for cross-species protein identification by comparing two-dimensional protein gel patterns and protein identification data of two closely related bacterial strains and four plant species. First, proteome profiles of two strains of the fully sequenced bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti were compared as an example of close relatedness, high reproducibility and sequence availability. Secondly, the proteome profiles of three legumes (Medicago truncatula, Melilotus alba and Trifolium subterraneum), and the nonlegume rice (Oryza sativa) were analysed to test cross-species similarities. In general, we found stronger similarities in gel patterns of the arrayed proteins between the two bacterial strains and between the plant species than could be expected from the sequence similarities. However, protein identity could not be concluded from their gel position, not even when comparing strains of the same species. Surprisingly, in the bacterial strains peptide mass fingerprinting was more reliable for species-specific protein identification than N-terminal sequencing. While peptide masses were found to be unreliable for cross-species protein identification, we present useful criteria to determine confident matching against species-specific expressed sequence tag databases. In conclusion, we present evidence that cautions the use of proteome reference maps and peptide mass fingerprinting for cross-species protein identification.
12362775	The isotope dilution technique involving deuterated retinol has been developed to quantitatively estimate total body reserves of vitamin A in humans. The technique provided good estimates in comparison to hepatic vitamin A concentrations in Bangladeshi surgical patients. Kinetic studies in the United States, Bangladesh, and Guatemala indicated the mean equilibration time of 17 to 20 days irrespective of the size of hepatic reserves. Due to the controversy surrounding the efficacy of a carotene-rich diet on improvement of vitamin A status, the isotope dilution technique was proposed to pursue this research question further (IAEA's coordinated research program). In the Philippines, schoolchildren with low serum retinol concentrations showed significant improvement in total body vitamin A stores following intake of carotene-rich foods (orange fruits and vegetables), using a three-day deuterated-retinol-dilution procedure. When Chinese kindergarten children were fed green and yellow vegetables during the winter, their total body vitamin A stores were sustained as compared to a steady decline of vitamin A stores in the control children. Likewise, daily consumption of purified beta-carotene or diet rich in provitamin A carotenoids were shown to prevent a loss in total body vitamin A stores among Thai lactating women during the rice-planting season. These studies demonstrate potentials of the isotope dilution technique to evaluate the impact of provitamin A carotenoid intervention programs.
12362781	To improve the iron status of infants an effort was made to increase the iron content of complementary foods by adding 12.5 mg of elemental iron to the meal in the form of micro-encapsulated ferrous fumarate coated with a lipid. The contents of the packet were sprinkled directly on to infant foods. Relative absorption of iron from this supplement was determined in a prospective randomized study with 39 infants (mean age 33.6 +/- 5.2 weeks) with initial hemoglobin values greater than 100 g/L. They were fed two complementary foods (rice-based and wheat-based) in which the supplement labeled with stable isotopes of iron 57Fe and 58Fe was incorporated. The erythrocyte iron incorporation was measured in the blood by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrophotometry. The incorporation of iron was significantly higher 11.9% p < .001 and 13.3% p < .001 and no difference was observed with the type of cereal in complementary foods. The use of ferrous fumarate sprinkles has proved to be efficacious in increasing the available iron intake of the infants.
12362796	Iron absorption from rice fortified with different iron fortificants, e.g., ferrous sulfate (FeS04), sodium iron EDTA (NaFeEDTA), ferrous fumarate (FeFum), and ferrous bisglycinate (FeBis) was determined using an in vitro enzymatic digestion method simulating conditions in the small intestine and an in vivo method using radioisotope techniques. The in vitro method showed that the percentage of dialyzable iron from NaFeEDTA (15.7 +/- 0.9) and FeS04-fortified rice (13.2 +/- 1.5) was significantly greater than that from FeFum (6.4 +/- 0.6; p < .05) and FeBis fortified rice (3.3 +/- 0.8; p < .05). Iron absorption in vivo was investigated from FeS04 and NaFeEDTA fortified rice with and without fish and vegetables in 10 borderline iron-deficient subjects. Iron absorption (mg) from NaFeEDTA fortified rice (0.44 +/- 0.11) was significantly greater than from FeS04-fortified rice (0.22 +/- 0.05; p < .05) and the unfortified rice (0.17 +/- 0.02; p < .05). Iron absorption (mg) from a meal consisting of iron-fortified rice, fish, and vegetables was significantly greater from NaFeEDTA (0.88 +/- 0.24) and FeS04 (0.67 +/- 0.10) -fortified rice than from the unfortified rice (0.41 +/- 0.08; p < .05). This study concluded that both NaFeEDTA and FeSO4 are effective iron fortificants for rice. The binder used in the study may have a significant role in the release of iron from iron-fortified rice for absorption. Further studies on the use of other binders to maximize iron release and minimize iron loss during cooking should be conducted to improve iron absorption from the fortified rice/rice-fish-vegetable meals. Results from this study can be used as a basis for food iron fortification programs as well as in the establishment of recommended dietary allowances for iron among Filipinos.
12364383	It has been 7 years since serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) and microarray hybridization techniques were simultaneously introduced to allow the screening of thousands of expressed genes. Both techniques have stood up to the test of time as evidenced by their widespread use, and both have been used for studying cardiovascular diseases. SAGE has been used more extensively to study cancer cells, but it has also been used to examine gene expression in systems as divergent as rice seedlings, yeast, and Caenorhabditis elegans. In this review, a summary of the advances in SAGE technology and its unique attributes and potential applications to the cardiovascular system will be presented.
12365496	Rice hull ash (RHA) contains over 60% silica and can be an economically viable raw material for the production of silica based products. A previously published method for producing silica xerogel involved dissolving RHA silica with alkali solution to form sodium silicate solution and subsequently forming silica aquagel by adding hydrochloric acid to lower the pH from 11.8 to 7.0, followed by washing and drying aquagel to form xerogel. The silica xerogel had over 4% sodium as a contaminant. An improved method to produce silica xerogel with lower sodium is described in this study. The improved method involved production of silica aquagel by adding silicate solution to pH 1.5 hydrochloric, citric, or oxalic acid solutions until the pH 4.0 was reached. The aquagel was washed and dried to form silica xerogel. For comparison silica xerogels were also produced at pH 7.0 by the published method. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was used to determine the elemental content of silica xerogels. The silica, sodium, carbon and oxygen content of silica xerogels varied depending on the pH and the type of acid used for the production of these xerogels. Silica xerogels produced by the improved method using citric and oxalic acid had sodium content of 0.52% and 0.22%, respectively.
12365517	1. The study aimed to assess the effect of a commercially available microbial phytase on phytate phosphorus and total phosphorus content at the terminal ileum as well as true ileal amino acid digestibility. 2. Five diets, each containing a different plant-based feedstuff, were supplemented with microbial phytase and fed, along with a non-supplemented corresponding diet, to 28-d-old broiler chickens, Chromic oxide was used as an indigestible marker. Ileal contents were collected and analysed, along with the diets, for total phosphorus, phytate phosphorus and amino acids. 3. Endogenous phosphorus determined at the terminal ileum was 272 +/- 108 mg/kg food dry matter (mean +/- SE). Endogenous ileal amino acid flows ranged from 58 +/- 10 mg/kg food dry matter for methionine to 568 +/- 47 mg/kg food dry matter for glutamic acid. 4. Supplementation with microbial phytase resulted in a significantly greater phytate P disappearance from the terminal ileum for rice bran (17% units), but not for soyabean meal, maize, wheat or rapeseed meal. Similarly total phosphorus digestibility was significantly (P < 0.05) higher when microbial phytase was added to the rice-bran-based diet but not for any of the other feedstuffs. 5. Amino acid digestibility was significantly greater in the presence of microbial phytase for all the amino acids examined in wheat, for several of the amino acids each in maize and rapeseed meal and for one amino acid in rice bran and soyabean meal. The average increase in amino acid digestibility for those amino acids affected, was 13, 6, 10, 7 and 12% units for wheat, maize, rapeseed meal, rice bran and soyabean meal, respectively. 6. It appears that microbial phytase improves phosphorus digestibility and amino acid digestibility for certain plant-based feedstuffs.
12368189	Intraoperative lymphatic mapping to identify the sentinel lymph node (SLN) has significantly changed the management of regional lymph node basin of patients with various types of solid tumors such as melanoma and breast cancer. The procedure has improved the diagnosis of micrometastasis in the regional tumor-draining lymph nodes by providing a focused histopathological assessment of select lymph nodes most likely to harbor occult disease. Blue dye and/or radioisotopes are efficient mapping agents but the lack of accurate methods to quantify their presence and the potential for dissolution and decay, respectively, throughout time limit their role as reliable markers for identifying a sentinel node from additional secondary lymph nodes that may be either blue and/or radioactive to some degree. A consistently durable marker is needed that can be introduced during surgery and successfully quantitated among tumor-draining lymph nodes to permit a more accurate assessment of hierarchical organization. This may be of particular importance in retrospective analysis of archival tissues as there are no inherent markers to denote the SLN from successive echelon nodes. A procedure of molecular lymphatic mapping (MLM) was developed in a rat model to label the SLN preoperatively with rice gene DNA containing plasmid or linear rice DNA fragment (rDNA). The MLM efficiency was demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detection of the molecular marker in both frozen and paraffin-embedded SLN; 1.25 micro g of rDNA injected with blue dye could be reproducibly detected by PCR. The MLM procedure was validated in a rat breast tumor model with lymph node metastasis. The procedure was successful in permanently labeling and identifying by PCR both frozen and paraffin-embedded SLN. MLM in conjunction with a conventional mapping agent can be used as a valuable asset for molecular assessment of the SLN and retrospective analysis of paraffin-embedded specimens.
12368247	Although comparative genetic mapping studies show extensive genome conservation among grasses, recent data provide many exceptions to gene collinearity at the DNA sequence level. Rice, sorghum, and maize are closely related grass species, once sharing a common ancestor. Because they diverged at different times during evolution, they provide an excellent model to investigate sequence divergence. We isolated, sequenced, and compared orthologous regions from two rice subspecies, sorghum, and maize to investigate the nature of their sequence differences. This study represents the most extensive sequence comparison among grasses, including the largest contiguous genomic sequences from sorghum (425 kb) and maize (435 kb) to date. Our results reveal a mosaic organization of the orthologous regions, with conserved sequences interspersed with nonconserved sequences. Gene amplification, gene movement, and retrotransposition account for the majority of the nonconserved sequences. Our analysis also shows that gene amplification is frequently linked with gene movement. Analyzing an additional 2.9 Mb of genomic sequence from rice not only corroborates our observations, but also suggests that a significant portion of grass genomes may consist of paralogous sequences derived from gene amplification. We propose that sequence divergence started from hotspots along chromosomes and expanded by accumulating small-scale genomic changes during evolution.
12368454	NifA, the transcriptional activator of nitrogenase (nif) genes, has up to now been described to be regulated in its activity via the sensor NifL only for members of the gamma-subgroup of the PROTEOBACTERIA: This paper reports a functionally similar NifL-like protein outside this group in Azoarcus sp. strain BH72, a diazotrophic grass endophyte belonging to the beta-subgroup of the PROTEOBACTERIA: Its structural genes for nitrogenase (nifHDK) are regulated in response to combined nitrogen and O(2) and expressed endophytically inside rice roots. In order to characterize nitrogen-regulatory genes, an Azoarcus sp. BH72 genomic library was used to select cosmids that complemented a nifA mutation in Azotobacter vinelandii. Sequence analysis of the 3.4 kb genomic region complementing nifA showed two ORFs with sequence identities of 44% to NifL and 61% to NifA of Azotobacter vinelandii. According to Northern blot and reverse transcriptase PCR analysis, the nifLA transcript was more abundant at low combined nitrogen and O(2) levels, results which were corroborated by GUS (beta-glucuronidase) assays using a transcriptional nifL::gusA fusion. N(2) fixation was abolished in a NifLA(-) and a NifA(-) mutant, wild-type fixation being restored by nifLA in trans. The NifLA(-) mutant also failed to activate nifH::gus expression, indicating that NifA is the obligate transcriptional activator for nifHDK. A nifL mutant was diazotrophic and did not show repression of nifH::gusA by ammonium or O(2), suggesting that NifL of Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 has a similar role in inactivating NifA in response to O(2) and combined nitrogen as NifL in bacteria of the gamma-PROTEOBACTERIA:
12369615	The AP2/EREBP transcription factors play important roles in plant development and in the responses of plants to biotic and abiotic stresses. All members of the EREBP subfamily described to date are from dicotyledonous plants. In this paper, we describe the cloning and characterization of a rice gene, OsEBP-89, encoding a protein 326 amino acids long with a typical EREBP domain; this is the first report of an EREBP transcription factor in a monocotyledonous plant. Except for the EREBP domain, the OsEBP-89 protein does not have substantial sequence similarities to other members of the subfamily. The DNA-binding activity of the EREBP domain was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility-shift assays. An activation domain rich in acidic amino acids was identified by using a yeast one-hybrid system. Two putative nuclear-localization signals were also identified. The results of northern blot hybridization experiments showed that the transcript of the OsEBP-89 gene accumulates primarily in immature seeds, roots, and leaves (low levels). More detailed information about the pattern of OsEBP-89 gene expression was obtained by histochemical studies of transgenic rice plants carrying an OsEBP-89 5'/GUS reporter gene. The reporter gene was expressed in the endosperm starting at 7 days after pollination and in the intercalary meristem of plants. Expression of OsEBP-89 was induced in roots of rice seedlings by treatment with ACC, NaCl, or 2,4-D. Two cis-acting elements, an endosperm motif and a primary PERE, are present upstream of the OsEBP-89 coding region and may be involved in regulating its expression. Collectively, these results suggest that the OsEBP-89 gene is a new member of the EREBP subfamily and may be involved in ethylene-dependent seed maturation and shoot development of rice.
12369618	We screened for auxin-induced genes with an expression correlated to the auxin-induced growth response from rice coleoptiles by fluorescent differential display. A rice homologue of the auxin response factor (ARF) family of transcriptional regulators, OsARF1, was identified. An OsARF1:GFP fusion protein was localized to the nucleus. Steady-state levels of OsARF1 mRNA correlated positively with auxin-dependent differential growth: gravitropic stimulation enhanced the amount of OsARF1 transcript in the lower, faster-growing flank accompanied by a decrease in the upper flank of gravitropically stimulated rice coleoptiles. Exogenous auxin up-regulated the steady-state level of OsARF1 mRNA within 15-30 min. This up-regulation is independent of de novo protein synthesis. Thus, OsARF1 is the first ARF that classifies as an early auxin-responsive gene. The observed auxin-dependent regulation comprises a new level of regulation in auxin-induced gene expression and is discussed as a possible feedback mechanism in plant growth control.
12369621	A family of three cDNAs, designated TaSUT1A, 1B and 1D, encoding sucrose transporter (SUT) proteins was isolated from a hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum) endosperm library. The cDNA sequences are 96% identical but are distinguishable from one another by virtue of a size polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR). The predicted amino acid sequences are 98% identical and are highly similar to the sucrose transporters from rice, maize and barley. A gene for TaSUT1 was isolated from genomic libraries of Aegilops tauschii (the donor of the D genome of wheat) and the coding sequence found to be identical to that of TaSUT1D cDNA. There is only one copy of each TaSUT1 gene in hexaploid wheat and it is located on chromosome 4. Genomic Southern analysis and PCR analysis across the 3' polymorphic region of hexaploid, tetraploid and progenitor diploid wheat DNAs established that the TaSUT1A gene was present in the putative A-genome progenitor, T. monococcum, and that the TaSUT1B gene was present in the putative B-genome progenitor, T. searsii. All three TaSUT1 genes are expressed at high levels in filling grain, showing a good correlation with the developmental time course of growth. This reinforces the view that in cereals a major role of SUT1 is in the post-phloem sugar transport pathway associated with seed filling.
12369627	A gene (rps2) coding for ribosomal protein S2 (RPS2) is present in the mitochondrial (mt) genome of several monocot plants, but absent from the mtDNA of dicots. Confirming that in dicot plants the corresponding gene has been transferred to the nucleus, a corresponding Arabidopsis thaliana nuclear gene was identified that codes for mitochondrial RPS2. As several yeast and mammalian genes coding for mt ribosomal proteins, the Arabidopsis RPS2 apparently has no N-terminal targeting sequence. In the maize mt genome, two rps2 genes were identified and both are transcribed, although at different levels. As in wheat and rice, the maize genes code for proteins with long C-terminal extensions, as compared to their bacterial counterparts. These extensions are not conserved in sequence. Using specific antibodies against one of the maize proteins we found that a large protein precursor is indeed synthesized, but it is apparently processed to give the mature RPS2 protein which is associated with the mitochondrial ribosome.
12371112	The effects of selenium on the protection system in the leaves of paddy rice were studied under the stress of herbicide mefenacet. The results showed that selenium could cause increase of the height and root length, enhanced the contents of protein, glutathione(GSH) and the activities of antioxidant enzyme, leading to decreased level of activated oxygen and malondialdehyde(MDA), slowering the autoxidation rate. All these could alleviate the harmful effect of mefenacet on paddy rice. The paired t-test results showed that the effect of selenium on the response of the active oxygen scavenging system were significant.
12371474	The purpose of this study was to determine whether the conversion of carfentrazone-chloropropionic acid to carfentrazone-propionic acid in sunlit rice paddies is attributed to photoreduction. Model solutions (Na2S with quinoids) irradiated by laboratory ultraviolet light dechlorinated carfentrazone-chloropropionic acid (1.6-28.4% yield of carfentrazone-propionic acid), though Na2S alone was also reactive. Minor conversion (0-2.5%) occurred in the dark, along with dehydrochlorination to carfentrazone-cinnamic acid. Carfentrazone-propionic acid formed proportionally to the Na2S concentration (0-50.7% at 1.3-91 mM), whereas acidic pH inhibited reactivity. Photoreduction with Na2S was verified with 2-chloropropionic acid conversion to propionic acid (53.5%) and by minor 4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid dechlorination. Dissolved Na2S was the primary photoreductant, whereas reduced quinones degraded carfentrazone-chloropropionic acid by an alternate reaction. A survey of ambient rice field conditions indicates that carfentrazone-chloropropionic acid photoreduction is not directly attributed to H2S/HS- in this environment, though reduced quinones may be involved to an unknown extent.
12372141	Long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons constitute a major fraction of the genomes of higher plants. For example, retrotransposons comprise more than 50% of the maize genome and more than 90% of the wheat genome. LTR retrotransposons are believed to have contributed significantly to the evolution of genome structure and function. The genome sequencing of selected experimental and agriculturally important species is providing an unprecedented opportunity to view the patterns of variation existing among the entire complement of retrotransposons in complete genomes. Using a new data-mining program, LTR_STRUC, (LTR retrotransposon structure program), we have mined the GenBank rice (Oryza sativa) database as well as the more extensive (259 Mb) Monsanto rice dataset for LTR retrotransposons. Almost two-thirds (37) of the 59 families identified consist of copia-like elements, but gypsy-like elements outnumber copia-like elements by a ratio of approximately 2:1. At least 17% of the rice genome consists of LTR retrotransposons. In addition to the ubiquitous gypsy- and copia-like classes of LTR retrotransposons, the rice genome contains at least two novel families of unusually small, non-coding (non-autonomous) LTR retrotransposons. Each of the major clades of rice LTR retrotransposons is more closely related to elements present in other species than to the other clades of rice elements, suggesting that horizontal transfer may have occurred over the evolutionary history of rice LTR retrotransposons. Like LTR retrotransposons in other species with relatively small genomes, many rice LTR retrotransposons are relatively young, indicating a high rate of turnover.
12375864	In order to elucidate the long-term fate of the sulfonylurea herbicide cinosulfuron, the 14C-labelled chemical was applied to a clay loam soil, encased in two lysimeters, 22 days after rice (Oryza sativa L.) transplanting, and rice plants were grown for four consecutive years. Throughout the experimental period, leaching through soil profiles, absorption and translocation by rice plants, and distribution of 14C by downward movement in the soil layers were clarified. The total volume of leachates collected through the lysimeter soil over the four years amounted to 168 and 146 L in lysimeters I and II, respectively. The leachates contained 2.43% and 2.99% of the originally applied 14C-radioactivity, corresponding to an average concentration of 0.29 and 0.41 microg/L as the cinosulfuron equivalent in lysimeters I and II, respectively. The total 14C-radioactivity translocated to rice plants in the third and fourth year was 0.69% and 0.60% (lysimeter I), and 1.02% and 0.84% (lysimeter II) of the 14C applied, respectively. Larger amounts of cinosulfuron equivalents (0.54-0.75%) remained in the straw in the fourth year than in any other parts. The 14C-radioactivities distributed down to a depth of 70 cm after four years were 56.71-57.52% of the 14C applied, indicating the continuous downward movement and degradation of cinosulfuron in soil. The non-extractable residues were more than 88% of the soil radioactivity and some 45-48% of them was incorporated into the humin fraction. The 14C-radioactivity partitioned into the aqueous phase was nearly 30% of the extractable 14C, suggesting strongly that cinosulfuron was degraded into some polar products during the experimental period. It was found out in a supplemental investigation that flooding and constant higher temperature enhanced mineralization of [14C]cinosulfuron to 14CO2 in soil, indicating the possibility of chemical hydrolysis and microbial degradation of the compound in the flooded lysimeter soil.
12376644	Plants take up large amounts of K(+) from the soil solution and distribute it to the cells of all organs, where it fulfills important physiological functions. Transport of K(+) from the soil solution to its final destination is mediated by channels and transporters. To better understand K(+) movements in plants, we intended to characterize the function of the large KT-HAK-KUP family of transporters in rice (Oryza sativa cv Nipponbare). By searching in databases and cDNA cloning, we have identified 17 genes (OsHAK1-17) encoding transporters of this family and obtained evidence of the existence of other two genes. Phylogenetic analysis of the encoded transporters reveals a great diversity among them, and three distant transporters, OsHAK1, OsHAK7, and OsHAK10, were expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and bacterial mutants to determine their functions. The three transporters mediate K(+) influxes or effluxes, depending on the conditions of the experiment. A comparative kinetic analysis of HAK-mediated K(+) influx in yeast and in roots of K(+)-starved rice seedlings demonstrated the involvement of HAK transporters in root K(+) uptake. We discuss that all HAK transporters may mediate K(+) transport, but probably not only in the plasma membrane. Transient expression of the OsHAK10-green fluorescent protein fusion protein in living onion epidermal cells targeted this protein to the tonoplast.
12378237	A number of morphological, physiological and phenological traits are known to improve the performance of rice challenged by drought. Root morphological traits and stress-induced response form important components of drought tolerance. Enhancing grain yield remains the principal objective of most breeding programs. Interaction between primary traits poses a formidable challenge while dealing with grain yield under stress. The evaluation of root morphology at three different growth stages and grain yield along with related characteristics under contrasting moisture regimes was made using nine backcrosses along with their parent and standard checks. The backcrosses invoved transgressant double haploid lines derived from IR64 and Azucena with IR64. Marked genotypic differences were observed for all root morphology as well as grain yield related characteristics across the sampling dates as revealed by individual and combined ANOVA. Among the nine backcrosses studied in this experiment, the BC1F2 population of P124 x IR64 were evaluated for forwarding based on their performance with respect to maximum root length and grain yield under both well-watered and low-moisture stress conditions. Sixty-nine plants - ten percent of the backcross population - were selectively genotyped using RAPD primers. Under well-watered conditions two RAPD markers showed strong linkage to QTLs for maximum root length evaluated under ww conditions. Two other markers could explain the considerable amount of variation in MRL under LMS. One of the markers identified under low-moisture stress conditions was also able to explain variability in maximum root length in the mean environment.
12378259	During the last decade microsatellites or SSRs (simple sequence repeats) have been proven to be the markers of choice in plant genetics research and for breeding purposes because of their hypervariability and ease of detection. However, development of these markers is expensive, labour intensive and time consuming, in particular, if they are being developed from genomic libraries. In the context of large-scale sequencing and genomics programmes in various cereal species at different laboratories, a large set of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) is being generated, which can be used to search for microsatellites. Keeping in view the importance of such type of SSRs, available ESTs of some cereal species like barley, maize, oats, rice, rye and wheat were investigated for a study of abundance, frequency and distribution of various types of microsatellites. SSRs were present in about 7% to 10% of the total ESTs in the investigated cereal genomes. On the basis of surveying EST sequences amounting to 75.2 Mb in barley, 54.7 Mb in maize, 43.9 Mb in rice, 3.7 Mb in rye, 41.6 Mb in sorghum and 37.5 Mb in wheat, the frequency of SSRs was 1/7.5 kb in barley, 1/7.5 kb in maize, 1/6.2 kb in wheat, 1/5.5 kb in rye and sorghum and 1/3.9 kb in rice. The overall average SSR frequency for these species is 1/6.0 kb. Trimeric repeats are the most abundant (54% to 78%) class of microsatellites followed by dimeric repeats (17% to 40%). Among the trimeric repeats the motifs CCG are the most common in all the cases ranging from 32% in wheat to 49% in sorghum. When all these SSRs were analysed for assessing their potential to develop new markers, unique primer pairs could be designed for 30% to 70% of the total non-redundant microsatellites which are up to 3% of total ESTs in the studied species.
12379789	Rate of grain filling in terms of dry mass accumulated per panicle per day was measured in field-grown rice in the dry season in the Philippines and compared to rates of light-saturated photosynthesis per unit leaf area (P(max)) measured at 350 micro l l(-1) CO(2) for 21 d after flowering. Five new plant type (tropical japonica) varieties (NPT) and one indica variety (IR72) were used and these gave some variation in rates and patterns of grain filling. A rapid grain-filling phase (RGFP) occurred approximately 10 d after flowering in most varieties. There was no consistent relationship in any variety between the rate of grain-filling and P(max) and chlorophyll content, both of which remained mostly unchanged throughout grain filling. Significant declines in the amount of total leaf protein and ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase (Rubisco) occurred, but these did not occur at the same time as the RGFP in all varieties. A decrease in the ratio of chlorophyll a/b preceded these changes and a transient rise in chlorophyll content was also observed in four varieties at this time. There was no significant change in leaf non-structural carbohydrate content during or following the RGFP. It is concluded that the decline in Rubisco and protein content in NPT was not reflected in photosynthetic activity. Hence in these field experiments Rubisco accumulated to a level in excess of photosynthetic requirements, serving as a store of nitrogen for grain filling.
12381126	The carbon isotope ratios (delta(13)C) of 160 beers from around the world ranged from -27.3 to -14.9 per thousand, primarily due to variation in the percentage of C(3) or C(4) plant carbon in the final product. Thirty-one percent of beers had a carbon signature of C(3) plants (barley, rice, etc.), whereas the remaining 69% contained some C(3)-C(4) mixture (mean of mixtures, 39 +/- 11% C(4) carbon). Use of C(4) carbon (corn, cane sugar, etc.) was not confined to beers from any particular region (Pacific Rim, Mexico, Brazil, Europe, Canada, and the United States). However, the delta(13)C of European beers indicated mostly C(3) plant carbon. In contrast, U.S. and Canadian beers contained either only C(3) or C(3)-C(4) mixtures; Brazilian, Mexican, and Pacific Rim beers were mostly C(3)-C(4) mixtures. Among different lagers, U.S.-style lagers generally contained more C(4) carbon than did imported pilsners. Among different ales, those brewed by large high-production breweries contained significant proportions of C(4) carbon, while C(4) carbon was not detected in microbrewery or home-brew ales. Furthermore, inexpensive beers generally contained more C(4) carbon than expensive beers.
12381129	An investigation of the acetylation of rice straw with acetic anhydride at 100 and 120 degrees C for 1-4 h with four tertiary amine catalysts (pyridine, 4-dimethylaminopyridine, N-methylpyrrolidine, and N-methylpyrrolidinone) or without catalyst in a solvent-free system was undertaken, and the extent of acetylation was measured by weight percent gain, which increased with the extent of reaction time and temperature and the amounts of catalyst used. 4-Dimethylaminopyridine was found to be the most effective catalyst of those studied. At a concentration of 7% of the catalyst in acetic anhydride, a weight percent gain of 15.4% was realized, compared with 11.2% for the noncatalyst reaction, after 0.5 h of exposure to the system at 120 degrees C. Characterization of acetylated straw was performed by FT-IR, CP MAS (13)C NMR, and thermal studies. Interestingly, the acetylated straw is significantly hydrophobic and does not get wet with water, thereby offering potential for the better utilization of cheap waste materials as natural sorbents in oil cleanup.
12381140	Dihydroferulic acid (DFA) and dihydrosinapic acid (DSA) were isolated from Kurosu (unpolished rice vinegar) as the major constituents responsible for Kurosu's radical scavenging activity. The levels of antioxidative activity of DFA and DSA in DPPH radical scavenging were higher than those of their respective structurally related compounds, ferulic acid and sinapic acid. The concentrations of DFA and DSA were low in common rice vinegar (polished rice vinegar), suggesting that Kurosu is more advantageous than rice vinegars as an antioxidative food item. As the concentrations of DFA and DSA were low in unpolished rice, too, these acids are thought to be produced in Kurosu through the process of the fermentation from ferulic acid and sinapic acid, respectively.
12381160	Cystatins are protein inhibitors of cysteine proteinases of the papain family, and those of animal origin have long been studied from medical and physiological aspects. In the meantime, oryzacystatin cloned from rice seeds in 1987 was recognized as the first well-defined cystatin of plant origin. Cloning studies followed to disclose various plant cytstatins including those of corn and soybean origin, their similarities to and differences from animal cystatins being analyzed in detail. Plant seed cystatins are now understood as factors controlling germination by inhibition of endogenous cysteine proteinases. They can also recognize insect midgut proteinases as exogenous target enzymes to control. This paper discusses chemical and phytophysiological relationships between cystatins and their targets.
1238127	The saccharification of agricultural woody wastes was studied using a commercial enzyme preparation, Cellulase onozuka, derived from Trichoderma viride or the solid culture extracts of the fungus. With the intention of producing sugar at low cost, a simple procedure of enzymatic saccharification of rice straw, bagasse, and sawdust was studied. Delignifying methods of these wastes were investigated using dilute sodium hydroxide solution and dilute peracetic acid. Rice straw and bagasse were effectively delignified by boiling in a 1% sodium hydroxide solution for 3 hr or by autoclaving at 120 degrees C in a 1% sodium hydroxide solution for 1 hr. The sawdust from a broad leaved tree (Machilus thunbergii) was delignified by autoclaving at 120 degrees C in a 1% sodium hydroxide solution for 1 hr and by subsequent boiling in diluted 1/5 peracetic acid for 1 hr. This type of sawdust was also delignified by boiling in 1/5 peracetic acid for 1 hr and by subsequent autoclaving at 120 degrees C in a 1% sodium hydroxide solution for 1 hr. The sawdust from a coniferous tree (Cryptomeria japonica) was delignified by boiling in 1/5 peracetic acid for 1 hr and by subsequent autoclaving at 120 degrees C in a 1% sodium hydroxide solution for 1 hr; however, the successive treatment by autoclaving with alkali solution and subsequent boiling with diluted peracetic acid failed to bring about the desired effect. The saccharification of delignified rice straw, bagasse, and sawdust was examined using Cellulase onozuka, wheat bran or rice straw solid culture at various substrate concentrations, resulting in the formation of 5 to 10% sugar solutions after incubation at pH 5.0, 45 degrees C for 48 hr. The optimum substrate concentration existed at around 10%. Reuse of cellulase solution and resaccharification of residual sawdust were considered to be inadequate.
12381745	This study examined, in nine old men (82 +/- 4 yr), whether there is an association between the magnitude of change in motor unit discharge rate and the amount of twitch potentiation after a conditioning contraction (CC). The evoked twitch force and motor unit discharge rate during isometric ramp-and-hold contractions (10-18 s) of the triceps brachii muscle at 10, 20, and 30% of the maximal voluntary contraction were determined before and 10 s, 2 min, 6 min, and 11 min after a 5-s CC at 75% maximal voluntary contraction. After the CC, there was a potentiation of twitch force (approximately twofold), and the discharge rate of the 47 sampled motor units declined (P < 0.05) an average of 1 Hz 10 s after the CC, compared with the control condition. The CC had no effect on the variability (coefficient of variation) of both force and discharge rate, as well as the electromyographic activity recorded over the triceps brachii and biceps brachii muscles. In contrast to our earlier study of young men (Klein CS, Ivanova TD, Rice CL, and Garland SJ, Neurosci Lett 316: 153-156, 2001), the magnitude of the reduction in discharge rate after the CC was not associated (r = 0.06) with the amount of twitch potentiation. These findings suggest an age-related alteration in the neural strategy for adjusting motor output to a muscle after a CC.
12384290	To identify nitrate-induced genes in rice roots, a nitrate-induced root subtracted library was constructed using the suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) method and a split-root experiment. Based on forward and reverse screening, 37 known genes and 55 novel genes were identified to be up-regulated in nitrate-supplied side roots. The known genes are involved in nitrogen (N) uptake and assimilation, sugar transport and organic acid metabolism, signal transduction, protein synthesis and degradation, plant resistance, hormone metabolism and cell division. Most of these genes were stronger up-regulated in nitrate-supplied than in nitrate-deficient side roots, which suggests that nitrate may regulate expression of these genes. Expression pattern analysis also revealed that a fast cycle of assimilated N metabolites occurred between root and shoot. Transcriptions of some nitrate-induced genes were also up-regulated in nitrate-deficient side roots, which indicates that nitrate and/or in coordinating with N metabolites from shoots, regulate the transcription of many genes. The enhancement of carbon (C) source partition, the expressions of genes for signal transduction and transcription regulation, auxin transport and ethylene synthesis, and cyclin-dependent kinases may be responsible for the stimulated lateral root growth by nitrate.
12385208	The results showed that the activities of Agrinine decarboxylase(ADC), Ornithine decarboxylase(ODC) and s-Adenosylmethionine decarboxylase(SAMDC) were increased by 165.74%, 104.60% and 89.60% in the leaves of Shan You63(Sy63) and by 59.91%, 41.30% and 23.68% in the leaves of Nancheum(NC). Only ADC and ODC activities were increase by 115.93%, 14.45%, but SAMDC activity was decreased by 33.01% in the leaves of IR65600-85 respectively in the exposure to enhanced UV-B radiation for 7-14 days. In late treatment time course(21-28 d), the activities of ADC and ODC were increased by 89.72% and 3.71% in the leaves of Sy63 exposed to UV-B radiation for 21-28 days and by 73.95% and 27.38% in the leaves of NC. The activity of ADC was also increased by 94.41%, but ODC activity was decreased by 13.57% in the leaves of IR65600-85 compared with the controls. As far as SAMDC was concerned, the enzymic activities in the leaves of Sy63, NC and IR65600-85 were reduced by 40.06%, 19.20% and 38.21% respectively in the exposure to enhanced UV-B radiation for 21-28 days. The reverse was true in the case of Polyamine Oxidase (PAO), this in turn resulted in increased contents of Polyamine(PA) especially putrescine(Put). In addition, the result also indicated that the contents of IAA and GA1/3 were significantly reduced in all rice cultivars used for this experiments with enhanced UV-B radiation treatments for 7-28 days, in which the contents of IAA and GA1/3 were decreased by 58.92% and 45.48% in the leaves of Sy63, by 43.31% and 56.20% in the leaves of NC, and by 38.60% and 47.33% in the leaves of IR65600-85. The contents of ZRs in the leaves of the three cultivars concerned were lower in earlier treatment time courses (7-14 d), but much higher in late courses(21-28 d) compared with the their counterparts. With regard to the endogenous hormone of ABA, the content was significantly increased by 14.4%, 99.6% and 56.7% respectively in the three rice cultivars concerned exposed to enhanced UV-B radiation for 7-28 days, thereby led to decreased values of IAA/ABA, GA1/3/ABA and ZRs/ABA, consequently suppressed growth and development of rice.
12385240	2600 Anthers from T0 modified cry1 Ac-transgenic rice lines of Minghui 81, an elite restoring line of commercial CMS indica hybrid rice, were cultured on SK3 media. 83 green plantlets were recovered, 43 double haploid (DH) and 40 haploid among them. Results of PCR analyzes indicated that 55 plants of 83 were harbored the cry1Ac gene, and the ratio of cry1Ac-positive against cry1Ac-negative was 2:1 (55/28). 36 putative transgenic DH plants were further confirmed by Southern blot. ELISA detection showed that Cry1Ac level in different transgenic rice plants of the same cry1Ac-DH clone was almost equal and the highest one amount to 0.25% of the total soluble protein. Pest insect-resistant bioassay at field trials demonstrated that some of the homozygous cry1Ac-transgenic rice plants not only showed high-level resistance against striped stem borer (Chilo suppressalis) but also retained elite agronomy characters. These results demonstrated that rice anther culture has a great value in rice molecular breeding.
12385245	Chilling-sensitive rice varieties acquire chilling tolerance when their roots are exposed to water stress for short time. Caffeine-sensitive calcium signal was involved in this procedure. By using total RNA differential display, a chilling induced cDNA(ICT: induction of chilling treatment) was isolated from roots of chilling-sensitive rice variety. It was determined that it is a novel cDNA by homology searching. The transcript level of ict mRNA is up-regulated under chilling stress, it is decreased to low level when the samples were transferred to standard culture conditions. Pre-treated with mannitol for two hours is beneficial to inducing ICT level of expression. This chilling induction was inhibited by caffeine, suggesting that it may play a putative role in signal transduction of caffeine-sensitive calcium.
12387499	Several peptides that could bind specifically to the outer coat protein encoded by the S10 gene of Rice black streaked virus (RBSDV) were isolated from a phage-display random 12-mer peptide library. The sequence analysis showed that the amino acid motif (K)K**(*)P, the asterisk denoting any amino acid, might be the core sequence by which the peptides bind to the target protein. The peptide 1 that had a high affinity to RBSDV outer coat protein was synthesized by a chemical method and its fusion protein with glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was produced in an Escherichia coli expression system. The dot and Western blot analyses indicated that RBSDV could be detected with a high sensitivity in crude extracts of diseased plant leaves using a purified GST fusion protein. The circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy revealed that the synthesized binding peptide but not a nonbinding peptide could bring about a marked change in the conformation of outer coat RBSDV protein. Since the protein functions only when it has correct conformation, the peptides binding specifically to it could possibly disturb the function of the virus outer coat protein and might be used to block the transmission pathway of the virus. Summing up, as these peptides showed a high specificity and sensitivity and diagnostic potential for RBSDV, they may represent the basis of a novel strategy for development of resistance to RBSDV.
12391714	The primary care physician is in a position to advise patients on the efficacy of alternative and complementary therapies as they relate to cardiovascular diseases. Anti-oxidant vitamin supplementation has not been shown to be efficacious in decreasing cardiovascular events. N-3 fatty acids appear to be beneficial in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events but their use in primary prevention is not clear. Adoption of vegetable-based diets, including whole grains, can be recommended to decrease cardiovascular events, lower cholesterol and help lower blood pressure. For patients with hypercholesterolemia, cholestin, a red-yeast rice supplement, has been shown to be effective. Garlic supplements may have some mild cholesterol-lowering effect, but this effect is not significant enough to recommend clinically. Herbal therapies with hawthorn and ubiquinone (Q10) are of possible benefit in congestive heart failure. An integrated program of rigorous diet, exercise and stress reduction in motivated patients with cardiovascular disease may have value as an alternative to cardiovascular medications and surgical interventions.
12392547	A computer program has been evaluated for subsite map calculations of depolymerases. The program runs in windows and uses the experimentally determined bond cleavage frequencies (BCFs) for determination of the number of subsites, the position of the catalytic site and for calculation of subsite binding energies. The apparent free energy values were optimized by minimization of the differences of the measured and calculated BCF data. The program called suma (SUbsite Mapping of alpha-Amylases) is freely available for research and educational purposes via the Internet (E-mail: gyemant@tigris.klte.hu). The advantages of this program are demonstrated through alpha-amylases of different origin, e.g. porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase (PPA) studied in our laboratory, in addition to barley and rice alpha-amylases published in the literature. Results confirm the popular 'five subsite model' for PPA with three glycone and two aglycone binding sites. Calculations for barley alpha-amylase justify the '6 + 2 + (1) model' prediction. The binding area of barley alpha-amylase is composed of six glycone, two aglycone binding sites followed by a barrier subsite at the reducing end of the binding site. Calculations for rice alpha-amylase represent an entirely new map with a '(1) + 2 + 5 model', where '(1)' is a barrier subsite at the nonreducing end of the binding site and there are two glycone and five aglycone binding sites. The rice model may be reminiscent of the action of the bacterial maltogenic amylase, that is, suggesting an exo-mechanism for this enzyme.
12395189	OsMADS13 is a rice MADS-box gene that is specifically expressed in developing ovules. The amino acid sequence of OsMADS13 shows 74% similarity to those of FLORAL BINDING PROTEIN 7 (FBP7) and FBP11, the products of two MADS-box genes that are necessary and sufficient to determine ovule identity in Petunia. To assess whether OsMADS13, the putative rice ortholog of FBP7 and FBP11, has an equivalent function, several analyses were performed. Ectopic expression of FBP7 and FBP11 in Petunia results in ectopic ovule formation on sepals and petals. Here we show that ectopic expression of OsMADS13 in rice and Arabidopsis does not result in the formation of such structures. Furthermore, ectopic expression of FBP7 and FBP11 in Arabidopsis also fails to induce ectopic ovule formation. To determine whether protein-protein interactions involving putative class D MADS-box proteins have been conserved, yeast two-hybrid assays were performed. These experiments resulted in the identification of three putative partners of OsMADS13, all of them encoded by AGL2-like genes. Interestingly the Petunia FBP7 protein also interacts with AGL2-like proteins. The evolutionary conservation of the MADS-box protein partners of these ovule-specific factors was confirmed by exchange experiments which showed that the protein partners of OsMADS13 interact with FBP7 and vice versa.
12395199	Rice blast disease, caused by the fungal pathogen Pyricularia grisea Sacc., is one of the most devastating crop diseases worldwide. Previous studies have shown that the dominant blast resistance gene Pi-2(t) confers resistance to a broad spectrum of pathogenic strains. Using a population of 292 recombinant inbred lines combined with bioinformatic analysis, we mapped Pi-2(t) between the SSR (simple-sequence repeat) marker SSR140 and the RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) marker JSH12, 0.9 cM from both SSR140 and JSH12. A physical map consisting of six overlapping BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) clones was anchored to the region containing the Pi-2(t) locus. By analyzing recombination events in this region, the Pi-2(t) locus was localized to a DNA fragment of 118 kb in length. The detailed genetic and physical maps of the Pi-2(t) locus will facilitate both molecular isolation of the gene and marker-assisted transfer of the gene in breeding programs.
12395200	The rice lesion mimic mutant spl11 was previously found to confer broad-spectrum disease resistance to both Magnaporthe grisea and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. To better understand the molecular basis underlying cell death and disease resistance in rice, a map-based cloning strategy has been employed to isolate Spl11. Five Spl11-linked RAPD markers were developed and four of them were mapped to rice chromosome 12. A high-resolution genetic map was developed using a segregating population consisting of 1138 lesion mimic individuals. Recombination suppression was observed in the vicinity of Spl11. Three molecular markers tightly linked to Spl11 were identified and used to screen a BAC library. A contig spanning the Spl11 locus was constructed and physical mapping delimited Spl11 to a 160-kb DNA segment within a single BAC clone. These results provide the essential information for the final isolation of this important gene in the rice defense pathway.
12395585	The sustainability of wildlife resources in Africa is threatened by poaching for trophies and meat as well as changes in land use. In order to motivate local people for sustainable wildlife management, efforts to transfer decision-making power as well as benefits from central to local level have been made in several countries. Such efforts have not yet been seen in Kilombero Game Controlled Area, which is the area covered by the present study. The paper documents the importance of wildlife to local people, explores local people's perceptions on wildlife management and identifies constraints to sustainable wildlife management. A total of 177 household interviews in 5 villages and 129 interviews of pupils in schools have been conducted. The majority of pupils reported that their latest meal of meat was from a wild animal, and the most common species was buffalo. Apart from availability of cheap wildlife meat, advantages from living close to wildlife include the use of various parts of animals for, e.g. medical and ritual uses, and various plant products from wildlife habitats. Disadvantages include damages to crops, predation on livestock, and injuries to humans. The estimated loss of yield due to raiding by wildlife amounted to 21.9 and 47.8% of the harvest of rice and maize, respectively. Traditional wildlife management in Kilombero includes few rules to avoid resource depletion, because depletion has traditionally not been a problem due to low hunting technology and low human population. Government management includes strict rules, with hunting quotas as the main instrument, but the government has failed to enforce the rules. Ongoing discussions on new approaches to wildlife management like co-management and community-based management were largely unknown to the villagers in the area. Both poaching and agricultural expansion threaten the sustainability of Kilombero Game Controlled Area. It is suggested that transfers of decision-making power and benefits to local people is necessary in order to achieve sustainable management.
12395883	We evaluated the performance of a 22-item food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) administered in 1980-81 to 3,005 members of the Adult Health Study cohort, part of the Life Span Study. The questionnaire was compared with the records of a 24-hour dietary survey that was performed in 1984-85. From the dietary records, food and nutrient intakes were estimated. The association between the two measures of dietary intake was assessed using Mantel-Haenszel chi-square test and the Spearman's rank correlation coefficient. The frequency of food intake as measured by the FFQ was linearly associated with food intake as measured by the 24-hour diary, with the exception of dry fish. The highest correlations were observed for beverages, including coffee (0.51), milk (0.32) and black tea (0.26). Foods such as fruit (0.27), confectionery (0.23), rice (0.34) and bread (0.28) were also moderately correlated. These results show that, with the exception of dry fish, the FFQ is moderately correlated with the 24-hour diary and can be used to assess diet intake in this cohort.
12396529	Villagers residing in areas with rice farms are exposed to smoke from burning of agricultural waste that may affect respiratory health. To assess respiratory effects of this smoke-induced air pollution, a cross-sectional study has been conducted in three randomly selected villages of Isfahan rural areas. A physician-administered health questionnaire was completed for 433 male and 561 female villagers aged 1-80 years, followed by physical examinations and spirometry in symptomatic cases, before and after a rice burning episode in October 2000. Total particulate and respirable particulate maters (PM 10 was doubled during burning episode. Prevalence rates for respiratory symptoms before smoke were: recent asthma attacks (7.7%), using asthma medications (3%), sleep disturbed by dyspnea and cough (7.4%), exercise-induced cough (13.3%), which increased to 9.5, 7.1, 9.3 and 17%, respectively. Mean initial values (as percent of prediction) for; FEV1, FEV1/FVC, PEFR, and FEF25-75 were: 85.9 +/- 22.7, 81.7 +/- 8, 86.2 +/- 26.2 and 60 +/- 26.4, respectively. The mentioned values decreased to to 83.2 +/- 19.5, 76.5 +/- 10.3, 85.5 +/- 21.1 and 54.3 +/- 26.4, respectively. All of the clinical and spirometric changes were statistically significant. Study findings suggest increased respiratory morbidity associated with rice burning episodes among all people living in the area.
12399401	Glutinous rice is a major type of cultivated rice with long-standing cultural importance in Asia. A mutation in an intron 1 splice donor site of the Waxy gene is responsible for the change in endosperm starch leading to the glutinous phenotype. Here we examine an allele genealogy of the Waxy locus to trace the evolutionary and geographical origins of this phenotype. On the basis of 105 glutinous and nonglutinous landraces from across Asia, we find evidence that the splice donor mutation has a single evolutionary origin and that it probably arose in Southeast Asia. Nucleotide diversity measures indicate that the origin of glutinous rice is associated with reduced genetic variation characteristic of selection at the Waxy locus; comparison with an unlinked locus, RGRC2, confirms that this pattern is specific to Waxy. In addition, we find that many nonglutinous varieties in Northeast Asia also carry the splice donor site mutation, suggesting that partial suppression of this mutation may have played an important role in the development of Northeast Asian nonglutinous rice. This study demonstrates the utility of phylogeographic approaches for understanding trait diversification in crops, and it contributes to growing evidence on the importance of modifier loci in the evolution of domestication traits.
12400447	Phytoalexins are low-molecular-weight chemicals that immune systems of plants produce and accumulate in response to infections, especially those of fungal origin. Although their content is not high in plants, yet they have shown unique fungicidal activity and played an important role in the defence system of plants. In searching for novel environmentally benign fungicides with high activity, the structures of flavanone derivatives, one of the most important phytoalexins groups, have been modified via bioisosteric substitution and a series of 2-heteroaryl-4-chromanones were designed and synthesized. They showed good fungicidal activities against rice blast disease, Pyricularia grisea (Sacc). Their IC50 values were tested in vitro and the relationship between structure and fungicidal activity was analyzed quantitatively using a Hansch-Fujita approach. The results showed that hydrophobicity was very important for fungicidal activity and there is apparently an optimum hydrophobic property for the molecules at a log Pow value of about 2.7. In addition, the results indicated that electronic effects played an important role in binding with the receptor and that the C=O group was probably a electron-accepting site. The quantitative structure-retention correlative equation of the title compounds was also established.
12400699	The chiral requirement on the alpha-methylbenzyl moiety of 2,4-diamino-6-chloro-s-triazine for sufficient inhibition of root growth was similar towards both rice and barnyard millet. With the monoalkylamino series, the most suitable configuration was markedly changed by the substituent on the other amino moiety. However, for the dialkylamino series, the (S)-enantiomer was an active inhibitor. Clear species selectivity between rice and barnyard millet was observed in the series for the (R)-enantiomers, providing high herbicidal activity toward Echinochloa plants and safety toward rice. The enantioselectivity against barnyard millet increased with increasing inhibitory activity of the active enantiomers, following Pfeiffer's rule. R-EtNH (3) controlled the growth of barnyardgrass with leaf-burning (LB) under paddy conditions, and S-EtNH (4) and S-Et2N (20) controlled the growth without LB. The RS-EtNH derivative is an interesting inhibitor controlling the growth of barnyardgrass from the just-germinated stage (by the (R)-enantiomer) to early-middle growth stage (by the (S)-enantiomer).
12404153	Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a severe and often fatal rodent-borne zoonosis. Maporal (MAP) virus is a newly discovered hantavirus that originally was isolated from an arboreal rice rat captured in central Venezuela. The results of this study indicate that MAP virus in the Syrian golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) can cause a disease that is clinically and pathologically remarkably similar to HPS. The similarities include the time course of clinical disease, presence of virus-specific IgG at the onset of clinical disease, subacute pneumonitis, rapid onset of diffuse alveolar edema in the absence of necrosis, hepatic-portal triaditis, mononuclear-cellular infiltrate in lung and liver, widespread distribution of hantaviral antigen in endothelial cells of the microvasculature of lung and other tissues, and variable lethality. These similarities suggest that the MAP virus-hamster system is a useful model for studies of the pathogenesis of HPS and for the evaluation of potential therapeutic agents.
12405309	The International Committee of the Red Cross investigated an outbreak of beri-beri in a prison in West Africa. Twenty-five prisoners out of a total of 1020 died over a period of 11 weeks--exceeding the crude mortality rate of 1/10,000/day, a threshold for serious concern. Two hundred and eleven prisoners had clinical signs of beri-beri. An immediate response to treatment with thiamine was seen and no further deaths occurred. The triad of a positive squatting test, oedema and a diet consisting exclusively of white rice should lead to the diagnosis of beri-beri. The disease is more common than generally assumed, also in Africa and especially in prisons.
12405559	The subject area of this review provides extraordinary challenges and opportunities. The challenges relate to the fact that the integration of various fields such as microbiology, biochemistry, plant physiology, eukaryotic as well as bacterial genetics, and applied plant sciences are required to assess the disposition of rice, an alien host, for establishing such a unique phenomenon as biological nitrogen fixation. The opportunities signify that, if successful, the breakthrough will have a significant impact on the global economy and will help improve the environment. This review highlights the literature related to the area of legume-rhizobia interactions, particularly those aspects whose understanding is of particular interest in the perspective of rice. This review also discusses the progress achieved so far in this area of rice research and the possibility of built-in nitrogen fixation in rice in the future. However, it is to be borne in mind that such research does not ensure any success at this point. It provides a unique opportunity to broaden our knowledge and understanding about many aspects of plant growth regulation in general.
12406210	Cpmk2, encoding a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase from the ascomycete Claviceps purpurea, is an orthologue of SLT2 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the first isolated from a biotrophic, non-appressorium-forming pathogen. Deletion mutants obtained by a gene replacement approach show impaired vegetative properties (no conidiation) and a significantly reduced virulence, although they retain a limited ability to colonize the host tissue. Increased sensitivity to protoplasting enzymes indicates that the cell wall structure of the mutants may be altered. As the phenotypes of these mutants are similar to those observed in strains of the rice pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea, that have been deprived of their MAP kinase gene mps1, the ability of cpmk2 to complement the defects of delta mps1 was investigated. Interestingly, the C. purpurea gene, under the control of its own promoter, was able to complement the M. grisea mutant phenotype: transformants were able to sporulate and form infection hyphae on onion epidermis and were fully pathogenic on barley leaves. This indicates that, despite the differences in infection strategies, which include host and organ specificity, mode of penetration and colonization of host tissue, CPMK2/MPS1 defines a second MAP kinase cascade (after the Fus3p/PMK1 cascade) essential for fungal pathogenicity.
12407188	Heading date 3a (Hd3a) has been detected as a heading-date-related quantitative trait locus in a cross between rice cultivars Nipponbare and Kasalath. A previous study revealed that the Kasalath allele of Hd3a promotes heading under short-day (SD) conditions. High-resolution linkage mapping located the Hd3a locus in a approximately 20-kb genomic region. In this region, we found a candidate gene that shows high similarity to the FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) gene, which promotes flowering in Arabidopsis: Introduction of the gene caused an early-heading phenotype in rice. The transcript levels of Hd3a were increased under SD conditions. The rice Heading date 1 (Hd1) gene, a homolog of CONSTANS (CO), has been shown to promote heading under SD conditions. By expression analysis, we showed that the amount of Hd3a mRNA is up-regulated by Hd1 under SD conditions, suggesting that Hd3a promotes heading under the control of Hd1. These results indicate that Hd3a encodes a protein closely related to Arabidopsis FT and that the function and regulatory relationship with Hd1 and CO, respectively, of Hd3a and FT are conserved between rice (an SD plant) and Arabidopsis (a long-day plant).
12407193	Plasma membrane (PM) H(+)-ATPase and H(+) transport activity were detected in PM fractions prepared from Zostera marina (a seagrass), Vallisneria gigantea (a freshwater grass) and Oryza sativa (rice, a terrestrial plant). The properties of Z. marina PM H(+)-ATPase, specifically, the optimal pH for ATPase activity and the result of trypsin treatment, were similar to those of authentic PM H(+)-ATPases in higher plants. In V. gigantea and O. sativa PM fractions, vanadate-sensitive (P-type) ATPase activities were inhibited by the addition of NaCl. In contrast, activity in the Z. marina PM fraction was not inhibited. The nitrate-sensitive (V-type) and azide-sensitive (F-type) ATPase activities in the Z. marina crude microsomal fraction and the cytoplasmic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activity, however, were inhibited by NaCl, indicating that not all enzyme activities in Z. marina are insensitive to salt. Although the ratio of Na(+) to K(+) (Na(+)/K(+)) in seawater is about 30, Na(+)/K(+) in the Z. marina cells was about 1.0. The salt-tolerant ATPase activity in the plasma membrane must play an important role in maintaining a low Na(+) concentration in the seagrass cells.
12410560	The anti-stress and anti-fatigue effects of a hot water extract of fermented rice bran (FRB) were investigated with Saccharomyces cerevisae IFO 2346 on rats or mice. Oral administration (1 g/kg/day) of a hot water extract of FRB inhibited major changes in weight of the adrenal, thymus, spleen and thyroid, showing the anti-stress effect. A hot water extract of FRB also inhibited the increase of GPT and LDH activity, cholesterol and serum glucose levels. Administration (1 g/kg/day) for 2 weeks significantly prolonged the swimming time, resulting in an increase of the anti-fatigue effect. From these results, it can be considered that FRB has an anti-stress and anti-fatigue effect.
12410817	Laser capture microdissection (LCM) is a powerful system which allows the isolation of selectively targeted cells from a tissue section for the analysis of gene-expression profiles of individual cells. The technique has been successfully used for the isolation of specific mammalian cells, mainly cancer cells. However, LCM has never been reported to be applied to the gene expression analysis of plant cells. We used a modified LCM system and successfully applied it to target and isolate phloem cells of rice leaf tissue whose morphology is apparently different from the surrounding cells. Total RNA was extracted from microdissected (approximately 150) phloem cells and the isolated RNA was used for the construction of a cDNA library following the T7 RNA polymerase amplification. Sequence analysis of 413 randomly chosen clones from the library revealed that there was a high level of redundancy in the population and the clones could be subclassified into 124 different groups that contained related sequences. Approximately 37% of both the redundant population and the non-redundant subgroups had novel components while approximately 63% were either homologues to the known genes reported to be localized in phloem of different plant species, or were homologues to other known genes. In situ hybridization revealed that putative amino acid permease, one of the non-redundant clones, was specifically expressed in the phloem. The results proved the effectiveness of construction of a specialized cDNA library from the specific plant cells.
12410822	Transposon insertions in a novel 3.798 kb open reading frame (ORF) of the rice pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) cause virulence deficiency and altered colony/lawn morphology. This ORF encodes a protein, XadA, of 1,265 amino acids that exhibits significant similarity to non-fimbrial adhesins of animal pathogenic bacteria such as Yersinia YadA and Moraxella UspA1. An interesting feature is that the YadA similarity region is repeated six times within the XadA sequence and encompasses almost the entire length of the protein. Anti-XadA antibodies identified a 110 kDa outer membrane protein that was sensitive to protease treatment of whole cells. XadA expression is induced in minimal medium. Homology modelling suggests that XadA adopts a beta-helix conformation-like pertactin, a non-fimbrial adhesin of Bordetella pertussis. This work is the first characterization of a non-fimbrial adhesin-like molecule in a plant pathogenic bacterium. It extends our knowledge about the repertoire of homologous virulence factors that are deployed by animal and plant pathogenic bacteria to include functions potentially involved in adhesion.
1241162	In a study of infant feeding practices in 95 infants aged three months and six months in the rural, predominantly Malay district of Kubang Pasu, which is recently undergoing rapid economic development consequent on the introduction of improved agricultural techniques in rice farming, it was found that approximately 75% of infants in both age groups were wholly or partially breast fed, modified powered milk being the milk food of most of the others. Semisolids were introduced early in the form of commercial prepacked cereals. It is suggested that medical officers of health recognising local socioeconomic and cultural changes that might affect health behavior can initiate simple studies of this type to identify local needs in health education. In circumstances such as this where a still popular beneficial traditional practice like breast feeding might be at risk of losing popularity in the face of socioeconomic development in the community it is suggested that the most useful educational effort regarding infant nutrition would be to preserve breast feeding.
12414311	The rice frog Rana limnocharis is widely distributed in Southeast Asia and the rest of the Asian region extending from India to Japan. In Japan, the Sakishima-island populations of this species were regarded as a distinct species based on morphological and genetic divergences. The main purposes of this study were to confirm the presence of intraspecific reproductively isolating mechanisms in the Sakishima-island populations of R. limnocharis, and to clarify molecular inter- and intraspecific relationships of R. limnocharis and an allied species, Rana cancrivora. The hybridization experiments revealed that there were no reproductively isolating mechanisms between the Sakishima-island populations and other populations of R. limnocharis. The molecular evolutionary relationships were investigated by analyzing nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial 12S and 16S rRNA genes using 12 populations of R. limnocharis from Japan and Taiwan, and two populations of R. cancrivora from Thailand and the Philippines. The phylogenetic trees constructed by the NJ method showed that the two populations of R. cancrivora were clearly separated from the 12 populations of R. limnocharis, and that the 12 populations of R. limnocharis were broadly divided into three clades; the first comprising eight populations from the main islands of Japan, the second comprising the Sakishima-island populations, and the third comprising the Okinawa-island and Taiwan populations. Interestingly, the Okinawa-island and Taiwan populations of R. limnocharis showed a close relationship that possibly reflected a secondary contact between the two populations. Based on the present crossing experiments and molecular data, it seems reasonable to regard the Sakishima-island populations as a single subspecies of R. limnocharis.
12416683	A viral disease with dwarfing symptoms is associated with severe damage of different cereal crops including rice, maize, wheat and sorghum grown in China. It is believed that the pathogenic agent of the disease on rice and sorghum is rice black streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV), however, the cause of maize dwarf disease in China is still inconclusive. In this report, dsRNA was isolated from virus particles obtained from the diseased plants of rice, maize, wheat and sorghum from two Chinese provinces. Full-length cDNAs of genome segments 9 (S9) and 10 (S 10) were obtained through a RT-PCR approach. Sequence analysis showed that the S9 sequences of Chinese isolates and Japanese RBSDV isolate were very similar to each other (89.1-89.6% identity at the nucleotide level, 92.3-92.9% and 95.8-98.6% identity at the amino acid level for ORF1 and ORF2, respectively). In addition, the S10 sequences of Chinese isolates and Japanese RBSDV were very similar to each other (93.0-95.4% identical nucleotides and 96.2-97.0% identical amino acids, respectively). However, there were lower similarities for S9 and S10 sequences between Chinese isolates and an Italian Maize Rough Dwarf Virus (MRDV) isolate. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Chinese viral isolates found to infect rice, maize, wheat and sorghum and leading to similar cereal dwarfing manifestations could be grouped to the same virus species, RBSDV.
12417907	Sequencing analysis of the 323 kb contig of rice chromosome 4 identified a gene cluster encoding 7 dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR)-like proteins within a 56 kb region. The 7 DFR-like genes were found to be arranged in a tandem array, and all of them comprised 6 exons and 5 introns. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequences demonstrated that these 7 proteins shared strong similarities with DFR and other enzymes of the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. RT-PCR revealed the expression pattern of the 7 genes was different in various rice tissues. The structural and functional features of these 7 DFR-like genes and their evolutionary implications are discussed.
12418801	Indigenously developed RWGT food mixture which contained rice flour, whey, sprouted green gram paste and tomato pulp (2:1:1:1 w/w) was autoclaved 1.5 kg/cm2, 15 min, 121 degrees C), cooled and fermented with 2% liquid culture (containing 10(6) cells/ml broth). Two types of fermentations were carried out i.e. single culture fermentation [L. casei, L. plantarum (37 degrees C, 24 hr.)] and sequential culture fermentation [S. boulardii (25 degrees C, 24 hr.) + L. casei (37 degrees C, 24 hr.)]; S. boulardii [(25 degrees C, 24 hr.) + L. plantarum (37 degrees C, 24 hr.)]. All the fermentations drastically reduced the contents of phytic acid, polyphenols and trypsin inhibitor activity while significantly improving the in vitro digestibilities of starch and protein. Sequential culture fermentations brought about higher changes as compared to single culture fermentations.
12421004	Amaranthus seeds were used at three different levels (20%, 35%, 50%) in fish diets under a semi-intensive fish culture system and their impact on the growth of common carp, Cyprinus carpio, and rohu, Labeo rohita, was studied. Growth in terms of body weight gain was maximum in fish fed on diets containing 20% Amaranthus seeds, that replaced rice bran and groundnut oil cake in the feed. Overall, the fish fed on diets containing Amaranthus seeds at different levels showed better growth than the control, because of the good-quality proteins available in Amaranthus seeds. In the two species used, L. rohita showed better growth performance than C. carpio.
12421012	A 120-day greenhouse experiment was conducted to study the effects of various fly ash concentrations (0%, 20%, 40%, 60%, 80% and 100% vol/vol) with normal field soil and Helminthosporium oryzae on the growth and yield of three cultivars (Pusa Basmati, Pant-4 and Pant-10) of rice, Oryza sativa L. Application of 20% and 40% fly ash with soil caused a significant increase in plant growth and yield of all the three cultivars. Forty percent fly ash caused a higher increase in growth and yield than did 20%. Sixty percent, 80% and 100% fly ash had an adverse effect on growth and yield of all the three cultivars, the maximum being with 100% fly ash. Inoculation of H. oryzae had an adverse effect on the growth and yield, Pant-10 suffered higher damage by H. oryzae than Pusa Basmati and Pant-4. Pant-10 also exhibited higher infected leaf area and greater disease symptoms of H. oryzae than did Pusa Basmati and Pant-4. Plants grown in 100% fly ash suffered higher reductions in growth and yield with H. oryzae than plants grown in pure soil or in 20% or 40% fly ash. In general, plant growth was best in Pusa Basmati followed by Pant-4 and Pant-10, while yield was higher in Pant-4 followed by Pant-10 and Pusa Basmati.
12421767	It is expected that one of the merits of comparative genomics lies in the transfer of structural and functional information from one genome to another. This is based on the observation that, although the number of chromosomal rearrangements that occur in genomes is extensive, different species still exhibit a certain degree of conservation regarding gene content and gene order. It is in this respect that we have developed a new software tool for the Automatic Detection of Homologous Regions (ADHoRe). ADHoRe was primarily developed to find large regions of microcolinearity, taking into account different types of microrearrangements such as tandem duplications, gene loss and translocations, and inversions. Such rearrangements often complicate the detection of colinearity, in particular when comparing more anciently diverged species. Application of ADHoRe to the complete genome of Arabidopsis and a large collection of concatenated rice BACs yields more than 20 regions showing statistically significant microcolinearity between both plant species. These regions comprise from 4 up to 11 conserved homologous gene pairs. We predict the number of homologous regions and the extent of microcolinearity to increase significantly once better annotations of the rice genome become available.
12421866	Research into agricultural productivity, especially for crops in the developing world, should include resistance to plant viruses, fungi and the parasitic weed Striga. It must also include research into the development of resistance to Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxin-expressing crops. Drought- and heat-tolerant crops, and those that can combat the problems of soil deficiencies, are required, and vaccine production in plants should be a high priority. Research into food quality should include the equivalent of "golden rice" in maize, the enhancement of the production of phytosterols and improved qualities of vegetable oils.
12422986	Although it is not happening uniformly within the country, the adoption of a modern lifestyle by Papua New Guineans is affecting their food habits and choices. More and more people consume rice, tinned fish and tinned meat. In towns and in villages with easy access to urban centres, these food items comprise an ever increasing part of the diet. These dietary changes are leading to increases in the prevalence of chronic lifestyle-related diseases such as obesity, hypertension and coronary heart disease. Although average calorie availability is similar in urban and rural sectors, at around 2600 kilocalories per person per day, the nutritional outcomes are different. This is mainly due to the higher energy density of the modern urban diet with a greater intake of fat and protein. The traditional diet is low in protein with rather high energy content from starchy root crops. Studies have shown that urban children tend to be taller and heavier than their rural counterparts and that the prevalence of overweight and obesity is higher among adults in urban than in rural areas. Finally, across all income groups and geographical regions, more women than men are chronically undernourished.
12423882	The alpha-galactosidase from rice cell suspension cultures was purified to homogeneity by different techniques including affinity chromatography using N-epsilon-aminocaproyl-alpha-D-galactopyranosylamine as the ligand. From 11 l of culture filtrate, 28.7 mg of purified enzyme was obtained with an overall yield of 51.9%. The cDNA coding for the alpha-galactosidase was cloned and sequenced. The enzyme was found to contain 417 amino acid residues composed of a 55 amino acid signal sequence and 362 amino acid mature alpha-galactosidase; the molecular weight of the mature enzyme was thus calculated to be 39,950. Seven cysteine residues were also found but no putative N-glycosylation sites were present. The observed homology between the deduced amino acid sequences of the mature enzyme and alpha-galactosidases from coffee (Coffea arabica), guar (Cyamopsis tetragonolooba), and Mortierella vinacea alpha-galactosidase II were over 73, 72, and 45%, respectively. The enzyme displayed maximum activity at 45 degrees C when p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactopyranoside was used as substrate. The rice alpha-galactosidase and Mortierella vinacea alpha-galactosidase II acted on both the terminal alpha-galactosyl residue and the side-chain alpha-galactosyl residue of the galactomanno-oligosaccharides.
12423926	A total of 164 samples of 18 degrees C ready-to-eat (RTE) food products, purchased in 1999-2000 from convenience stores and supermarkets in central Taiwan, were examined to determine the microbiological quality of these products. The 18 degrees C RTE food products, manufactured by 16 factories, were divided into groups based on the type of food and their major ingredients. Aerobic plate count, coliforms, Escherichia coli, Bacillus cereus, Staphylococcus aureus and psychrotrophic Pseudomonas spp. were evaluated. The incidence of E. coli and coliforms in these 18 degrees C RTE food products was 7.9% and 75.0%, respectively, while 49.8% and 17.9% of the samples were found to contain B. cereus and S. aureus, respectively. Among the samples tested, 1.3% of the food products contained more than 10(5) CFU g(-1) of B. cereus and 0.7% contained more than 10(5) CFU g(-1) of S. aureus. The pH values of the samples were all below 7.0, except for cold noodles, which had pH values ranging from 5.18 to 8.20. Among the five types of 18 degrees C food products tested, the highest incidence of E. coli (16%) and Pseudomonas spp. (64.0%) were detected in hand-rolled sushi in a cone shape. On the other hand, the highest incidence rate of coliforms, B. cereus, and S. aureus were found in sandwiches (88%), cold noodles (66.7%) and rice balls rolled in seaweed (25.0%), respectively. Food products made of ham contained the highest incidence of coliforms (88.0%) and E. coli (16.0%), while food products containing meat and ham as the major ingredients had the highest incidence rates of B. cereus (62.5%) and S. aureus (26.1%), respectively. For coliforms, E. coli, B. cereus and S. aureus, the percentage of 18 degrees C RTE food products exceeding the microbiological standards for RTE food accepted by Republic of China was 75.0%, 7.9%, 49.8% and 17.9%, respectively.
12424747	The association between total cadmium (Cd) intake and abnormal urinary findings was investigated in the Cd-polluted Jinzu River basin. In 1967 and 1968 the most systematic and large-scale health examinations were conducted among the entire population aged over 30 years of this region. We performed this study by targeting the subjects participating in the 1967 health survey conducted mainly in the heavily polluted area. From subjects who had eaten household rice of known Cd concentration, 1,075 inhabitants who had either resided in their current household since birth or who had moved there from a non-polluted area (group A), and 780 inhabitants who had resided in the current household since birth (group B), were selected as the target population. The total Cd intake for each person was calculated from the Cd dose ingested from rice and other foods. Logistic regression analysis was performed using the prevalence of abnormal urinary findings (proteinuria, glucosuria and proteinuria with glucosuria) as the criterion variable and the total Cd intake and age as explanatory variables. In subjects of groups A and B the odds ratios became higher as the dose of total Cd intake increased. Odds ratios in subjects of group A were statistically significant except for glucosuria of men and proteinuria of women. In subjects of group B the odds ratios were also significant for proteinuria + glucosuria of men and glucosuria of women. It was demonstrated that the greater the increase in total Cd intake, the greater the increase in abnormal urinary findings in the Jinzu River basin, and the association of the two factors was very close.
12425733	The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of increased viscosity of the intestinal digesta on proliferation of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli and the intestinal spirochaete Brachyspira pilosicoli in weaned pigs. Pigs were fed an experimental diet based on cooked white rice (R), which was supplemented with carboxymethylcellulose (CMC; 40 g/kg diet) to increase digesta viscosity. Thirty-six piglets weaned at 21 d of age were divided into six groups, three of which were fed R and three Addition of CMC increased digesta viscosity in the ileum (P=0.01), caecum (P=0.0007) and colon (P=0.0035), without increasing indices of large intestinal fermentation. Pigs fed developed a natural infection with enterotoxigenic E. coli after weaning and had more (P<0.0001) diarrhoea than pigs fed R. Subsequent experimental infection of two groups of pigs with B. pilosicoli resulted in more (P<0.0001) colonisation in pigs fed than R. At this time, all pigs fed had wetter (P<0.0001) faeces than those fed R, irrespective of whether they were infected with B. pilosicoli, but infected pigs also had an increased (P=0.025) number of days with diarrhoea post-infection irrespective of diet. In pigs fed it was not clear to what extent the increased viscosity associated with CMC, or the concurrent infection with enterotoxigenic E. coli, was responsible for the increased proliferation of B. pilosicoli. In a second experiment, five pigs that were weaned onto an R diet were transferred onto 3 weeks later. These pigs did not develop a natural infection with enterotoxigenic E. coli after the diet change, confirming the particular susceptibility of pigs to enterotoxigenic E. coli proliferation immediately post-weaning.
1242686	A study was undertaken to attempt to relate the distribution of exogenous factors to the varying incidences of esophageal cancer in the Caspian Littoral of Iran. For the study, 38 villages were chosen by random sampling in 14 regions defined by their esophageal cancer incidence and environmental characteristics. Information was obtained on the dietary, social, and cultural features of each village. In addition, an extensive 5-day study of 6 randomly selected households in each of the 38 villages was conducted. The study consisted of measured dietary intake, a historical food consumption questionnaire, and clinical examinations of adult occupants. Preliminary results show no single factor responsible for the etiology of esophageal cancer. However, there were some major dietary differences between the regions of different esophageal cancer risk. Bread was the chief staple food in high-incidence areas; rice, in low-incidence areas. In high-incidence areas, there was a low intake of vitamins A and C, riboflavin, animal protein, and fresh vegetables and fruit, but a greater consumption of sheeps and goat's milk. Analyses of food samples for aflatoxins, polycylic aromatic hydrocarbons, and nitrosamines showed low levels of these carcinogens in areas of high and low incidences. The use of tobacco and alcohol was not found to be of significance.
12427548	The voltage-dependent anion-selective channel (VDAC) is a mitochondrial outer membrane ion channel. The putative promoter of the rice vdac isoform2 (osvdac2) was isolated by screening a rice genomic library. Computer-based analyses predicted a TATA box, a putative transcription start and several transcription factor-binding sites including pollen specific elements. The promoter region was fused to the gus reporter gene and introduced into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Histochemical and cell-type localizations indicated an overall expression of this promoter with a strong expression in actively growing lateral roots and in the pollen grains. Quantitative experiments showed that the osvdac2 promoter has a strong specific activity in both root and shoot. Thus, the osvdac2 promoter could be a good alternative to viral promoters (e.g. CaMV 35S) to overexpress genes in transgenic Poaceae.
12427982	We have isolated a new recessive dwarf mutant of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Nipponbare). Under normal growth conditions, the mutant has very short leaf sheaths; has short, curled, and frizzled leaf blades; has few tillers; and is sterile. Longitudinal sections of the leaf sheaths revealed that the cell length along the longitudinal axis is reduced, which explains the short leaf sheaths. Transverse sections of the leaf blades revealed enlargement of the motor cells along the dorsal-ventral axis, which explains the curled and frizzled leaf blades. In addition, the number of crown roots was smaller and the growth of branch roots was weaker than those in the wild-type plant. Because exogenously supplied brassinolide considerably restored the normal phenotypes, we designated the mutant brassinosteroid-dependent 1 (brd1). Further, under darkness, brd1 showed constitutive photomorphogenesis. Quantitative analyses of endogenous sterols and brassinosteroids (BRs) indicated that BR-6-oxidase, a BR biosynthesis enzyme, would be defective. In fact, a 0.2-kb deletion was detected in the genomic region of OsBR6ox (a rice BR-6-oxidase gene) in the brd1 mutant. These results indicate that BRs are involved in many morphological and physiological processes in rice, including the elongation and unrolling of leaves, development of tillers, skotomorphogenesis, root differentiation, and reproductive growth, and that the defect of BR-6-oxidase caused the brd1 phenotype.
12428004	Previously, we have studied the expression and regulation of four alpha- and 14 beta-expansin genes in deepwater rice (Oryza sativa). We now report on the structure, expression, and regulation of 22 additional alpha-expansin (Os-EXP) genes, four expansin-like (Os-EXPL) genes, and one expansin-related (Os-EXPR) gene, which have recently been identified in the expressed sequence tag and genomic databases of rice. Alpha-expansins are characterized by a series of conserved Cys residues in the N-terminal half of the protein, a histidine-phenylalanine-aspartate (HFD) motif in the central region, and a series of tryptophan residues near the carboxyl terminus. Of the 22 additional alpha-expansin genes, five are expressed in internodes and leaves, three in coleoptiles, and nine in roots, with high transcript levels in the growing regions of these organs. Transcripts of five alpha-expansin genes were found in roots only. Expression of five alpha-expansin genes was induced in the internode by treatment with gibberellin (GA) and by wounding. The wound response resulted from excising stem sections or from piercing pinholes into the stem of intact plants. EXPL proteins lack the HFD motif and have two additional Cys residues in their C- and N-terminal regions. The positions of conserved tryptophan residues at the C-terminal region are different from those of alpha- and beta-expansins. Expression of the Os-EXPL3 gene is correlated with elongation and slightly induced by applied GA. However, the expression of the Os-EXPL1 and Os-EXPL2 genes showed limited correlation with cell elongation and was not induced by GA. We found no expression of the Os-EXPR1 gene in the organs examined.
12428011	In most species, the synthesis of ADP-glucose (Glc) by the enzyme ADP-Glc pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) occurs entirely within the plastids in all tissues so far examined. However, in the endosperm of many, if not all grasses, a second form of AGPase synthesizes ADP-Glc outside the plastid, presumably in the cytosol. In this paper, we show that in the endosperm of wheat (Triticum aestivum), the cytosolic form accounts for most of the AGPase activity. Using a combination of molecular and biochemical approaches to identify the cytosolic and plastidial protein components of wheat endosperm AGPase we show that the large and small subunits of the cytosolic enzyme are encoded by genes previously thought to encode plastidial subunits, and that a gene, Ta.AGP.S.1, which encodes the small subunit of the cytosolic form of AGPase, also gives rise to a second transcript by the use of an alternate first exon. This second transcript encodes an AGPase small subunit with a transit peptide. However, we could not find a plastidial small subunit protein corresponding to this transcript. The protein sequence of the purified plastidial small subunit does not match precisely to that encoded by Ta.AGP.S.1 or to the predicted sequences of any other known gene from wheat or barley (Hordeum vulgare). Instead, the protein sequence is most similar to those of the plastidial small subunits from chickpea (Cicer arietinum) and maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa) seeds. These data suggest that the gene encoding the major plastidial small subunit of AGPase in wheat endosperm has yet to be identified.
12428976	The presence of free fatty acid (FFA) is an important factor in determining rice quality for brewing. FFA formation in milled rice during storage was monitored, and a two-parameter semiempirical kinetic model giving product concentration as a function of time is proposed to describe FFA formation on milled rice during storage. The model was tested using sets of data obtained from partially milled rice samples stored at 24, 37, and 50 degrees C and fully milled rice stored at 37 degrees C and 70% relative humidity. The predicted values provide very good fits (R(2) >or= 97%) of the experimental data at all storage temperatures. A two-substrate reaction mechanism representing a two-phase process is also presented. Milled rice FFA at a given storage time varied with storage temperatures. The kinetic model and mechanisms proposed could be useful in describing and predicting FFA contents of milled rice during storage and transportation.
12430019	Despite the completion of the sequencing of the entire genome of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., the exact determination of each single gene and its function remains an open question. This is especially true for multigene families. An approach that combines analysis of genomic structure, expression data and functional genomics to ascertain the role of the members of the multidrug-resistance-related protein (MRP) gene family, a subfamily of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters from Arabidopsis is presented. We used cDNA sequencing and alignment-based re-annotation of genomic sequences to define the exact genic structure of all known AtMRP genes. Analysis of promoter regions suggested different induction conditions even for closely related genes. Expression analysis for the entire gene family confirmed these assumptions. Phylogenetic analysis and determination of segmental duplication in the regions of AtMRP genes revealed that the evolution of the extraordinarily high number of ABC transporter genes in plants cannot solely be explained by polyploidisation during the evolution of the Arabidopsis genome. Interestingly MRP genes from Oryza sativa L. (rice; OsMRP) show very similar genomic structures to those from Arabidopsis. Screening of large populations of T-DNA-mutagenised lines of A. thaliana resulted in the isolation of AtMRP insertion mutants. This work opens the way for the defined analysis of a multigene family of important membrane transporters whose broad variety of functions expands their traditional role as cellular detoxifiers.
12430657	The atmospheric methane budget is commonly defined assuming that major sources derive from the biosphere (wetlands, rice paddies, animals, termites) and that fossil, radiocarbon-free CH4 emission is due to and mediated by anthropogenic activity (natural gas production and distribution, and coal mining). However, the amount of radiocarbon-free CH4 in the atmosphere, estimated at approximately 20% of atmospheric CH4, is higher than the estimates from statistical data of CH4 emission from fossil fuel related anthropogenic sources. This work documents that significant amounts of "old" methane, produced within the Earth crust, can be released naturally into the atmosphere through gas permeable faults and fractured rocks. Major geologic emissions of methane are related to hydrocarbon production in sedimentary basins (biogenic and thermogenic methane) and, subordinately, to inorganic reactions (Fischer-Tropsch type) in geothermal systems. Geologic CH4 emissions include diffuse fluxes over wide areas, or microseepage, on the order of 10(0)-10(2) mg m(-2) day(-1), and localised flows and gas vents, on the order of 10(2) t y(-1), both on land and on the seafloor. Mud volcanoes producing flows of up to 10(3) t y(-1) represent the largest visible expression of geologic methane emission. Several studies have indicated that methanotrophic consumption in soil may be insufficient to consume all leaking geologic CH4 and positive fluxes into the atmosphere can take place in dry or seasonally cold environments. Unsaturated soils have generally been considered a major sink for atmospheric methane, and never a continuous, intermittent, or localised source to the atmosphere. Although geologic CH4 sources need to be quantified more accurately, a preliminary global estimate indicates that there are likely more than enough sources to provide the amount of methane required to account for the suspected missing source of fossil CH4.
12431458	Although there is growing evidence that endocytosis is important in hyphal tip growth, it has not previously been shown to occur during fungal spore germination. We have analysed and characterized endocytosis during the germination of living conidia of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. Conidia treated with the endocytic markers Lucifer Yellow carbohydrazide, FITC-dextran, and FM4-64 were imaged by confocal microscopy. Internalization of these fluorescent marker dyes by conidia was blocked by chemical and temperature treatments that inhibit endocytosis, and the sequential staining of organelles by the membrane-selective dye FM4-64 was consistent with dye internalization by endocytosis. FM4-64 uptake occurred within 2-3 min of conidial hydration, more than 40 min before the emergence of the germ tube. The times at which each of the three conidial cells initiated dye internalization were different as were the rates of dye uptake by each cell. Using these techniques we have demonstrated for the first time that ungerminated and germinated spores of filamentous fungi undergo endocytosis. Furthermore, internalization of FITC-dextran and Lucifer Yellow carbohydrazide by germinating conidia provides the first direct evidence for fluid-phase endocytosis in a filamentous fungus. FM4-64 was internalized by both ungerminated conidia and conidial germlings on the rice leaf suggesting that endocytosis might play a significant role in spore germination and germ tube growth during the pre-penetration phase of infection.
1243184
12432025	Using subtractive hybridization a submergence-induced gene was identified from deepwater rice, OsUsp1, that encodes a homologue of the bacterial universal stress protein family. Sequence analysis revealed that OsUSP1 is most closely related to the bacterial MJ0577-type of ATP-binding USP proteins which have been suggested to act as a molecular switch. USP protein homologues appear to be ubiquitous in plants and are encoded by gene families, but are absent in animal species. In the youngest internode of deepwater rice plants, OsUsp1 expression was very strongly induced within 1 h of submergence. Elevated transcript levels were observed in dividing cells, in expanding cells and in differentiated tissue indicating that USP1 mediates a general process. Gene induction was shown to be regulated by ethylene with a highly similar expression pattern to that observed with submergence treatment. Based on sequence information and on expression data it is hypothesized that OsUSP1 plays a role in ethylene-mediated stress adaptation in rice.
12432108	Certain pathologic conditions have classic radiologic manifestations that resemble various types of food. These "food signs" are highly memorable and easily recognizable and include findings that resemble various fruits and vegetables; meat, fish, and egg dishes; pasta, rice, grains, and bread (carbohydrates); desserts, cakes, and candy; and dishes, cutlery, condiments, and so on. It is important that radiologists recognize these classic signs, which will allow confident diagnosis on the basis of imaging findings alone or narrowing of the differential diagnosis.
12433584	Evolutionary analysis of the content of developmental regulatory pathways has been advanced by the publication of pairs of complete genome sequences from representative taxonomic groups. Annotation of the fission yeast, rice, and mouse genomes confirms that most regulatory families are shared among eukaryotes but also shows that certain gene families have restricted distributions. Theoretical advances in the past few years include development of the theory of scale-free networks, which provides a new framework in which to consider the connectivity and evolution of regulatory systems, and introduction of algorithms that use comparative data to enhance detection of transcriptional regulatory motifs.
12434216	Elemental composition of soil, herbaceous and woody plant species, and the muscle and liver tissue of two common small mammal species were determined in a wetland ecosystem contaminated with Ni and U from nuclear target processing activities at the Savannah River Site, Aiken, SC. Species studied were black willow (Salix nigra L.), rushes (Juncus effusus L.), marsh rice rat (Oryzomys palustris), and cotton rat (Sigmodon hispidus). Two mature trees were sampled around the perimeter of the former de facto settling basin, and transect lines sampling rushes and trapping small mammals were laid across the wetland area, close to a wooden spillway that previously enclosed the pond. Ni and U concentrations were elevated to contaminant levels; with a total concentration of 1,065 (+/- 54) mg kg(-1) U and 526.7 (+/-18.3) mg kg(-1) Ni within the soil. Transfer of contaminants into woody and herbaceous plant tissues was higher for Ni than for U, which appeared to remain bound to the outside of root tissues, with very little (0.03 +/- 0.001 mg kg(-1)) U detectable within the leaf tissues. This indicated a lower bioavailability of U than the cocontaminant Ni. Trees sampled from the drier margins of the pond area contained more Ni within their leaf tissues than the rushes sampled from the wetter floodplain area, with leaf tissues concentrations of Ni of approximately 75.5 (+/- 3.6) mg kg(-1) Ni. Ni concentrations were also elevated in small mammal tissues. Transfer factors of contaminants indicated that U bioavailability is negligable in this wetland ecosystem.
12434817	Since 1987, about fifty species, three hundred varieties of crops have been sent in recoverable satellites or high altitude balloon (HAB). The selected lines include a high-yield, disease-resist, and hybrid-vigorous rice line, a recovered line of Japonica rice restoring sterility of Indica rice, a new green pepper strain which grows fruits over 500 g, a disease-resist, high-quality tomato line, a big-pod rape line, a big-fruit white lotus line and a big-bulb lily. The special conditions in the outer space can induce a variety of mutations in the plants and their progeny, which provides a new way for the plant breeding.
12436254	Two Mu-like transposable elements were cloned from a rice genomic library using a partial cDNA clone that exhibits high homology to the mudrA gene of the maize element MuDR. Database searches led to the identification of six other sequences that carried highly homologous terminal inverted repeats (TIRs). All the rice elements possessed approximately 200-bp TIRs, and four were flanked by 9-bp target-site duplications (TSDs). The longer of the two cloned elements, OsMu4-2, could potentially encode a protein colinear with a MURA-like transposase, but it had stop codons in the coding region indicating that it is a pseudogene. All the other elements had large internal deletions. Direct dinucleotide repeats were found in two elements at positions flanking the deleted regions, suggesting that the deletions arose via the interrupted-gap-repair mechanism. Sequences related to empty sites of insertion were found in OsMu4-2 and one of the elements identified in the databases. These results provide evidence that the rice OsMu element was active and transposed in the past. Analysis of OsMu4-2 cDNAs revealed two types of transcripts produced by alternative splicing. Genomic Southern analysis suggested that OsMu4-2 was conserved in rice species with the A genome, but a deleted version was unique to japonica subspecies. Some wild rice species harbored paralogous copies of the OsMu element.
12436255	To determine the basis of genetic variation at microsatellite loci, eleven primer pairs, developed to amplify microsatellite markers in rice, were evaluated for their ability to amplify a PCR product and for both electromorphic and sequence-based polymorphism of the resulting products in 12 plant samples, including representatives from six different species within the genus Oryza and one genotype each from Zea (maize), Triticum (wheat) and Arabidopsis. PCR amplification was reliable in the four O. sativa samples as well as in the closely related Oryza relatives with AA genomes, while only 73% (8/11) of primers amplified in the BB/CC and CC genomes of Oryza, and 27% (3/11) amplified in the other genera. Three out of seven DNA fragments that were amplified from all genera were determined to be orthologous to their rice counterparts. A total of 115 amplicons were detected using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and these clustered into 74 distinct electromorphs. Sequencing of 108 amplicons revealed size homoplasy, exposing 13 new sequence-based variants. Allelic diversity within a species was predominantly due to changes in the number of repeats in the microsatellite region, but the frequency of insertions/deletions (indels) and base substitutions increased as the genetic distance between samples increased. This study suggests that electromorph size polymorphism is an adequate measure of genetic difference in studies involving closely-related individuals, but that when phylogenetic or evolutionary inferences are being made over longer time scales, evaluation of SSR variation at the sequence level is essential.
12436846	This paper presents the main findings of a study on health effects of environmental cadmium pollution in China, performed in 1998, i.e. approximately 25 years after the first warnings of such effects were published in Ambio. Forearm bone mineral density (BMD) and renal dysfunction were assessed in population groups exposed to cadmium via rice. Decreased BMD was found in postmenopausal women with elevated urinary cadmium (CdU) or cadmium in blood (CdB) and among men with elevated CdB. Also, clear and statistically significant dose-effect and dose-response relationships were found between CdB or CdU and renal dysfunction (increased excretion of retinol-binding protein). This is the first report of bone effects among Cd-exposed population groups in Asia outside Japan. The report is also of interest since it demonstrates that bone effects, a comparatively severe adverse health effect of Cd, in combination with renal dysfunction, still occurs in environmentally exposed population groups in Asia. Recent reports on bone effects in Cd-exposed population groups in Europe are discussed.
12437083	Human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), a cytokine with many applications in clinical medicine, was produced specifically in the seeds of transgenic tobacco plants. Two rice endosperm-specific glutelin promoters of different size and sequence, Gt1 and Gt3, were used to direct expression. Also in the Gt3 construct, the GM-CSF coding region was in fusion with the first 24 nucleotides of the mature rice glutelin sequence at its 5' end. With the Gt1 construct plants, seed extracts contained the recombinant human GM-CSF protein up to a level of 0.03% of total soluble protein. Transgenic seed extracts actively stimulated the growth of human TF-1 cells suggesting that the seed-produced GM-CSF alone and in fusion with the rice glutelin peptide was stable and biologically active. Furthermore, native tobacco seed extracts inhibited the activity of E. coli-derived GM-CSF in this cytokine-dependent cell line. The seeds of F1 generation plants retained the biological activity of human GM-CSF protein indicating that the human coding sequence was stably inherited. The feasibility of oral delivery of such stable seed-produced cytokines is discussed.
12437084	A total of 66 transgenic rice cell lines were produced by simultaneously transforming rice callus with nine different plasmids/genes. PCR analysis indicated that the co-transformation frequency of each gene was about 70%. All the cell lines carried at least three genes and 11 cell lines carried all nine genes. Thirty-two fertile transgenic plants (R0) were generated from the transgenic cell lines and seeds of 32 transgenic R1 lines and 5 R2 lines were harvested and analyzed for gene inheritance and protein expression. Progeny segregation analysis indicated that the multiple transgenes were integrated into the same locus of the rice genome, resulting in a 3:1 segregation ratio of the transgenes. Expression analysis of all nine transgenes revealed that the transgenes were expressed in all generations (R0, R1, and R2) and about half of the transgenes from each line were expressed. The expression of one transgene appears to have no effect on the expression of another transgene. Among the 66 cell lines, six lines (9.1%) expressed seven or eight transgenes out of the nine transformed genes. All together, our results showed that multiple genes could be delivered into rice cells simultaneously and cell lines expressing multiple genes could be generated. The results and procedures reported here should be useful in designing multi-plasmid transformation experiments such as those required for plant metabolic engineering.
12437305	Homologs of barley Mlo are found in syntenic positions in all three genomes of hexaploid bread wheat, Triticum aestivum, and in rice, Oryza sativa. Candidate wheat orthologs, designated TaMlo-A1, TaMlo-B1, and TaMlo-D1, encode three distinct but highly related proteins that are 88% identical to barley MLO and appear to originate from the three diploid ancestral genomes of wheat. TaMlo-B1 and the rice ortholog, OsMlo2, are able to complement powdery mildew-resistant barley mlo mutants at the single-cell level. Overexpression of TaMlo-B1 or barley Mlo leads to super-susceptibility to the appropriate powdery mildew formae speciales in both wild-type barley and wheat. Surprisingly, overexpression of either Mlo or TaMlo-B1 also mediates enhanced fungal development to tested inappropriate formae speciales. These results underline a regulatory role for MLO and its wheat and rice orthologs in a basal defense mechanism that can interfere with forma specialis resistance to powdery mildews.
1243750	Whitmore bacillus had killed a horse and a mule in a herd bred for serum production in 1970 (Baharsefat and Amjadi). Out of 157 soil samples from rice fields in Northern Iran it was possible to isolate 19 times Pseudomonas pseudomallei (types I and II) possessing a very high pathogenicity for animals. Attempts at an evaluation of the human incidence of the disease.
12438974	Rhabdomyolysis is a known complication of hepatic 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA) inhibitor (statin) therapy for posttransplant hyperlipidemia, and thus monitoring for this effect is indicated. We report a case of an herbal preparation-induced rhabdomyolysis in a stable renal-transplant recipient, attributed to the presence of red yeast rice (Monascus purpureus) within the mixture. The condition resolved when consumption of the product ceased. Rice fermented with red yeast contains several types of mevinic acids, including monacolin K, which is identical to lovastatin. We postulate that the interaction of cyclosporine and these compounds through the cytochrome P450 system resulted in the adverse effect seen in this patient. Transplant recipients must be cautioned against using herbal preparations to lower their lipid levels to prevent such complications from occurring.
12441643	Previous studies based on morphological and molecular markers indicated that there are two cultivated and five wild rice species within the Oryza genus with the AA genome. In the cultivated rice species, Oryza sativa, a retroposon named p-SINE1 has been identified. Some of the p-SINE1 members characterized previously showed interspecific insertion polymorphisms in the species with the AA genome. In this study, we identified new p-SINE1 members showing interspecific insertion polymorphisms from representative strains of four wild rice species with the AA genome: O. barthii, O. glumaepatula, O. longistaminata, and O. meridionalis. Some of these members were present only in strains of one species, whereas the others were present in strains of two or more species. The p-SINE1 insertion patterns in the strains of the Asian and African cultivated rice species O. sativa and O. glaberrima were very similar to those of the Asian and African wild rice species O. rufipogon and O. barthii, respectively. This is consistent with the previous hypothesis that O. sativa and O. glaberrima are derived from specific wild rice species. Phylogenetic analysis based on the p-SINE1 insertion patterns showed that the strains of each of the five wild rice species formed a cluster. The strains of O. longistaminata appear to be distantly related to those of O. meridionalis. The strains of these two species appear to be distantly related to those of three other species, O. rufipogon, O. barthii and O. glumaepatula. The latter three species are closely related to one another with O. barthii and O. glumaepatula being most closely related. A phylogenetic tree including a hypothetical ancestor with all loci empty for p-SINE1 insertion showed that the strains of O. longistaminata are related most closely to the hypothetical ancestor. This indicates that O. longistaminata and O. meridionalis diverged early on, whereas the other species diverged relatively recently, and suggests that the Oryza genus with AA genome might have originated in Africa, rather than in Asia.
12442895	Many aspects of epigenetic phenomena have been elucidated via studies of transposable elements. An active transposable element frequently loses its ability to mobilize and goes into an inactive state during development. In this study, we describe the cyclic activity of a maize transposable element dissociation (Ds) in rice. In rice genome, Ds undergoes the spontaneous loss of mobility. However, an inactive state of Ds can be changed into an active state during tissue culture. The recovery of mobility accompanies not only changes in the methylation patterns of the terminal region of Ds, but also alteration in the steady state level of the activator (Ac) mRNA that is expressed by a constitutive CaMV 35S promoter. Furthermore, the Ds-reactivation process is not random, but stage-specific during plantlet regeneration. Our findings have expanded previous observations on Ac reactivation in the tissue culture of maize.
12443901	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of rice bacterial blight disease. Numerous genes critical for virulence have been identified. This article reviews current knowledge on the molecular mechanisms of X. oryzae pv. oryzae virulence.
12444418	Fast neutron mutagenesis has long been used for forward genetic studies in plants. Only recently has it been used for reverse genetics. By combining fast neutron mutagenesis and high throughput PCR screening, a new knockout methodology, Deleteagene (Delete-a-gene), was developed in Arabidopsis and rice to obtain deletion mutants for target genes. Since fast neutron is a highly efficient mutagen that produces deletion mutations easily detectable by PCR, this method has the potential to enable reverse genetic screens in most plant species. In this review, we will discuss the use of fast neutron as a mutagen for creating deletion mutations, and strategies for successful application of Deleteagene in other plant species.
12445121	Molecular genetic and physiological studies on brassinosteroid (BR)-related mutants of dicot plants have revealed that BRs play important roles in normal plant growth and development. However, little is known about the function of BR in monocots (grasses), except for the phenotypic analysis of a rice mutant partially insensitive to BR signaling. To investigate the function of BR in monocots, we identified and characterized BR-deficient mutants of rice, BR-deficient dwarf1 (brd1). The brd1 mutants showed a range of abnormalities in organ development and growth, the most striking of which were defects in the elongation of the stem and leaves. Light microscopic observations revealed that this abnormality was primarily owing to a failure in the organization and polar elongation of the leaf and stem cells. The accumulation profile of BR compounds in the brd1 mutants suggested that these plants may be deficient in the activity of BR C-6 oxidase. Therefore, we cloned a rice gene, OsDWARF, which has a high sequence similarity to the tomato C-6 oxidase gene, DWARF. Introduction of the wild-type OsDWARF gene into brd1 rescued the abnormal phenotype of the mutants. The OsDWARF gene was expressed at a low level in all of the examined tissues, with preferential expression in the leaf sheath, and the expression was negatively regulated by brassinolide treatment. On the basis of these findings, we discuss the biological function of BRs in rice plants.
12446138	Genome analysis shows that large-scale gene duplications have occurred in fungi, animals and plants, creating genomic regions that show similarity in gene content and order. However, the high frequency of gene loss reduces colinearity resulting in duplicated regions that, in the extreme, no longer share homologous genes. Here, we show that by comparison with an appropriate second genome, such paralogous regions can still be identified.
12447409
12447438	The rice species Oryza sativa is considered to be a model plant because of its small genome size, extensive genetic map, relative ease of transformation and synteny with other cereal crops. Here we report the essentially complete sequence of chromosome 1, the longest chromosome in the rice genome. We summarize characteristics of the chromosome structure and the biological insight gained from the sequence. The analysis of 43.3 megabases (Mb) of non-overlapping sequence reveals 6,756 protein coding genes, of which 3,161 show homology to proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana, another model plant. About 30% (2,073) of the genes have been functionally categorized. Rice chromosome 1 is (G + C)-rich, especially in its coding regions, and is characterized by several gene families that are dispersed or arranged in tandem repeats. Comparison with a draft sequence indicates the importance of a high-quality finished sequence.
12447439	Rice is the principal food for over half of the population of the world. With its genome size of 430 megabase pairs (Mb), the cultivated rice species Oryza sativa is a model plant for genome research. Here we report the sequence analysis of chromosome 4 of O. sativa, one of the first two rice chromosomes to be sequenced completely. The finished sequence spans 34.6 Mb and represents 97.3% of the chromosome. In addition, we report the longest known sequence for a plant centromere, a completely sequenced contig of 1.16 Mb corresponding to the centromeric region of chromosome 4. We predict 4,658 protein coding genes and 70 transfer RNA genes. A total of 1,681 predicted genes match available unique rice expressed sequence tags. Transposable elements have a pronounced bias towards the euchromatic regions, indicating a close correlation of their distributions to genes along the chromosome. Comparative genome analysis between cultivated rice subspecies shows that there is an overall syntenic relationship between the chromosomes and divergence at the level of single-nucleotide polymorphisms and insertions and deletions. By contrast, there is little conservation in gene order between rice and Arabidopsis.
12450152	A lambdaZAP II cDNA library was constructed from mRNA in immature seeds of the grass Job's tears. A cDNA clone for a cysteine proteinase inhibitor, cystatin, was isolated from the library. The cDNA clone spanned 757 base pairs and encoded 135 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence was similar to that of cystatins from the gramineous plants rice, sorghum, and corn. The central Gln-Val-Val-Ala-Gly sequence thought to be one of the binding sites of cystatins was found. A remarkable characteristic of the peptide sequence of Job's-tears cystatin was the putative signal peptide that has been found in sorghum and corn but not in rice. The cystatin cDNA was expressed in Escherichia coli as a His-tagged recombinant protein. The purified recombinant protein inhibited papain.
12450850	Smectite clay minerals are abundant in soils and sediments worldwide and are typically rich in Fe. While recent investigations have shown that the structural Fe(III) bound in clay minerals is reduced by microorganisms, previous studies have not tested growth with clay minerals as the sole electron acceptor. Here we have demonstrated that a pure culture of Shewanella oneidensis strain MR-1 as well as enrichment cultures of Fe(III)-reducing bacteria from rice paddy soil and subsurface sediments are capable of conserving energy for growth with the structural Fe(III) bound in smectite clay as the sole electron acceptor. Pure cultures of S. oneidensis were used for more detailed growth rate and yield experiments on various solid- and soluble-phase electron acceptors [smectite, Fe(III) oxyhydroxide FeOOH, Fe(III) citrate, and oxygen] in the same minimal medium. Growth was assessed as direct cell counts or as an increase in cell carbon (measured as particulate organic carbon). Cell counts showed that similar growth of S. oneidensis (10(8) cells ml(-1)) occurred with smectitic Fe(III) and on other Fe forms [amorphous Fe(III) oxyhydroxide, and Fe citrate] or oxygen as the electron acceptor. In contrast, cell yields of S. oneidensis measured as the increase in cell carbon were similar on all Fe forms tested while yields on oxygen were five times higher, in agreement with thermodynamic predictions. Over a range of particle loadings (0.5 to 4 g liter(-1)), the increase in cell number was highly correlated to the amount of structural Fe in smectite reduced. From phylogenetic analysis of the complete 16S rRNA gene sequences, a predominance of clones retrieved from the clay mineral-reducing enrichment cultures were most closely related to the low-G+C gram-positive members of the Bacteria (Clostridium and Desulfitobacterium) and the delta-Proteobacteria (members of the Geobacteraceae). Results indicate that growth with smectitic Fe(III) is similar in magnitude to that with Fe(III) oxide minerals and is dependent upon the mineral surface area available. Iron(III) bound in clay minerals should be considered an important electron acceptor supporting the growth of bacteria in soils or sedimentary environments.
12452669	Amylose content and amylopectin chain length distribution, the two most commonly used structural parameters of starch, have significant effects on starch retrogradation. In the present work, starches were separated and purified from 18 rice cultivars. The amylopectin was purified from each starch. Amylopectin chain length distribution was analyzed by high-performance size-exclusion chromatography after debranched using isoamylase. The blue value was used to measure the amylose content before and after the defatting of starch. The amount of amylose associated with lipid was calculated. Pulsed nuclear magnetic resonance was used to follow the retrogradation of starch both in cooked rice grains and in the purified form. The Avrami equation was employed to describe the retrogradation kinetics of rice starch. To look into the relationship between the starch structure and retrogradation behavior, the structural parameters were correlated with retrogradation kinetics parameters using both Pearson and partial correlations. The results indicated the following: first, the retrogradation behavior of rice starch remains similar in both the purified form and cooked rice grains; second, the peak value of amylopectin short-chain length has a significant positive relationship with the amylopectin crystallization rate constant k; third, the amylose content after defatting has a significant positive relationship with the parameter k and a negative relationship with the Avrami exponent n; and fourth, the amount of amylose associated with lipid has a negative relationship with the parameter k.
12452673	Physical processing with or without enzyme treatments on protein extraction from heat-stabilized defatted rice bran (HDRB) was evaluated. Freeze-thaw, sonication, high-speed blending, and high-pressure methods extracted 12%, 15%, 16%, and 11% protein, respectively. Sonication (0-100%, 750 W), followed by amylase and combined amylase and protease treatments, extracted 25.6-33.9% and 54.0-57.8% protein, respectively. Blending followed by amylase and protease treatment extracted 5.0% more protein than the nonblended enzymatic treatments. High-pressure treatments, 0-800 MPa, with water or amylase-protease combinations, extracted 10.5-11.1% or 61.8-66.6% protein, respectively. These results suggest that physical processing in combination with enzyme treatments can be effective in extracting protein from HDRB.
12453155	A recent report based on analysis of the Arabidopsis genome suggested that angiosperms do not contain the dynein microtubule motor. However, examination of the whole genome shotgun sequence for rice (Oryza sativa) has revealed that four dynein heavy chains are present in this monocot, indicating that the apparent lack of these sequences in Arabidopsis is not a general feature of angiosperm genomic organization. These observations also suggest that, in contrast to an earlier proposal, flowering plants may indeed use standard dynein-driven mechanisms to perform cellular transport activities that, in other organisms, employ the dynein motor
12453515	A Penicillium sp was isolated from the root bark of Melia azedarach and cultivated over sterilized rice. After chromatographic procedures, two meroterpenes, named preaustinoid A and B, were obtained in addition to the known alkaloid verruculogen. Their structures were identified by extensive spectroscopic studies, and they exhibited moderate bacteriostatic effects on Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Bacillus sp.
12453530	Two indole-alkaloid isoprenoids were isolated from extracts of Penicillium crustosum Thom grown on rice. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of various NMR experiments and by comparison to the structurally related penitrems. The two compounds, designated thomitrem A and thomitrem E, contain a 18(19)-double bond and lack the characteristic penitrem 17(18)-ether linkage.
12454082	Orthologous regions in barley, rice, sorghum, and wheat were studied by bacterial artificial chromosome sequence analysis. General microcolinearity was observed for the four shared genes in this region. However, three genic rearrangements were observed. First, the rice region contains a cluster of 48 predicted small nucleolar RNA genes, but the comparable region from sorghum contains no homologous loci. Second, gene 2 was inverted in the barley lineage by an apparent unequal recombination after the ancestors of barley and wheat diverged, 11-15 million years ago (mya). Third, gene 4 underwent direct tandem duplication in a common ancestor of barley and wheat 29-41 mya. All four of the shared genes show the same synonymous substitution rate, but nonsynonymous substitution rates show significant variations between genes 4a and 4b, suggesting that gene 4b was largely released from the strong purifying selection that acts on gene 4a in both barley and wheat. Intergenic retrotransposon blocks, many of them organized as nested insertions, mostly account for the lower gene density of the barley and wheat regions. All but two of the retrotransposons were found in the regions between genes, while all but 2 of the 51 inverted repeat transposable elements were found as insertions in genic regions and outside the retrotransposon blocks.
12455705	The diversity of salt-tolerant bacteria present in the rhizosphere of Oryza sativa was investigated. Fourteen bacterial strains, isolated after enrichment in nitrogen-free, semi-solid medium and showing tolerance to 3% NaCl, were analyzed by restriction patterns produced by amplified DNA coding for 16S rDNA (ARDRA) with enzymes Sau3AI, AluI and RsaI which showed that they were represented by 4 ARDRA types. Biodiversity among the 14 strains was also analyzed by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique with a 10-mer primer. Partial nucleotide sequence of 16S rDNA assigned these clusters to Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans and Ochrobactrum anthropi. Notably, all four bacterial species are potential human pathogens that infect immunocompromised patients.
12456878	Trehalose is a nonreducing disaccharide of glucose that functions as a compatible solute in the stabilization of biological structures under abiotic stress in bacteria, fungi, and invertebrates. With the notable exception of the desiccation-tolerant "resurrection plants," trehalose is not thought to accumulate to detectable levels in most plants. We report here the regulated overexpression of Escherichia coli trehalose biosynthetic genes (otsA and otsB) as a fusion gene for manipulating abiotic stress tolerance in rice. The fusion gene has the advantages of necessitating only a single transformation event and a higher net catalytic efficiency for trehalose formation. The expression of the transgene was under the control of either tissue-specific or stress-dependent promoters. Compared with nontransgenic rice, several independent transgenic lines exhibited sustained plant growth, less photo-oxidative damage, and more favorable mineral balance under salt, drought, and low-temperature stress conditions. Depending on growth conditions, the transgenic rice plants accumulate trehalose at levels 3-10 times that of the nontransgenic controls. The observation that peak trehalose levels remain well below 1 mgg fresh weight indicates that the primary effect of trehalose is not as a compatible solute. Rather, increased trehalose accumulation correlates with higher soluble carbohydrate levels and an elevated capacity for photosynthesis under both stress and nonstress conditions, consistent with a suggested role in modulating sugar sensing and carbohydrate metabolism. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of engineering rice for increased tolerance of abiotic stress and enhanced productivity through tissue-specific or stress-dependent overproduction of trehalose.
1245884	Male weanling rats were fed a 72% rice diet containing no detectable carnitine and limiting in threonine and lysine. Such dietary conditions may simulate protein malnutrition in man. Under these conditions growth impairment, anemia, hypoproteinemia, and fatty liver developed. The study focused principally on the fatty liver syndrome which was corrected to varying extents depending on degrees of supplementation with carnitine, lysine, threonine, and appropriate combinations of these nutrients. Such reduction in fatty liver accumulation was accounted for principally by the lowering of triglycerides, but also in part of total cholesterol levels. All the data, which also included monitoring carnitine uptake by the tissues and measurement of plasma triglycerides, were consistent with the view that fatty liver accumulation occurs in amino acid deficient diets because (a) of an impairment in the synthesis of the lipoprotein complex mandatory for triglyceride secretion from the liver and (b) from a deficiency of carnitine needed for the intramitochondrial transport of fatty acids prerequisite for their oxidation.
12459199	cDNA for ultraspiracle (USP) from the lepidopteran rice stem borer Chilo suppressalis was cloned using PCR techniques. The deduced amino acid sequence of C. suppressalis USP (CsUSP) was very similar to those of other lepidopteran USPs, especially to the Manduca sexta USP-2 isoform. Northern hybridization analysis detected a 6.5-kb message in the epidermis, fat body, and midgut of wandering larvae. CsUSP mRNA expression in the epidermis varied little during the last larval instar. Gel mobility shift assays showed that in vitro translated C. suppressalis ecdysone receptor (CsEcR) and CsUSP proteins bound to the Pal1 or Drosophila melanogaster hsp27 ecdysone response element as a heterodimer. In a ligand-receptor binding assay, [(3)H]ponasterone A ([(3)H]PoA) did not bind to individual CsEcR or CsUSP protein, but bound strongly to the CsEcR/CsUSP complex. [(3)H]PoA binding to CsEcR/CsUSP complex was competed by 20-hydroxyecdysone and a non-steroidal ecdysteroid agonist, RH-5992, but not by cholesterol, indicating that compounds with molting hormone activity against C. suppressalis can bind specifically to the CsEcR/CsUSP complex.
12460150	To investigate infant feeding practices followed by Pakistani mothers in Pakistan and in England. To establish if practices conform to current guidelines and to investigate reasons for adherence and nonadherence. Ninety mothers of weaning age children were interviewed; 45 were in England and 45 in Pakistan. A questionnaire available in English and Urdu sought to find out about the methods of milk feeding and weaning used and the advice received, together with general beliefs about weaning. Characteristics of the infants in terms of current age, gender distribution, birth order of baby and age of weaning showed no significant differences between the two groups. Thus, differences between the two groups could be attributed to cultural differences rather than any of these factors. Chi-square analysis showed that the initial method of feeding chosen was significantly different (P < 0.001, d.f. = 2) with 73% of mothers in Pakistan breast-feeding compared with 24% in England. Similar proportions of mothers in both groups commenced weaning between 3 and 4 months. Common weaning foods included rice, cereals and eggs with progression to fruit and vegetables and family food in Pakistan, and fruit, vegetables, meat and convenience foods (especially sweet options) in England. Both groups of mothers wanted more information about infant feeding practices. Mothers in Pakistan demonstrated more confidence in weaning practices than in England because of experiences with other siblings and advice from relatives. More advice from health professionals was requested and is needed by all mothers in order to improve weaning practices of the infants.
12460937	The interactions of two economically important gall midge species, the rice gall midge and the Hessian fly, with their host plants, rice and wheat, respectively, are characterized by plant defense via R genes and insect adaptation via avr genes. The interaction of a third gall midge species, the orange wheat blossom midge, with wheat defense R genes has not yet exhibited insect adaptation. Because of the simple genetics underlying important aspects of these gall midge-grass interactions, a unique opportunity exists for integrating plant and insect molecular genetics with coevolutionary ecology. We present an overview of some genetic, physiological, behavioral, and ecological studies that will contribute to this integration and point to areas in need of study.
12461173	The African species of rice (Oryza glaberrima) was cultivated long before Europeans arrived in the continent. At present, O. glaberrima is being replaced by the introduced Asian species of rice, Oryza sativa. Some West African farmers, including the Jola of southern Senegal, still grow African rice for use in ritual contexts. The two species of rice have recently been crossed, producing a promising hybrid.
12465716	We searched for SNPs in 417 regions distributed throughout the genome of three Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cultivars, two indica cultivars, and a wild rice (O. rufipogon). We found 2800 SNPs in approximately 250,000 aligned bases for an average of one SNP every 89 bp, or one SNP every 232 bp between two randomly selected strains. Graphic representation of the frequency of SNPs along each chromosome showed uneven distribution of polymorphism-rich and -poor regions, but little obvious association with the centromere or telomere. The 94 SNPs that we found between the closely related cultivars 'Nipponbare' and 'Koshihikari' can be converted into molecular markers. Our establishment of 213 co-dominant SNP markers distributed throughout the genome illustrates the immense potential of SNPs as molecular markers not only for genome research, but also for molecular breeding of rice.
12466291	The diversity of the largest group of plant disease resistance genes, the nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) genes, was examined in cereals following polymerase chain reaction (PCR) cloning and database mining. NBS-LRR genes in rice are a large and diverse class with more than 600 genes, at least three to four times the complement of Arabidopsis. Most occur in small families containing one or a few cross-hybridizing members. Unlike in Arabidopsis and other dicots, the class of NBS-LRR genes coding for a Toll and mammalian interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain were not amplified during the evolution of the cereals. Genes coding for TIR domains are present in the rice genome, but have diverged from the NBS-LRR genes. Most cereal genes are similar in structure to the members of the non-TIR class of dicots, although many do not code for a coiled-coil domain in their amino termini. One unique class of cereal genes, with ~50 members, codes for proteins similar to the N-termini and NBS domains of resistance genes but does not code for LRR domains. The resistance gene repertoire of grasses has changed from that of dicots in their independent evolution since the two groups diverged. It is not clear whether this reflects a difference in downstream defense signaling pathways.
12468310	The aim of this study was to evaluate two commercially available selected-protein-source diets as maintenance diets in cats with dermatological manifestations of adverse food reactions. Twenty cats with a confirmed adverse food reaction were tested in a double-blind manner. An adverse food reaction was diagnosed when, after recovery with a home-cooked elimination diet, the signs relapsed after a challenge with their previous dietary components, and re-disappeared on a second elimination diet period. Hereafter the cats were blind and randomly challenged with two commercial hypoallergenic diets. Relapse of the clinical signs was seen in eight cats (40%) on a lamb and rice diet and in 13 cats (65%) on a chicken and rice diet (P>0.05). Neither one of the commercial diets was as effective in controlling the skin problems as the home-cooked elimination diet. The study confirms that commercial hypoallergenic diets are adequate for maintenance.
12468735	The rice basic domain/Leu zipper factor TRAB1 binds to abscisic acid (ABA) response elements and mediates ABA signals to activate transcription. We show that TRAB1 is phosphorylated rapidly in an in vivo labeling experiment and by phosphatase-sensitive mobility shifts on SDS-polyacrylamide gels. We had shown previously that a chimeric promoter containing GAL4 binding sites became ABA inducible when a GAL4 binding domain-TRAB1 fusion protein was present. This expression system allowed us to assay the ABA response function of TRAB1. Using this system, we show that Ser-102 of TRAB1 is critical for this function. Because no ABA-induced mobility shift was observed when Ser-102 was replaced by Ala, we suggest that this Ser residue is phosphorylated in response to ABA. Cell fractionation experiments, as well as fluorescence microscopy observations of transiently expressed green fluorescent protein-TRAB1 fusion protein, indicated that TRAB1 was localized in the nucleus independently of ABA. Our results suggest that the terminal or nearly terminal event of the primary ABA signal transduction pathway is the phosphorylation in the nucleus of preexisting TRAB1.
12471441	The entire mitochondrial genome of rice (Oryza sativa L.), a monocot plant, has been sequenced. It was found to comprise 490,520 bp, with an average G+C content of 43.8%. Three rRNA genes, 17 tRNA genes and five pseudo tRNA sequences were identified. In addition, eleven ribosomal protein genes and two pseudo ribosomal protein genes were found, which are homologous to 13 of the 16 genes for ribosomal proteins in the mitochondrial genome of the liverwort (Marchantia polymorpha). A greater degree of variation in terms of presence/absence and integrity of genes was observed among the ribosomal protein genes and tRNA genes of rice, Arabidopsis and sugar beet. Transcription and post-transcriptional modification (RNA editing) in the rice mitochondrial sequence were also examined. In all, 491 Cs in the genomic DNA were converted to Ts in cDNA. The frequency of RNA editing differed markedly depending upon the ORF considered. Sequences derived from plastid and nuclear genomes make up 6.3% and 13.4% of the mitochondrial genome, respectively. The degree of conservation of plastid sequences in the mitochondrial genome ranged from 61% to 100%, suggesting that sequence migration has occurred very frequently. Three plastid DNA fragments that were incorporated into the mitochondrial genome were subsequently transferred to the nuclear genome. Nineteen fragments that were similar to transposon or retrotransposon sequences, but different from those found in the mitochondrial genomes of dicots, were identified. The results indicate frequent and independent DNA sequence flow to and from the mitochondrial genome during the evolution of flowering plants, and this may account for the range of genetic variation observed between the mitochondrial genomes of higher plants.
12471446	Genes from the SNF2 family play important roles in transcriptional regulation, maintenance of chromosome integrity and DNA repair. This study describes the molecular cloning and characterization of cereal genes from this family. The predicted proteins exhibit a novel C-terminal domain that defines a new subfamily designated SNF2P that includes human and mouse proteins. Comparison between genomic and cDNA sequences showed that cereal Snf2P genes consisted of 17 exons, including one only 8 bp long. Two barley alleles differed by the presence of a 7.7-kb non-LTR retrotransposon in intron 6. An alternative annotation of the orthologous Arabidopsis gene would improve its similarity with the other members of the subfamily. Intron 2 was not spliced out in approximately half of the rice Snf2P mRNAs present in leaves, resulting in a premature stop codon. Transcripts from the barley and wheat Snf2P genes were found in apexes, leaves, sheaths, roots and spikes. The Snf2P genes exist as single copies on wheat chromosome arm 5A(m)L and in the colinear regions on barley chromosome arm 4HL and rice chromosome 3. High-density genetic mapping and RT-PCR suggest that Snf2P is not a candidate gene for the tightly linked vernalization gene Vrn2.
12472161	Experiments were conducted in order to evaluate the behaviour of some pesticides commonly used in rice production. At a laboratory scale, but exposed to the environmental conditions, a known concentration of pesticides in water flowed through a cement channel over a sediment layer, at a constant flow rate. The collected water was homogenised and analysed by gas chromatography/HPLC to assess the concentration of each pesticide. Under these conditions, the reduction of each pestcide concentration in water depends on the nature of it and on the water flow rate. The lower the flow rate, the grater the reduction in the concentration of pesticides in the water that ran over the sediment layer. Experiments were also carried out under field conditions, using a 1200 m length, 2 m width and 0.3 m depth rice field channel. A pesticide mixture of known concentration was poured on the flowing water and mixed thoroughly. After the arrival of this contaminated water at preestablished sampling points down the stream, the concentration of each pesticide in water was determined. The longer the distance of the sampling points downstream from the starting point, the lower the pesticide concentration found. Only a few pesticides were detected at the 1200 m sampling point, but at very low concentration. The others were not detected. It was pointed out that the channel length was the most important factor in the reduction of the pesticide concentration in the flowing water. The influence of the flow rate on this reduction could not be clearly related as in the laboratory experiments.
12472222	Radiation and chemical cross-linking of medical grade ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) has recently been utilized in an effort to improve wear performance of total joint replacement components. However, reductions in mechanical properties with cross-linking are cause for concern regarding the use of cross-linked UHMWPE for high-stress applications such as in total knee replacement prostheses. In this study, the fracture behavior of radiation cross-linked UHMWPE was compared to that of uncross-linked UHMWPE. The Rice and Sorensen model that utilizes mechanical parameters obtained from uniaxial tensile and compact tension tests was used to calculate the steady state J-integral fracture toughness, Jss, for radiation cross-linked UHMWPE. Jss decreased monotonically with increase in radiation dose. UHMWPE exhibited tough, ductile tearing behavior with stable crack growth when it was cross-linked using a gamma radiation dose of 0-50 kGy. However, in cross-linked UHMWPE irradiated to a dose of 100 and 200 kGy, unstable fracture occurred spontaneously upon attaining the initial crack driving force, J1c. This indicates that a high degree of cross-linking is less desirable for high-stress applications in orthopaedic implants. However, a substantial increase in J1c, even at a low degree of cross-linking, suggests that a low degree of cross-linking may be beneficial for resistance to delamination and catastrophic failure, both of which require an initiation step for the fracture to propagate in the material. This mechanical test should, however, be considered along with fatigue tests and joint simulator testing before determination of an appropriate amount of cross-linking for total joint replacement prostheses that experience high stresses.
12474067	There is a paucity of accurate data regarding any association in the general population between defecation and lifestyle factors such as diet, exercise, physique, and childbirth. To evaluate the effects of such lifestyle factors on defecation among regional residents of Japan. Residents (n = 1,699) of northern Japan, aged over 40 years, were surveyed in 1995 using a questionnaire to assess their lifestyle factors (diet, beverage consumption, exercise, physique, and childbirth), and examining their defecation status. We evaluated the relationship between these lifestyle factors and defecation using logistic regression analysis. The authors used four measures (defecation frequency, subjective defecation state, subjective fecal properties, and fecal consistency) and assigned the subjects to a group defined by their defecatory status: constipation, diarrhea, or normal, depending on the responses of the subjects to all four criteria. The tendency for constipation correlated positively with age in males (p = 0.130), although this trend was not observed in females (p = 0.641). Of the dietary factors examined, only rice, which accounts for the largest proportion of daily dietary fiber intake in Japan, demonstrated a preventive effect on constipation in both sexes (p = 0.050 in males and 0.003 in females). Walking was a preventive factor for constipation among males (p = 0.049), and alcohol also inhibited constipation among males (p = 0.007). These results suggest that exercise, such as walking, and a high intake of dietary fiber, such as rice, were useful in the maintenance of defecation.
12474470	There is concern that crop irrigation that results in increased numbers of vector mosquitoes will lead to a rise in malaria in local communities. We evaluated the level of malaria experienced in 3 communities in northern Tanzania with different agricultural practices: rice irrigation, sugar-cane irrigation and traditional maize cultivation. Five cross-sectional surveys were used to measure the prevalence of infection with falciparum malaria in 1-4 years old children in each community over a period of 12 months. Active case detection was also carried out to record clinical episodes of malaria during the study period. Information on antimalarial measures was also recorded. Results from the cross-sectional surveys showed that the overall prevalence of malaria parasites was less near the rice irrigation (12.5%) and sugar-cane (16.9%) schemes than the savannah village (29.4%). There were also significantly fewer clinical episodes of malaria in the rice village (15 cases/1000 child-weeks at risk [cwar]) than either the sugar-cane (36 cases/1000 cwar) or savannah (40 cases/1000 cwar) villages. Overall, rice irrigation was associated with less malaria than alternative agricultural practices, despite the considerable numbers of vectors produced in the paddies. This finding supports other studies that indicate that irrigation in much of sub-Saharan Africa will not lead to increased malaria. Nonetheless, African governments planning irrigation projects need effective policies to encourage local communities to use personal protection measures, such as insecticide-treated bednets, and to ensure that these communities have access to effective antimalarial drugs and efficient health services.
12475265	The extracts from white-, black-, and red-hulled rice were prepared by sequential extraction with six different polar solvents, and their radical-scavenging activities were measured by methods using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical (DPPH*) and tert-butyl hydroperoxyl radical (t-BuOO*). The extracts prepared with highly polar solvents, methanol and deionized water, exhibited higher DPPH* and t-BuOO* scavenging activities in all three cultivars. In addition, the acetone extract from red-hulled rice exhibited a high DPPH* and t-BuOO* scavenging activity, while no such activity was detected for the acetone extracts from white- and black-hulled rice. The major components responsible for the radical scavenging in the acetone extract from red-hulled rice were identified as procyanidins by acidic hydrolysis, vanillin assay, and Sephadex LH-20 chromatography. GPC analysis of the acetylated procyanidins revealed that the average molecular weight is about 5000, in a range of about 500-18,000.
12475494	Rice holds the record for the largest number of separate genome projects and for having the genome of two subspecies sequenced. This might be a short-lived record in the genomics era, but it highlights the significance of rice as a food staple and as a model plant for cereal species. Clearly, obtaining the genome sequence four times seems redundant, yet the rationale and motivation for each of these projects is valid; whether it is serving corporate shareholders or the general scientific community. Although the multiple projects resulted in some duplicated efforts, the value of data sharing was obvious and the winner in the end will be the global public.
12475618	Two cDNA clones, OsFKI and OsFKII, encoding fructokinase (EC 2.7.1.4) were isolated from immature seeds of rice (Oryza sativa L.) by PCR. OsFKI cDNA encoded a deduced protein of 323 amino acids that was 59-71% identical to previously characterized plant fructokinases. In contrast, OsFKII cDNA encoded a deduced protein of 336 amino acids that shared only 64% amino acid identity with OsFKI. The deduced proteins both possessed an ATP-binding motif and putative substrate recognition site sequences that were previously identified in bacterial fructokinases. Genomic DNA blot analysis also revealed that each fructokinase gene exists as a single copy in the rice genome. The identity of OsFKI and OsFKII as fructokinases was confirmed by the expression of enzyme activity in E. coli. Although both OsFKI and OsFKII utilized fructose as substrate, only OsFKII activity was strongly inhibited at a high fructose concentration. The mRNA corresponding to OsFKII accumulated at high levels in developing rice grains, whereas there were only low levels of OsFKI transcripts in immature seeds. These results indicate that fructokinase in rice endosperm is encoded by two divergent genes, which play different roles in rice grains for starch storage based on their sensitivity to substrate inhibition and level of transcripts in endosperm.
12477884	We investigated the interaction of Rice grassy stunt tenuivirus (RGSV) nonstructural protein p5, a protein of 22 kDa encoded on vRNA 5, with all 12 RGSV proteins by using a GAL4 transcription activator-based yeast two-hybrid system. The p5 protein interacted only with itself and not with any other viral protein; the interacting domains were localized within the N-terminal 96 amino acids of p5. The p5-p5 interaction was reproduced in an Sos recruitment-mediated yeast two-hybrid system as well in by far-Western blots. Native p5 protein extracted from RGSV-infected rice tissue was detected in a large complex with a molecular mass of approximately 260 kDa composed of 12 molecules of p5 or a p5 oligomer with an unidentified host factor(s).
12480363	In Bangladesh, rice is boiled with an excessive amount of water, and the water remaining after cooking will be discarded. We did an on-site experiment to assess the effect of this cooking method on the amount of arsenic retained in cooked rice. The concentration of arsenic in cooked rice was higher than that in raw rice and absorbed water combined, suggesting a chelating effect by rice grains, or concentration of arsenic because of water evaporation during cooking, or both. The method of cooking and water used can affect the amount of arsenic in cooked rice, which will have implications for the assessment of the health risks of arsenic.
12481040
12481044	Gramene (http://www.gramene.org) is a comparative genome mapping database for grasses and a community resource for rice (Oryza sativa). It combines a semi-automatically generated database of cereal genomic and expressed sequence tag sequences, genetic maps, map relations, and publications, with a curated database of rice mutants (genes and alleles), molecular markers, and proteins. Gramene curators read and extract detailed information from published sources, summarize that information in a structured format, and establish links to related objects both inside and outside the database, providing seamless connections between independent sources of information. Genetic, physical, and sequence-based maps of rice serve as the fundamental organizing units and provide a common denominator for moving across species and genera within the grass family. Comparative maps of rice, maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and oat (Avena sativa) are anchored by a set of curated correspondences. In addition to sequence-based mappings found in comparative maps and rice genome displays, Gramene makes extensive use of controlled vocabularies to describe specific biological attributes in ways that permit users to query those domains and make comparisons across taxonomic groups. Proteins are annotated for functional significance using gene ontology terms that have been adopted by numerous model species databases. Genetic variants including phenotypes are annotated using plant ontology terms common to all plants and trait ontology terms that are specific to rice. In this paper, we present a brief overview of the search tools available to the plant research community in Gramene.
12481045	A "gene-island" sequencing strategy has been developed that expedites the targeted acquisition of orthologous gene sequences from related species for comparative genome analysis. A 152-kb bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) encoding phytochrome A (PHYA) was fully sequenced, revealing 16 open reading frames with a gene density similar to many regions of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome. The sequences of genes in the orthologous region of the maize (Zea mays) and rice genomes were obtained using the gene-island sequencing method. BAC clones containing the orthologous maize and rice PHYA genes were identified, sheared, subcloned, and probed with the sorghum PHYA-containing BAC DNA. Sequence analysis revealed that approximately 75% of the cross-hybridizing subclones contained sequences orthologous to those within the sorghum PHYA BAC and less than 25% contained repetitive and/or BAC vector DNA sequences. The complete sequence of four genes, including up to 1 kb of their promoter regions, was identified in the maize PHYA BAC. Nine orthologous gene sequences were identified in the rice PHYA BAC. Sequence comparison of the orthologous sorghum and maize genes aided in the identification of exons and conserved regulatory sequences flanking each open reading frame. Within genomic regions where micro-colinearity of genes is absolutely conserved, gene-island sequencing is a particularly useful tool for comparative analysis of genomes between related species.
12481047	We have developed a new T-DNA vector, pGA2715, which can be used for promoter trapping and activation tagging of rice (Oryza sativa) genes. The binary vector contains the promoterless beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene next to the right border. In addition, the multimerized transcriptional enhancers from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter are located next to the left border. A total of 13,450 T-DNA insertional lines have been generated using pGA2715. Histochemical GUS assays have revealed that the GUS-staining frequency from those lines is about twice as high as that from lines transformed with the binary vector pGA2707, which lacks the enhancer element. This result suggests that the enhancer sequence present in the T-DNA improves the GUS-tagging efficiency. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis of a subset of randomly selected pGA2715 lines shows that expression of the genes immediately adjacent to the inserted enhancer is increased significantly. Therefore, the large population of T-DNA-tagged lines transformed with pGA2715 could be used to screen for promoter activity using the gus reporter, as well as for creating gain-of-function mutants.
12481052	Dasheng is one of the highest copy number long terminal repeat elements and one of the most recent elements to amplify in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome. However, the absence of any significant coding capacity for retroviral proteins, including gag and pol, suggests that Dasheng is a nonautonomous element. Here, we have exploited the availability of 360 Mb of rice genomic sequence to identify a candidate autonomous element. RIRE2 is a previously described gypsy-like long terminal repeat retrotransposon with significant sequence similarity to Dasheng in the regions where putative cis factors for retrotransposition are thought to be located. Dasheng and RIRE2 elements have similar chromosomal distribution patterns and similar target site sequences, suggesting that they use the same transposition machinery. In addition, the presence of several RIRE2-Dasheng element chimeras in the genome is consistent with the copackaging of element mRNAs in the same virus-like particle. Finally, both families have recently amplified members, suggesting that they could have been co-expressed, a necessary prerequisite for RIRE2 to serve as the source of transposition machinery for Dasheng. Consistent with this hypothesis, transcripts from both elements were found in the same expressed sequence tag library.
12481083	Acclimation to irradiance was measured in terms of light-saturated photosynthetic carbon assimilation rates (P(max)), Rubisco, and pigment content in mature field-grown rice (Oryza sativa) plants in tropical conditions. Measurements were made at different positions within the canopy alongside irradiance and daylight spectra. These data were compared with a second experiment in which acclimation to irradiance was assessed in uppermost leaves within whole-plant shading regimes (10% low light [LL], 40% medium light [ML], and 100% high light [HL] of full natural sunlight). Two varieties, japonica (tropical; new plant type [NPT]) and indica (IR72) were compared. Values for Rubisco amount, chlorophyll a/b, and P(max) all declined from the top to the base of the canopy. In the artificial shading experiment, acclimation of P(max) (measured at 350 microL L(-1) CO(2)) occurred between LL and ML for IR72 with no difference observed between ML and HL. The Rubisco amount increased between ML and HL in IR72. A different pattern was seen for NPT with higher P(max) (measured at 350 microL L(-1) CO(2)) at LL than IR72 and some acclimation of this parameter between ML and HL. Rubisco levels were higher in NPT than IR72 contrasting with P(max). Comparison of data from both experiments suggests a leaf aging effect between the uppermost two leaf positions, which was not a result of irradiance acclimation. Results are discussed in terms of: (a) acclimation of photosynthesis and radiation use efficiency at high irradiance in rice, and (b) factors controlling photosynthetic rates of leaves within the canopy.
12481095	Rice (Oryza sativa) accumulates silicon (Si) in the tops to levels up to 10.0% of shoot dry weight, but the mechanism responsible for high Si uptake by rice roots is not understood. We isolated a rice mutant (GR1) that is defective in active Si uptake by screening M(2) seeds (64,000) of rice cv Oochikara that were treated with 10(-3) M sodium azide for 6 h at 25 degrees C. There were no phenotypic differences between wild type (WT) and GR1 except that the leaf blade of GR1 remained droopy when Si was supplied. Uptake experiments showed that Si uptake by GR1 was significantly lower than that by WT at both low and high Si concentrations. However, there was no difference in the uptake of other nutrients such as phosphorus and potassium. Si concentration in the xylem sap of WT was 33-fold that of the external solution, but that of GR1 was 3-fold higher than the external solution at 0.15 mM Si. Si uptake by WT was inhibited by metabolic inhibitors including NaCN and 2,4-dinitrophenol and by low temperature, whereas Si uptake by GR1 was not inhibited by these agents. These results suggest that an active transport system for Si uptake is disrupted in GR1. Analysis of F(2) populations between GR1 and WT showed that roots with high Si uptake and roots with low Si uptake segregated at a 3:1 ratio, suggesting that GR1 is a recessive mutant of Si uptake.
12481808	Regardless of how well other growing conditions are optimized, crop yields will be limited by the available light up to saturation irradiances. Considering the various factors of clouds on Earth, dust storms on Mars, thickness of atmosphere, and relative orbits, there is roughly 2/3 as much light averaged annually on Mars as on Earth. On Mars, however, crops must be grown under controlled conditions (greenhouse or growth rooms). Because there presently exists no material that can safely be pressurized, insulated, and resist hazards of puncture and deterioration to create life support systems on Mars while allowing for sufficient natural light penetration as well, artificial light will have to be supplied. If high irradiance is provided for long daily photoperiods, the growing area can be reduced by a factor of 3-4 relative to the most efficient irradiance for cereal crops such as wheat and rice, and perhaps for some other crops. Only a small penalty in required energy will be incurred by such optimization. To obtain maximum yields, crops must be chosen that can utilize high irradiances. Factors that increase ability to convert high light into increased productivity include canopy architecture, high-yield index (harvest index), and long-day or day-neutral flowering and tuberization responses. Prototype life support systems such as Bios-3 in Siberia or the Mars on Earth Project need to be undertaken to test and further refine systems and parameters.
12481870	The contamination and distribution of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) from two agricultural fields of a heavily polluted lake area in China (Ya-Er Lake) are presented. The vertical distribution pattern of total PCDD/Fs in soil cores reveals that the maximum concentration was in the layer of 20-30 cm. The concentrations in the top layer of soil at the two sites were similar (17.48 ng/kg at Site 1 and 18.10 ng/kg at Site 2), but the maximum concentration of Site 1 (120.8 ng/kg) was two times higher than that of Site 2 (64.39 ng/kg). The maximum concentration of PCDD/Fs in mud cores in rice fields (0-50 cm) at Sites 1 and 2 was in the layer of 0-10 cm. The maximum PCDD/F concentration in the top layer in mud at Site 1 (203.1 ng/kg) was higher than that at Site 2 (143.3 ng/kg). Significant correlations were found between the mud PCDD/Fs and the organic carbon content (R = 0.9743, P < 0.05 at Site 1; R = 0.9821, P < 0.05 at Site 2), the two variables being highly correlated (R = 0.9049, P < 0.05, at Site 1; R = 0.9916, P < 0.05 at Site 2). All correlation coefficients were significant at the 95% level. Concentrations were highly correlated with organic carbon, indicating that sorption to organic carbon was the dominant mechanism. Using principal component analysis, the homologue profiles of soil, mud, and plants (rice and radish) were compared. The PCDD/F patterns in plants were found not to be correlated to those in soil and mud. This suggests that atmospheric deposition may be the main source of PCDD/Fs in rice grain. However, mixed exposure involving uptake mechanisms and atmospheric deposition is considered main the source of PCDD/F pollution in radishes.
12482579	We engineered a salt-sensitive rice cultivar (Oryza sativa cv. Kinuhikari) to express a vacuolar-type Na+/H+ antiporter gene from a halophytic plant, Atriplex gmelini (AgNHX1). The activity of the vacuolar-type Na+/H+ antiporter in the transgenic rice plants was eight-fold higher than that in wild-type rice plants. Salt tolerance assays followed by non-stress treatments showed that the transgenic plants overexpressing AgNHX1 could survive under conditions of 300 mM NaCl for 3 days while the wild-type rice plants could not. These results indicate that overexpression of the Na+/H+ antiporter gene in rice plants significantly improves their salt tolerance.
12485375	Melatonin, a derivative of an essential amino acid, tryptophan, was first identified in bovine pineal tissue and subsequently it has been portrayed exclusively as a hormone. Recently accumulated evidence has challenged this concept. Melatonin is present in the earliest life forms and is found in all organisms including bacteria, algae, fungi, plants, insects, and vertebrates including humans. Several characteristics of melatonin distinguish it from a classic hormone such as its direct, non-receptor-mediated free radical scavenging activity. As melatonin is also ingested in foodstuffs such as vegetables, fruits, rice, wheat and herbal medicines, from the nutritional point of view, melatonin can also be classified as a vitamin. It seems likely that melatonin initially evolved as an antioxidant, becoming a vitamin in the food chain, and in multicellular organisms, where it is produced, it has acquired autocoid, paracoid and hormonal properties.
12487028	The 20S proteasome is the proteolytic complex that is responsible for degrading short-lived and abnormal proteins, especially those targeted by ubiquitin conjugation. The complex exists, as a hollow cylinder shaped structure comprised of four stacked rings. The outer rings contain 7 alpha subunits and the inner rings contain 7 beta subunits. In this study, we report the amino acid sequence of the alpha 5 subunit (PAE) in soybean (Gylcine max) based on the cDNA sequence. The amino acid sequence identity is 96% with the Arabidops alpha 5 subunit and 95% with the rice alpha 5 subunit. The highly conserved sequence homology suggests there is an important biological role for this proteasome.
12487212	Hydrolyzed formulas (HFs) are in general well tolerated by children with cow's milk allergy (CMA), although cases of allergic reactions have been reported and residual allergenicity of HF has been demonstrated To review the most relevant studies of the HFs for residual allergenicity, tolerance, and safety in the past 20 years. MEDLINE searches for the years 1970 to 2001 using the following algorithm (hydrolysate and allergy; food intolerance/allergy; protein hydrolysate). The literature confirmed that although some antigenicity remains, HFs are well tolerated by children with CMA. Rice HF has proven safe when tested by double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge in a study population of 18 children allergic both to cow's milk (CM) and soy protein. Absolute avoidance of CM proteins means substitution by soy-, rice-, or amino acid-based formulas. As 8 to 14% of infants allergic to CM react to soy and amino acid-based formulas are expensive, scientific societies recommend the use of formulas based on extensively hydrolyzed CM proteins as first alternatives in children with CMA. Although both soy- and rice-based HFs have now been shown to be safe for these children, further nutritional and clinical studies are needed.
12487213	Awareness of the considerable incidence of bovine protein allergy in infancy makes it necessary to eliminate cow's milk antigens from the diet in special cases. The primary objective of this review is to discuss the nutritional aspects and appropriate use of hypoallergenic formulas as a substitute for cow's milk formulas and to present new alternative feeding modalities in this field. Related articles in PubMed (National Library of Medicine) were reviewed. This review is a synthesis of these sources along with the discussions with experts in this field and the expert opinion of the authors. Soy protein-based and hydrolyzed milk protein formulas are the most commonly used alternative protein sources in the case of bovine protein allergy. Despite the adequacy of their nutritional values, there are still some problems to be solved regarding these formulas. In addition, a considerable percentage of the infants with bovine protein allergy may also present allergenic reactions to soy proteins as well as to hydrolyzed milk proteins. Thus, there still exists chaos in the selection of the most appropriate formula for infants sensitized to cow's milk protein. Rice protein-based formulas, probiotics, and prebiotics are expected to be new effective alternatives. Bovine protein allergy constitutes an important place in childhood food allergies. Soy protein-based and hydrolyzed protein formulas have some disadvantages and risk of allergenic activity that is not to be underestimated. So, substitution of cow's milk protein with an alternative protein source in sensitized infants has become an art rather than a science. Rice protein, prebiotics, and probiotics appear to be valuable alternatives giving hope for the future.
12491098	The genome of Rice grassy stunt virus (RGSV) consists of 6 ambisense RNA segments, among which RNAs 1, 2, 5 and 6 are equivalent to RNAs 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively, of Rice stripe virus, the type species of the genus Tenuivirus. The RGSV 36-kDa nucleocapsid protein (N) is encoded on the complementary strand of RNA 5. Here, we studied accumulation of three nonstructural proteins, a 23-kDa p2 protein encoded on vRNA 2 (virus genomic strand), a 22-kDa p5 protein encoded on vRNA 5, and a 21-kDa p6 protein encoded on vRNA 6, from RGSV-infected rice leaf tissues and from viruliferous vector insects (brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens) by Western blot analyses. p2, p5 and p6 were detected from RGSV-infected rice leaf homogenates; p2 was detected mostly in the cytoplasmic soluble fraction but also a small amount was detected in the cell-wall, organelle-enriched and crude membrane fractions; p5 and p6 were detected from the cytoplasmic soluble fraction in large amounts. Among individual nymphs of N. lugens raised on RGSV-infected rice leaves, only 20% of insects were positive with the N protein. A large amount of p5 was detected from all the N-positive insects. Small amounts of p2 and p6 were detected only from a subset of the N- and p5-positive insects. p5 may have an essential role in virus infection in both plant and insect hosts, whereas p2 may function in plants such as a cell-to-cell movement protein.
1249124	Rice seedlings germinating in oxygen-deficient environments do not manifest visual evidence of seminal or adventitious root growth or normal leaf growth, the coleoptile being the only seedling structure to emerge under these environmental conditions. Microscopic evidence, however, shows that mitotic activity occurs in the different tissues comprising the shoots of the seedlings germinating under oxygen deficiency. Thus evidence is presented here which shows that mitotic activity in rice seedlings germinating in oxygen-deficient environments is not confined solely to the emerging coleoptiles of the germinating seedlings.
12491967	'Nam Roi' pummelo is a famous fruit tree in the Mekong Delta of Viet Nam. Therefore, in recent years, growers extended the cultured area because it guarantees a high income. As a consequence there is a high demand for planting material, and we studied the possibilities of vegetative propagation by cuttings during the period from March 1999 to February 2000. The results of our study showed that a rice husk substrate was better than sand, and that naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) 1000 ppm stimulated rooting (84% rooted). The type of cutting was also a factor affecting the success rate; we studied three types of cuttings.
12492648	Australia's food and health patterns are inextricably and increasingly linked with Asia. Indigenous Australians arrived in the continent via Asia and have linguistic connections with people who settled in south India; there was interaction and food trade between both South-East Asia and China and northern indigenous Australians over thousands of years. After European settlement in 1788, there have been several and increasing (apart from the period of the infamous White Australian Policy following the Colonial period and Independence, with Federation, in 1901) waves of Asian migration, notably during the gold rush (Chinese), the building of the overland Telegraph (Afghans), the Colombo Plan and Asian student education in Australia from the 1950s onwards (South-Eeast Asians), and with refugees (Vietnamese and mainland Chinese), and business (late twentieth century) and progressive family reunion. Each wave has injected additional food cultural elements and caused a measure of health change for migrants and host citizens. Of principal advantage to Australia has been the progressive diversification of the food supply and associated health protection. This has increased food security and sustainability. The process of Australian eating patterns becoming Asianized is evident through market garden development (and the introduction of new foods), fresh food markets and groceries, restaurants and the development of household cooking skills (often taught by student boarders). Most of the diversification has been with grain (rice), legumes (soy), greens, root vegetables, and various 'exotic fruits'. Food acculturation with migration is generally bi-directional. Thus, for Asians in Australia, there has been a decrease in energy expenditure (and a lower plane of energy throughput), an increase in food energy density (through increased fat and sugary drink intakes), and a decrease in certain health protective foods (lentils, soy, greens) and beverages (tea). This sets the stage for 'eco-diseases'. In a population probably genetically programmed (but modifiably) in utero to abdominal obesity, diabetes (type II and gestational) and cardiovascular disease, these conditions may be rapidly acquired on migration, along with certain cancers (breast, colo-rectal and prostate). Thus, whilst Asian migration to Australia has provided health opportunities for host citizens, there have been threats to migrant citizens in regard to nutrition-related health.
12492836	Plant growth is regulated by bioactive gibberellin (GA), although there is an unexplained diversity in the magnitude of the GA responses exhibited by different plant species. GA acts via a group of orthologous proteins known as the DELLA proteins. The Arabidopsis genome contains genes encoding five different DELLA proteins, the best known of which are GAI and RGA. The DELLA proteins are thought to act as repressors of GA-regulated processes, whilst GA is thought to act as a negative regulator of DELLA protein function. Recent experiments have shown that GA induces rapid disappearance of nuclear RGA, SLR1 and SLN1 (DELLA proteins from rice and barley), suggesting that GA signalling and degradation of DELLA proteins are coupled. However, RGL1, another Arabidopsis DELLA protein, does not disappear from the nucleus in response to GA treatment. Here, we present evidence suggesting that GAI, like RGL1, is stable in response to GA treatment, and show that transgenic Arabidopsis plants containing constructs that enable high-level expression of GAI exhibit a dwarf, GA non-responsive phenotype. Thus, GAI appears to be less affected by GA than RGA, SLR1 or SLN1. We also show that neither of the two putative nuclear localisation signals contained in DELLA proteins are individually necessary for nuclear localisation of GAI. The various DELLA proteins have different properties, and we suggest that this functional diversity may explain, at least in part, why plant species differ widely in their GA response magnitudes.
12492837	rsw3 is a temperature-sensitive mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana showing radially swollen roots and a deficiency in cellulose. The rsw3 gene was identified by a map-based strategy, and shows high similarity to the catalytic alpha-subunits of glucosidase II from mouse, yeast and potato. These enzymes process N-linked glycans in the ER, so that they bind and then release chaperones as part of the quality control pathway, ensuring correct protein folding. Putative beta-subunits for the glucosidase II holoenzyme identified in the Arabidopsis and rice genomes share characteristic motifs (including an HDEL ER-retention signal) with beta-subunits in mammals and yeast. The genes encoding the putative alpha- and beta-subunits are single copy and, like the rsw3 phenotype, widely expressed. rsw3 reduces cell number more strongly than cell size in stamen filaments and probably stems. Most features of the rsw3 phenotype are shared with other cellulose-deficient mutants, but some--notably, production of multiple rosettes and a lack of secreted seed mucilage--are not and may reflect glucosidase II affecting processes other than cellulose synthesis. The rsw3 root phenotype develops more slowly than the rsw1 and rsw2 phenotypes when seedlings are transferred to the restrictive temperature. This is consistent with rsw3 reducing glycoprotein delivery from the ER to the plasma membrane whereas rsw1 and rsw2 act more rapidly by affecting the properties of already delivered enzymes.
12493241	The spectacular increases in wheat and rice yields during the 'Green Revolution', were enabled by the introduction of dwarfing traits into the plants. Now, identification of the genes responsible for these traits shows that they interfere with the action or production of the gibberellin (GA) plant hormones. We knew that the wheat Rht genes encode growth repressors that are normally suppressed by GA, and recent work shows that the rice sd1 gene encodes a defective enzyme in the GA-biosynthetic pathway.
12493846	The majority of terrestrial plants, including many important crops such as rice, wheat, soybean, and potato, are classified as C(3) plants that assimilate atmospheric CO(2) directly through the C(3) photosynthetic pathway. C(4) plants, such as maize and sugarcane, evolved from C(3) plants, acquiring the C(4) photosynthetic pathway in addition to the C(3) pathway to achieve high photosynthetic performance and high water- and nitrogen-use efficiencies. Consequently, the transfer of C(4) traits to C(3) plants is one strategy being adopted for improving the photosynthetic performance of C(3) plants. The recent application of recombinant DNA technology has made considerable progress in the molecular engineering of photosynthetic genes in the past ten years. It has deepened understanding of the evolutionary scenario of the C(4) photosynthetic genes. The strategy, based on the evolutionary scenario, has enabled enzymes involved in the C(4) pathway to be expressed at high levels and in desired locations in the leaves of C(3) plants. Although overproduction of a single C(4) enzyme can alter the carbon metabolism of C(3) plants, it does not show any positive effects on photosynthesis. Transgenic C(3) plants overproducing multiple enzymes are now being produced for improving the photosynthetic performance of C(3) plants.
12493850	Sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 lacks all of the Ser residues known to be involved in the regulation of higher plant SPS by protein phosphorylation. The Synechocystis SPS is also not allosterically regulated by glucose 6-phosphate or orthophosphate. To investigate the effects of expressing a potentially unregulated SPS in plants, the Synechocystis sps gene was introduced into tobacco, rice and tomato under the control of constitutive promoters. The Synechocystis SPS protein was expressed at a high level in the plants, which should have been sufficient to increase overall SPS activity 2-8-fold in the leaves. However, SPS activities and carbon partitioning in leaves from transgenic and wild-type plants were not significantly different. The maximal light-saturated rates of photosynthesis in leaves from tomato plants expressing the Synechocystis SPS were the same as those from wild-type plants. Tomato plants expressing the maize SPS showed 2-3-fold increases in SPS activity, increased partitioning of photoassimilate to sucrose and up to 58% higher maximal rates of photosynthesis. To investigate the apparent inactivity of the Synechocystis SPS the enzyme was purified from transgenic tobacco and rice plants. Surprisingly, the purified enzyme was found to have full catalytic activity. It is proposed that some other protein in plant cells binds to the Synechocystis SPS resulting in inhibition of the enzyme.
12495587	The mammalian pineal hormone melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine), an aminoindole produced by the metabolism of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), has been shown to be a potent scavenger for the highly toxic hydroxyl radical. Three substances that are very important in animal physiology (e.g., in brain metabolism) are noradrenaline, histamine, and serotonin; all three occur in plants. Here we report that serotonin, tryptamine, and melatonin were found in some edible and medicinal plants in Egypt. The results of this screening showed that the pulp of underripe and ripe yellow banana contains 5-hydroxytryptamine at concentrations of 31.4 and 18.5 ng/g, respectively. Corn, rice, barley grains, and ginger showed the highest concentrations of melatonin, at 187.8, 149.8, 87.3, 142.3 ng/100 g, respectively. On the other hand, potato samples were free from all indolamines. Pomegranate and strawberry showed a low level of indolamines (8-12 microg/g serotonin, 4-9 microg/g tryptamine, and 13-29 ng/100 g melatonin).
12496251	Editing of the amino acid homocysteine (Hcy) by certain aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases results in the formation of an intramolecular thioester, Hcy-thiolactone. Here we show that the plant yellow lupin, Lupinus luteus, has the ability to synthesize Hcy-thiolactone. The inhibition of methylation of Hcy to methionine by the anitifolate drug aminopterin results in greatly enhanced synthesis of Hcy-thiolactone by L. luteus plants. Methionine inhibits the synthesis of Hcy-thiolactone in L. luteus, suggesting involvement of methionyl-tRNA synthetase. Consistent with this suggestion is our finding that the plant Oryza sativa methionyl-tRNA synthetase, expressed in Escherichia coli, catalyzes conversion of Hcy to Hcy-thiolactone. We also show that Hcy is a component of L. luteus proteins, most likely due to facile reaction of Hcy-thiolactone with protein amino groups. In addition, L. luteus possesses constitutively expressed, highly specific Hcy-thiolactone-hydrolyzing enzyme. Thus, Hcy-thiolactone and Hcy bound to protein by an amide (or peptide) linkage (Hcy-N-protein) are significant components of plant Hcy metabolism.
12498345	Derived from candidate sequences of a barley EST database two proteins with homology to the coiled coil region of the human kinetochore protein (KP) CENP-E were generated and classified as centromere protein E-like 1 and 2 (Cpell and Cpe12). Specific antibodies produced against recombinant Cpe11 and Cpe12 proteins labeled the centromere on mitotic chromosomes of barley and field bean and recognized specifically proteins from nuclear/chromosomal protein extracts on immunoblots. No function was predicted for homologues of Cpe11 within the databases for Arabidopsis and rice genomes. However, the centromeric location of Cpe11 and Cpe12 suggests they may have a function within the kinetochore. Plant homologues to barley Cpe12 are N-type kinesins, suggesting that Cpe12 is functionally homologous to human CENP-E.
12498569	Approximately 2,800 fresh dung samples from animals, mainly ruminant livestock, were screened for the presence of nematophagous fungi in Malaysia. Arthrobotrys spp. was noted on numerous occasions, but only one isolate of Duddingtonia flagrans was made. For the purposes of producing sufficient quantities of this fungus for feeding trials in sheep, various, commonly available, cheap plant materials were tested as possible growth substrates. This showed that cereal grains (wheat, millet and rice) were the best media for fungal growth. Pen feeding trials were carried out using sheep, both naturally and experimentally infected with nematode parasites (predominantely Haemonchus contortus), to test the efficiency of D. flagrans when administered either in a grain supplement, or incorporated into a feed block. These showed that the fungus survived gut passage in sheep and that dose rates of approximately 1 x 10(6) D. flagrans spores / animal / day, reduced the percentage of infective larvae developing in faecal cultures by more than 90%. These results indicate that using D. flagrans as a biological control agent of nematode parasites, is a promising alternative to nematode parasite control of small ruminants in Malaysia, where anthelmintic resistance is now a major problem.
12499338	Muscle tissue from various sources is known to promote nonheme-iron absorption. However, systematic studies of the dose dependency of this effect of meat on iron absorption from an inhibitory meal with low amounts of meat are lacking. We investigated the dose-response effect of small amounts of meat on nonheme-iron absorption from a meal presumed to have low iron bioavailability. Forty-five healthy women with a mean (+/-SD) age of 24 +/- 3 y were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups, each of which was served (A) a basic meal (rice, tomato sauce, pea purée, and a wheat roll) and (B) the basic meal with either 25, 50, or 75 g pork (longissimus muscle). Meal A contained 2.3 mg nonheme iron, 7.4 mg vitamin C, and 220 mg (358 micro mol) phytate. Each meal was served twice, and the order of the meals was ABBA or BAAB. The meals were extrinsically labeled with (55)Fe or (59)Fe. Iron absorption was determined from measurements of (59)Fe whole-body retention and the activity of (55)Fe and (59)Fe in blood samples. Twenty-five grams meat did not increase nonheme-iron absorption significantly (P = 0.13), whereas absorption increased 44% (P < 0.001) and 57% (P < 0.001), respectively, when 50 and 75 g meat were added to the basic meal. In absolute values, this corresponds to an absorption that was 2.6% and 3.4% higher, respectively, than that with the basic meal after adjustment of the data to a level of 40% absorption from a reference dose. Small amounts of meat (>or=50 g) significantly increase nonheme-iron absorption from a phytate-rich meal low in vitamin C.
12501258	Leptospirosis is not commonly reported from the Salem district in central Tamil Nadu in India. In October 2000, a rice mill worker, who had fever and jaundice, tested positive in leptospiral IgM enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Microbiological and serological investigations were performed on the patient, a sample population of the rice mill workers, and the animal and rodent populations living in the same premises. Leptospira was isolated from the patient about 2 weeks after the onset of symptoms when he had recovered from illness following a course of doxycycline. The isolate was serovar Icterohaemorrhagiae of serogroup Icterohaemorrhagiae. The patient also showed a fourfold rise in titers in microscopic agglutination test (MAT) and IgG ELISA. The rice mill workers had a seroprevalence rate of 68.3%, which was significantly higher than that among a control group consisting of persons engaged in other occupations. Serological studies conducted among cattle, dogs, cats, and rats showed seroprevalence rates of 52.9%, 50.0%, 66.6%, and 52.1%, respectively. Leptospires were isolated from two rats, but the isolates were lost during subculturing and could not be characterized. The most predominant serogroup identified by MAT was Autumnalis for rice mill workers and all animal populations. The other serogroups that reacted in MAT were Icterohaemorrhagiae, Australis, Grippotyphosa, and Patoc. Although Australis and Grippotyphosa showed agglutination in the case of human samples, none of the animals had detectable titers to these serogroups. The rice mills of Salem, having large rodent populations, various animals living in close proximity, a wet environment, and unprotected exposure of the workers to the environment, constitutes an ideal setting for transmission of leptospirosis and could be an epidemiological niche of leptospirosis.
12501847
12502849	Posttranscriptional silencing of a green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgene in Nicotiana benthamiana plants was suppressed when these plants were infected with Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), a plant-infecting member of the BUNYAVIRIDAE: Infection with TSWV resulted in complete reactivation of GFP expression, similar to the case for Potato virus Y, but distinct from that for Cucumber mosaic virus, two viruses known to carry genes encoding silencing suppressor proteins. Agrobacterium-based leaf injections with individual TSWV genes identified the NS(S) gene to be responsible for the RNA silencing-suppressing activity displayed by this virus. The absence of short interfering RNAs in NS(S)-expressing leaf sectors suggests that the tospoviral NS(S) protein interferes with the intrinsic RNA silencing present in plants. Suppression of RNA silencing was also observed when the NS3 protein of the Rice hoja blanca tenuivirus, a nonenveloped negative-strand virus, was expressed. These results indicate that plant-infecting negative-strand RNA viruses carry a gene for a suppressor of RNA silencing.
12503403	Polyclonal antibodies against purified Rhizoctonia solani toxin obtained from infected rice sheath tissues (sheath blight toxin, SBT) and culture filtrates (culture filtrate toxin, CFT) were developed in rabbit and chicken. The IgG was isolated from serum and egg yolk of rabbit and chicken, respectively, and their specificity was investigated by indirect ELISA. Antibodies developed against CFT and SBT in rabbits exhibited relatively higher titer values when compared to chicken antibodies. Positive correlation was observed between the degree of sheath blighting and the levels of antigens induced by each isolate during sheath blight symptom development as detected by rabbit SBT antibody and the isolate RS7 was identified as most virulent. Optimization of incubation period for maximum toxin production in liquid medium and rice sheaths indicated that the production of CFT and SBT is maximum after 15 d and 6 d of pathogen inoculation. Studies of the possible translocation of RS-toxin in rice plants upon inoculation with R. solani showed downward translocation as detected by rabbit/chicken SBT antibodies. Since plant inoculation required a higher concentration of inoculum and maintenance of plants, serological assay by ELISA is more sensitive than whole-plant assays in detecting RS-toxin, with the advantage that ELISA also allows rapid determination of RS-toxin production.
12503656	To develop an iron rich supplement with locally available foods and to test its feasibility in school going children (7-9 Years) belonging to low income families. From the upper primary school in Rajendranagar 7-9 year-old children were screened for hemoglobin (Hb) levels and 36 children having Hb levels below 11 g/dl were selected. Based on their Hb levels, age, and gender, 24 children were grouped as experimental and the rest as control. A supplement food (laddoo) was developed using locally available foods like jaggery, processed rice flakes, graden cress seeds and amaranth seeds (45:40:10.5). In the experimental group, children were given one laddoo per day for a period of 60 days. Effect of supplement on Hb levels, height and weight was assessed. Anthropometric parameters showed that 97% of these children were undernourished, majority (50%) were in grade II malnutrition followed by grade (25%) and grade II (22%). A significant increase in Hb levels was observed in both the boys and girls after 30 days of supplementation only. The increase was comparatively more in the first 30 days than the second 30 days. The overall increase in Hb levels was more in 7-8 years than the 8-9 years age group. In majority of the subjects progression from one Hb level to the next higher level was observed. There was no significant improvement in their height and weight. The product developed contributed around 39-mg% iron. Thus its efficacy as an iron rich supplement in combating iron deficiency anemia is reflected in the results obtained.
12503761	Outdoor pools (2.3 x 2.3 m) were used to simulate typical rice agricultural practices in Louisiana, USA, to evaluate the toxicity of ICON (active ingredient [a.i.] fipronil) and its degradates to crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). Six paddies were planted with seed treated with ICON 6.2 FS at an exaggerated application rate of 0.05 kg a.i./ha (recommended rate, 0.042 kg a.i./ha), simulating three rice-planting scenarios. Two reference paddies were planted with untreated seed. Crayfish were exposed to tail water within 24 to 48 h after seeding, simulating standard Louisiana agricultural and water management practices. At 50 d after planting, a separate group of crayfish was caged in situ for 14 d to evaluate toxicity. An additional 50 crayfish were added to two paddies approximately 100 d after rice planting and held for 29 weeks to evaluate bioaccumulation. Residues of fipronil and its degradates in water and soil were similar to residue concentrations measured from rice fields in Louisiana. Tail water from the treated paddies was not toxic to crayfish. The fipronil 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) for adult crayfish was 180 microg/L, which would provide at least a sixfold safety factor between the maximum fipronil concentration in tail water and the crayfish LC50. In situ exposures of crayfish also were not toxic. Concentrations of fipronil and its degradates after 29 weeks of exposure were less than 5 microg/kg in crayfish tail muscle tissue. These results demonstrate that label instructions adequately protect crayfish in a rice-crayfish cropping scenario when ICON is applied at maximum application rates as a seed treatment.
12503767	Water samples were collected on three dates at 24 sites influenced by effluent from Georgia-Pacific's Palatka Pulp and Paper Mill Operation, a bleached and unbleached kraft mill near Palatka, Florida, USA. The sampling sites were located within the mill retention ponds, Rice Creek, and the St. John's River. Samples were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for abietic, dehydroabietic, and isopimaric acids, all of which are potentially toxic by-products of pulp production. Isopimaric acid concentrations greater than 12 mg/L were measured at the mill's effluent outfall but were less than 20 microg/L at the end of Rice Creek. This result indicates that the waters of Rice Creek provide dilution or conditions conducive for degradation or sorption of these compounds. Large differences in resin acid concentrations were observed between sampling events. In two sampling events, the maximum observed concentrations were less than 2 mg/L for each analyte. In a third sampling event, all of the compounds were detected at concentrations greater than 10 mg/L. Data from the three sample dates showed that resin acid concentrations were below 20 microg/L before the confluence of Rice Creek and the St. John's River in all cases.
12503882	A three-year surveillance program assessed the extent of mycotoxin contamination of key foods and feeds grown in Bangladesh. The study also included groundnuts utilized as snack food. In the first two phases of the program the samples collected were analyzed only for aflatoxins, but in the third phase, as well as for aflatoxins, samples were tested for the presence of fumonisin B1, ochratoxin A, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, and T-2 toxin. Of the foods and feeds tested, the incidence of aflatoxin contamination varied from low (rice collected from farmers' stores, 8%) to high (maize, 67%). However, both the average total aflatoxin contents (< 1.0 microg/kg) and the maximum aflatoxin B1 contents (< or = 5.0 microg/kg) recorded for pulses, rice and its various products, and wheat were low. On the other hand, the levels of contamination of maize, roasted and raw groundnuts, and poultry feed were considerably higher, with average total aflatoxin B1 contents of 33, 13, 65, and 7 microg/kg, respectively, and maximum aflatoxin B1 contents of 245, 79, 480, and 160 microg/kg, respectively. Fumonisin B1, ochratoxin A, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, and T-2 toxin were found, to any significant extent, only in some of the maize samples tested, always accompanied by aflatoxins. One sample of maize contained five mycotoxins, namely, the aflatoxins, fumonisin B1, deoxynivalenol, zearalenone, and ochratoxin A. In a limited trial using hospital staff in Dhaka, the analysis of the aflatoxin-albumin adduct in serum showed that approximately half of the test group had been recently exposed to low levels of aflatoxins.
12505185	A field study was carried out in the large-scale rice irrigation scheme of the Office du Niger in Mali to investigate the relation between anopheline mosquito larval development and small-scale differences in irrigation practices, such as water level, irrigation application and irrigation frequency. The objective of the study was to find out if water management can be used as a tool for vector control to reduce the malaria transmission risk. Larvae of Anopheles gambiae s.s.,; the main malaria vector in the study area, developed mostly in the first 6 weeks after transplanting the rice. During rice development, a succession of anopheline species was observed. This was associated with a marked decrease in light intensity reaching the water surface as plant height increased. Minor differences in water management resulted in noticeable variations in larval densities and species composition. A. gambiae s.s. larvae were most abundant during the early growing stages and almost absent in a closed rice crop. Due to improper drainage after harvest, A. gambiae s.s. breeding was soon re-established in fields where small pools of water were retained. The results suggest that larval mosquito habitats in the Office du Niger can be significantly reduced by water management, simultaneous planting and harvesting and proper drainage of fallow fields.
12505354	Risk assessment methods of developed countries have prescribed exposure assumptions for calculating health risks that are generally inappropriate for developing countries because of population, cultural, and social differences. For example, populations in developing countries are often subsistence users of natural resources with a more outdoor-oriented lifestyle. Assessments should thus measure specific dietary intake rates and contact rates with environmental media. Chemical analyses of food, environmental media, and any biomarkers of exposure should include a carefully matched reference population to distinguish between exposures due to naturally occurring metals in more mineralized areas and potential anthropogenic sources. Without a reference group, one might predict excess risk associated with the external source, even though exposure is due to background levels. For example, subsistence populations often have a simple diet with high ingestion rates of a few food types (e.g. 200 g/day wet weight of fish; 500 g/day of rice). These foods can be naturally elevated in arsenic (fish and rice) and mercury (fish). Conservative risk assessments that extrapolate toxicity from high to low doses can predict elevated risks for these naturally occurring elements (e.g. greater than 1 in 10,000 cancer risk for arsenic). Whether the calculated risks are actually indicative of harm to subsistence populations should be considered in light of the beneficial properties of the diet and the lack of alternative food choices.
12506001	We analyzed recessive mutants of two homeotic genes in rice, SUPERWOMAN1 (SPW1) and DROOPING LEAF (DL). The homeotic mutation spw1 transforms stamens and lodicules into carpels and palea-like organs, respectively. Two spw1 alleles, spw1-1 and spw1-2, show the same floral phenotype and did not affect vegetative development. We show that SPW1 is a rice APETALA3 homolog, OsMADS16. In contrast, two strong alleles of the dl locus, drooping leaf-superman1 (dl-sup1) and drooping leaf-superman2 (dl-sup2), cause the complete transformation of the gynoecium into stamens. In these strong mutants, many ectopic stamens are formed in the region where the gynoecium is produced in the wild-type flower and they are arranged in a non-whorled, alternate pattern. The intermediate allele dl-1 (T65), results in an increase in the number of stamens and stigmas, and carpels occasionally show staminoid characteristics. In the weakest mutant, dl-2, most of the flowers are normal. All four dl alleles cause midrib-less drooping leaves. The flower of the double mutant, spw1 dl-sup, produces incompletely differentiated organs indefinitely after palea-like organs are produced in the position where lodicules are formed in the wild-type flower. These incompletely differentiated organs are neither stamens nor carpels, but have partial floral identity. Based on genetic and molecular results, we postulate a model of stamen and carpel specification in rice, with DL as a novel gene controlling carpel identity and acting mutually and antagonistically to the class B gene, SPW1.
12507518	We report isolation of two novel rice (Oryza sativa L.) mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), OsMSRMK3 (multiple stress responsive) and OsWJUMK1 (wound- and JA-uninducible) that most likely exist as single copy genes in its genome. OsMSRMK3 and OsWJUMK1 encode 369 and 569 amino acid polypeptides having the MAPK family signature and phosphorylation activation motifs TEY and TDY, respectively. Steady state mRNA analyses of these MAPKs with constitutive expression in leaves of two-week-old seedlings revealed that OsMSRMK3 was up-regulated upon wounding (by cut), jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), ethylene, abscisic acid, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), protein phosphatase inhibitors, chitosan, high salt/sugar, and heavy metals, whereas OsWJUMK1 not induced by either wounding, JA or SA, showed up-regulation only by H(2)O(2), heavy metals, and cold stress (12 degrees C). Moreover, these MAPKs were developmentally regulated. These results strongly suggest a role for OsMSRMK3 and OsWJUMK1 in both stress-signalling pathways and development in rice.
12507870	A bacterial strain capable of producing a thermo-acido-tolerant phytase was isolated from soil around haystacks and designated as strain PH01. The phytase produced was purified to homogeneity as determined by native PAGE. From SDS-PAGE, it was 30 kDa in size. The purified phytase was a thermo-acido-tolerant enzyme. A complex medium for the PH01 phytase production was developed. The medium, "PheB", was composed of 2% glucose, 0.2% CaCl(2), 0.5% NH(4)NO(3), 0.05% KCl, 0.05% MgSO(4).7H(2)O, 0.001% FeSO(4).7H(2)O, 0.001% MnSO(4).H(2)O in rice bran plus soybean meal extract containing 3% (v/v) phosphate solution (7.3% NaHPO(4)+3.2%KH(2)PO(4), pH 7.2). Cultivation was done at 37 degrees C with aeration for 48 h which produced phytase at 10 U/ml. Exposure of the phytase to 1% bile salt; i.e., taurocholate or deoxycholate, caused less than 15% reduction of activity. Potential application of PH01 phytase as a feed supplement was suggested.
12508870	A total of 26 strains, including 15 strains isolated from garlic plants with the typical symptoms of 'Café au lait' disease and 11 strains isolated from diseased or healthy rice seeds and sheaths infested by Pseudomonas fuscovaginae, were compared with 70 type or reference strains of oxidase-positive pathogenic or non-pathogenic fluorescent pseudomonads. The strains were characterized by using a polyphasic taxonomic approach. Numerical taxonomy of phenotypic characteristics showed that the garlic and rice strains were related to each other. However, they clustered into separate phenons, distinct from those of the other strains tested, and were different in several nutritional tests. On the basis of DNA-DNA hybridization, the garlic and rice strains constituted two distinct DNA hybridization groups, indicating that they belonged to separate species. The two groups of strains were also well differentiated by siderotyping. Garlic strains were pathogenic to garlic plants and either weakly pathogenic or non-pathogenic on rice; rice strains were either weakly pathogenic or non-pathogenic on rice and non-pathogenic on garlic. A phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences confirmed that the two groups of strains belonged to the y-Proteobacteria and to the genus Pseudomonas. The names Pseudomonas salomonii sp. nov. and Pseudomonas palleroniana sp. nov. are respectively proposed for the garlic strains and the rice strains. The type strains are P. salomonii CFBP 2022(T) (= ICMP 14252(T) = NCPPB 4277(T)) and P. palleroniana CFBP 4389(T) (= ICMP 14253(T) = NCPPB 4278(T)).
12509054	Rice husk ash (RHA) obtained from a rice mill in Kenya has been used as an inexpensive and effective adsorbent (and reagent) for the removal (and detection) of some phenolic compounds in water. The abundantly available rice mill waste was used in dual laboratory-scale batch experiments to evaluate its potential in: (i) the removal of phenol, 1,3-dihydroxybenzene (resorcinol) and 2-chlorophenol from water; and (ii) the detection of 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (pyrocatechol) and 1,2,3-trihydroxybenzene (pyrogallol) present in an aqueous medium. The studies were conducted using synthetic water with different initial concentrations of the phenolic compounds. The effects of different operating conditions (such as contact time, concentration of the phenolic compounds, adsorbent quantity, temperature, and pH) were assessed by evaluating the phenolic compound removal efficiency as well as the extent of their color formation reactions (where applicable). RHA exhibits reasonable adsorption capacity for the phenolic compounds and follows both Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm models. Adsorption capacities of 1.53 x 10(-4), 8.07 x 10(-5), and 1.63 x 10(-6) mol g(-1) were determined for phenol, resorcinol and 2-chlorophenol, respectively. Nearly 100% adsorption of the phenolic compounds was possible and this depended on the weight of RHA employed. For the detection experiments, pyrocatechol and pyrogallol present in water formed coloured complexes with RHA, with the rate of colour formation increasing with temperature, weight of RHA, concentration of the phenolic compounds and sonication. This study has proven that RHA is a useful agricultural waste product for the removal and detection of some phenolic compounds.
12509135	As the world population continues to increase, food supplies must also grow to meet nutritional requirements. One means of ensuring the stability and plentitude of the food supply is to mitigate crop loss caused by plant pathogens. Strategies for combating disease include traditional technologies such as plant breeding and chemical applications; current technologies such as generating transgenic plants that express components of known defense signaling pathways; and the adaptation of newer technologies such as RNA silencing of pathogen and plant transcripts. Breeding has been used to pyramid resistance (R) genes into many different plants including rice. Chemical strategies include application of salicylic acid (SA) analogs to stimulate systemic acquired resistance (SAR) responses. Genetic screens in Arabidopsis have identified genes controlling SAR and these genes have been manipulated and used to engineer crop plants. The diseases caused by plant viruses are being thwarted through the initiation of endogenous RNA silencing mechanisms. Many of these strategies show great promise, some limitations, and exciting opportunities to develop many new tools for combating plant pests.
12509335	Tolerance to low oxygen availability is likely to be due to the interaction of several factors. Sugar availability is one of the elements required to support anaerobic metabolism. In cereal grains the availability of soluble sugars is limited, while starch is stored in large amounts. Degradation of starch under anoxia is therefore needed to avoid sugar starvation leading to rapid cell death. The striking difference in the ability to produce alpha-amylase when comparing the anoxia-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa L.) grains with grains of other cereals is not easily explained. Rice is able to respond to gibberellins under anoxia, but the response is too slow to explain the rapid production of alpha-amylase enzyme. In the present work we demonstrated that alpha-amylase production during the first 2 d after imbibition is mostly due to the activity of the Ramy3D gene, encoding for the G and H isoforms of alpha-amylase. The induction of Ramy3D transcription is likely to result from a low sugar content in the grains incubated under anoxia. The ability of rice embryos to sense sugars under anoxia is reported.
12509343	Rice plants are much damaged by several days of total submergence. The effect can be a serious problem for rice farmers in the rainfed lowlands of Asia, and runs contrary to a widespread belief amongst plant biologists that rice is highly tolerant of submergence. This article assesses the characteristics of the underwater environment that may damage rice plants, examines various physiological mechanisms of injury, and reviews recent progress achieved using linkage mapping to locate quantitative traits loci (QTL) for tolerance inherited from a submergence-tolerant cultivar FR13A. Progress towards identifying the gene(s) involved through physical mapping of a dominant tolerance locus on chromosome 9 is also summarized. Available physiological evidence points away from responses to oxygen shortage as being inextricably involved in submergence injury. An imbalance between production and consumption of assimilates is seen as being especially harmful, and is exacerbated by strongly accelerated leaf extension and leaf senescence that are ethylene-mediated and largely absent from FR13A and related cultivars. DNA markers for a major QTL for tolerance are shown to be potentially useful in breeding programmes designed to improve submergence tolerance.
12509344	Flash flooding of young rice plants is a common problem for rice farmers in south and south-east Asia. It severely reduces grain yield and increases the unpredictability of cropping. The inheritance and expression of traits associated with submergence stress tolerance at the seedling stage are physiologically and genetically complex. We exploited naturally occurring differences between certain rice lines in their tolerance to submergence and used quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping to improve understanding of the genetic and physiological basis of submergence tolerance. Three rice populations, each derived from a single cross between two cultivars differing in their response to submergence, were used to identify QTL associated with plant survival and various linked traits. These included total shoot elongation under water, the extent of stimulation of shoot elongation caused by submergence, a visual submergence tolerance score, and leaf senescence under different field conditions, locations and years. Several major QTL determining plant survival, plant height, stimulation of shoot elongation, visual tolerance score and leaf senescence each mapped to the same locus on chromosome 9. These QTL were detected consistently in experiments across all years and in the genetic backgrounds of all three mapping populations. Secondary QTL influencing tolerance were also identified and located on chromosomes 1, 2, 5, 7, 10 and 11. These QTL were specific to particular traits, environments, or genetic backgrounds. All identified QTL contributed to increased submergence tolerance through their effects on decreased underwater shoot elongation or increased maintenance of chlorophyll levels, or on both. These findings establish the foundations of a marker-assisted scheme for introducing submergence tolerance into agriculturally desirable cultivars of rice.
12509345	Submergence tolerance is an important agronomic trait for rice grown in South-East Asia, where flash flooding occurs frequently and unpredictably during the monsoons. Although mapping locations of one major and several minor quantitative trait loci (QTL) were known previously, improving submergence tolerance in agronomically desirable types of rice has not been achieved. KDML105 is jasmine rice widely grown in rain-fed lowland regions of Thailand. This cultivar is very intolerant of submergence stress. To improve submergence tolerance in this cultivar, three submergence-tolerant cultivars, FR13A, IR67819F2-CA-61 and IR49830-7-1-2-2, were cross-pollinated with KDML105. Transferring the major QTL for submergence tolerance was facilitated by four back-crossings to the recipient KDML105. Molecular markers tightly linked to the gene(s) involved were developed to facilitate molecular genotyping. We demonstrated that individuals of a BC4F3 line that retained a critical region on chromosome 9 transferred from tolerant lines were also tolerant of complete submergence while retaining all the agronomically desirable traits of KDML105. In addition, effects of secondary QTLch2 were detected statistically in back-cross progenies. Effects of secondary QTLch7 were not statistically significant. The close association between tightly linked markers of the tolerance locus on chromosome 9 and submergence tolerance in the field demonstrates the considerable promise of using these markers in lowland rice breeding programmes for selecting increased submergence tolerance.
12509346	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is the only cereal that can be cultivated in the frequently flooded river deltas of South-East and South Asia. The survival strategies used by rice have been studied quite extensively and the role of several phytohormones in the elongation response has been established. Deep-water rice cultivars can diminish flooding stress by rapid elongation of their submerged tissues to keep up with the rising waters. Other rice cultivars may react by mechanisms of submergence tolerance. Aerenchyma and aerenchymatous adventitious roots are formed that facilitate oxygen diffusion to prevent anaerobic conditions in the submerged tissues. This paper discusses the molecular aspects of the mechanism that leads to shoot elongation (leaves of seedlings and internodes), the regulation of which involves metabolism of, and interactions between, ethylene, gibberellins and abscisic acid. Finally, the importance of new techniques in future research is assessed. Current molecular technology can reveal subtle differences in gene activity between tolerant and non-tolerant cultivars, and identify genes that are involved in the regulation of submergence avoidance and tolerance.
12509347	This study evaluated the effects of anoxia on K(+) uptake and translocation in 3-4-d-old, intact, rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L. cv. Calrose). Rates of net K(+) uptake from the medium over 24 h by coleoptiles of anoxic seedlings were inhibited by 83-91 %, when compared with rates in aerated seedlings. Similar uptake rates, and degree of inhibition due to anoxia, were found for Rb(+) when supplied over 1.5-2 h, starting 22 h after imposing anoxia. The Rb(+) uptake indicated that intact coleoptiles take up ions directly from the external solution. Monovalent cation (K(+) and Rb(+)) net uptake from the solution was inhibited by anoxia to the same degree for the coleoptiles of intact seedlings and for coleoptiles excised, 'aged', and supplied with exogenous glucose. Transport of endogenous K(+) from caryopses to coleoptiles was inhibited less by anoxia than net K(+) uptake from the solution, the inhibition being 55 % rather than 87 %. Despite these inhibitions, osmotic pressures of sap (pi(sap)) expressed from coleoptiles of seedlings exposed to 48 h of anoxia, with or without exogenous K(+), were 0.66 +/- 0.03 MPa; however, the contributions of K(+) to pi(sap) were 23 and 16 %, respectively. After 24 h of anoxia, the K(+) concentrations in the basal 10 mm of the coleoptiles of seedlings with or without exogenous K(+), were similar to those in aerated seedlings with exogenous K(+). In contrast, K(+) concentrations had decreased in aerated seedlings without exogenous K(+), presumably due to 'dilution' by growth; fresh weight gains of the coleoptile being 3.6- to 4.7-fold greater in aerated than in anoxic seedlings. Deposition rates of K(+) along the axes of the coleoptiles were calculated for the anoxic seedlings only, for which we assessed the elongation zone to be only the basal 4 mm. K(+) deposition in the basal 6 mm was similar for seedlings with or without exogenous K(+), at 0.6-0.87 micro mol g(-1) f. wt h(-1). Deposition rates in zones above 6 mm from the base were greater for seedlings with, than without, exogenous K(+); the latter were sometimes negative. We conclude that for the coleoptiles of rice seedlings, anoxia inhibits net K(+) uptake from the external solution to a much larger extent than K(+) translocation from the caryopses. Furthermore, K(+) concentrations in the elongation zone of the coleoptiles of anoxic seedlings were maintained to a remarkable degree, contributing to maintenance of pi(sap) in cells of these elongating tissues.
12509348	Rice plants are severely damaged by complete submergence. This is a problem in rice farming and could be the result, in part, of tissue anoxia imposed by a reduced availability of oxygen. To investigate this possibility we monitored alcoholic fermentation products as markers for tissue anaerobiosis using sensitive laser-based spectroscopy able to sense ethanol and acetaldehyde down to 3 nl l(-1) and 0.1 nl l(-1), respectively. Acetaldehyde emission began within 0.5 h of imposing an oxygen-free gas phase environment followed closely by ethanol. As treatment progressed, ethanol output increased and came to exceed acetaldehyde emission as this stabilized considerably after approx. 3 h. On re-entry of air, a sharp post-anaerobic peak of acetaldehyde production was observed. This was found to be diagnostic of a preceding anoxic episode of 0.5 h or more. When anaerobiosis was lengthened by up to 14 h, the size of the post-anaerobic acetaldehyde outburst increased. After de-submergence from oxygen-free water, a similarly strong but slower post-anaerobic acetaldehyde upsurge was seen, which was accompanied by an increase in ethanol emission. Light almost, but not completely, eliminated fermentation in anaerobic surroundings and also the post-anaerobic or post-submergence peaks in acetaldehyde production. All photosynthetically generated oxygen was consumed within the plant. There was no substantial difference in acetaldehyde and ethanol output between FR13A and the less submergence-tolerant line CT6241 under any submergence treatment. In some circumstances, submergence damaged CT6241 more than FR13A even in the absence of vigorous fermentation. We conclude that oxygen deprivation may not always determine the extent of damage caused to rice plants by submergence under natural conditions.
12509349	Submergence tolerance of 13 doubled haploid lines of rice and their parents (submergence tolerant FR13A and submergence intolerant CT6241) was assessed using 2-week-old seedlings. Plants were scored for leaf senescence and percentage of seedlings that survived up to 15 d submergence, followed by a 12 d recovery period. Seven lines proved to be submergence tolerant, and six relatively intolerant. In all lines, activity of pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC), extracted from the apical 3-5 cm of root axes, decreased by 46-96 % and 38-76 %, respectively, during 5 or 10 d submergence under natural day/night conditions, compared with pre-submergence values (100 %). However, when the enzyme was extracted at night, submergence increased PDC activity of all rice lines (approx. 112 % on average), compared with pre-submergence values (100 %). The stimulating effect of the dark period on PDC activity was reproduced and amplified by submerging rice seedlings for up to 5 d in continuous darkness in water containing sub-ambient concentrations of oxygen (2.3 mg l(-1)). Such increased PDC activity was also observed in seedlings exposed to anoxia for 6 h (approx. 6-175 % higher than pre-submergence values). Irrespective of tolerance class, submergence decreased soluble protein concentrations under all conditions and sampling times. No positive correlation was found between PDC activity and tolerance of the various rice lines to submergence. However, PDC activity was slightly higher in submergence intolerant lines, compared with tolerant lines, under both dark submergence and anoxia. Such differences in PDC activity between the two groups of rice lines were not observed when they were submerged under the natural diurnal cycle. Increased PDC activity in roots at night demonstrated a probable incidence of tissue hypoxia or anoxia during submergence during each dark period.
12509350	The present study evaluated waterlogging tolerance, root porosity and radial O(2) loss (ROL) from the adventitious roots, of seven upland, three paddy, and two deep-water genotypes of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Upland types, with the exception of one genotype, were as tolerant of 30 d soil waterlogging as the paddy and deep-water types. In all but one of the 12 genotypes, the number of adventitious roots per stem increased for plants grown in waterlogged, compared with drained, soil. When grown in stagnant deoxygenated nutrient solution, genotypic variation was evident for root porosity and rates of ROL, but there was no overall difference between plants from the three cultural types. Adventitious root porosity increased from 20-26 % for plants grown in aerated solution to 29-41 % for plants grown in stagnant solution. Growth in stagnant solution also induced a 'tight' barrier to ROL in the basal regions of adventitious roots of five of the seven upland types, all three paddy types, and the two deep-water types. The enhanced porosity provided a low resistance pathway for O(2) movement to the root tip, and the barrier to ROL in basal zones would have further enhanced longitudinal O(2) diffusion towards the apex, by diminishing losses to the rhizosphere. The plasticity in root physiology, as described above, presumably contributes to the ability of rice to grow in diverse environments that differ markedly in soil waterlogging, such as drained upland soils as well as waterlogged paddy fields.
12510737	To provide an objective measure of the correlation between the internal energy content of ions generated by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) and the matrix properties, a series of well-characterized benzyl-substituted benzylpyridinium salts were used as thermometer molecules (TMs). To determine the internal energy variations of analyte ions, the survival yields of TM molecular ions were measured in three different matrixes, alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (CHCA), 3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (sinapinic acid, SA), and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). Statistical analysis of extensive survival yield data indicated that there were discernible differences among the studied matrixes. The experimental survival yields of the TM ions were used to calculate the unimolecular decomposition rate coefficient. Corresponding theoretical reaction rate coefficients were calculated based on the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory for different internal energies of the TMs. The internal energies of the ions were obtained by projecting the experimental rate coefficient values onto the theoretical curves obtained by the RRKM calculations. Molecular ions of the analytes showed decreasing survival yields and consequently increasing internal energies in the three matrixes in the following order: CHCA, SA, and DHB with "cold", "intermediate", and "hot" characteristics, respectively. Qualitatively, this could be interpreted as a significant departure from earlier observations suggesting an opposite trend. The classification as hot and cold matrixes should be further qualified by accounting for the influence of laser pulse energy and the nature of the analyte. Higher laser pulse energy led to an elevated level of energy transferred to the analyte, which in turn resulted in a diminished survival yield of the analyte molecular ion. It is quite possible that the assignment of hot and cold reverses as the analyte or the laser energy changes. These findings can help predict the outcome of postsource decay experiments and clarify the concept of hot and cold matrixes in MALDI mass spectrometry.
12514026	A total of 161 low-G+C-content gram-positive bacteria isolated from whole-crop paddy rice silage were classified and subjected to phenotypic and genetic analyses. Based on morphological and biochemical characters, these presumptive lactic acid bacterium (LAB) isolates were divided into 10 groups that included members of the genera Enterococcus, Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc, Pediococcus, and WEISSELLA: Analysis of the 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) was used to confirm the presence of the predominant groups indicated by phenotypic analysis and to determine the phylogenetic affiliation of representative strains. The virtually complete 16S rRNA gene was PCR amplified and sequenced. The sequences from the various LAB isolates showed high degrees of similarity to those of the GenBank reference strains (between 98.7 and 99.8%). Phylogenetic trees based on the 16S rDNA sequence displayed high consistency, with nodes supported by high bootstrap values. With the exception of one species, the genetic data was in agreement with the phenotypic identification. The prevalent LAB, predominantly homofermentative (66%), consisted of Lactobacillus plantarum (24%), Lactococcus lactis (22%), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (20%), Pediococcus acidilactici (11%), Lactobacillus brevis (11%), Enterococcus faecalis (7%), Weissella kimchii (3%), and Pediococcus pentosaceus (2%). The present study, the first to fully document rice-associated LAB, showed a very diverse community of LAB with a relatively high number of species involved in the fermentation process of paddy rice silage. The comprehensive 16S rDNA-based approach to describing LAB community structure was valuable in revealing the large diversity of bacteria inhabiting paddy rice silage and enabling the future design of appropriate inoculants aimed at improving its fermentation quality.
12515690	The ability of questionnaires to predict children's exposure to pesticides was examined as part of the Minnesota Children's Pesticide Exposure Study (MNCPES). The MNCPES focused on a probability sample of 102 children between the ages of 3 and 13 years living in either urban (Minneapolis and St. Paul, MN) or nonurban (Rice and Goodhue Counties in Minnesota) households. Samples were collected in a variety of relevant media (air, food, beverages, tap water, house dust, soil, urine), and chemical analyses emphasized three organophosphate insecticides (chlorpyrifos, diazinon, malathion) and a herbicide (atrazine). Results indicate that the residential pesticide-use questions and overall screening approach used in the MNCPES were ineffective for identifying and oversampling children/households with higher levels of individual target pesticides.
12517110	The aroma impact compound, 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), has been identified for the first time in headspace of fresh bread flowers (Vallaris glabra Ktze) in which volatile components were extracted by solid-phase microextraction (SPME) at room temperature prior to analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. A total of 50 volatiles were detected. Among these, 23 volatiles were identified, predominantly in a group of terpenes. More volatiles were found in the extract of fresh bread flowers obtained by continuous steam distillation and solvent extraction (SDS). Of the 40 volatiles identified, the additional components were mainly straight-chain saturated hydrocarbons. 2AP was found in the extracts obtained by both SPME (0.37%) and SDS (2.71% relative proportion). Quantitative analyses of 2AP in bread flowers and other plant materials were performed by solvent extraction employing acidic solutions and capillary GC with flame ionization detection. The highest concentration of 2AP was found in dried flowers of V. glabra at 26.1 mg/kg. By comparison with other plant sources, fresh leaves of Pandanus amaryllifolius Roxb contain 2AP at 10.3 mg/kg and Thai fragrant rice, Khao Dawk Mali 105, at 3.0 mg/kg.
12517120	It was hypothesized that a simplified and efficient strategy could be developed for large-scale production and purification of the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol from Fusarium graminearum rice cultures for toxicological studies. F. graminearum R6576 was cultured on rice and extracted with methanol, and the extract was concentrated and subjected to silica gel low-pressure liquid chromatography (LPLC) under a hexane-acetone gradient system. Deoxynivalenol isolation was monitored by thin-layer chromatography, and fractions containing deoxynivalenol were pooled, concentrated, and applied to a second LPLC column under the same conditions. An enriched deoxynivalenol fraction was obtained, which yielded a crystalline material. Repeated crystallization yielded spectroscopically pure deoxynivalenol. The identity of this compound was confirmed by HPLC comparison to an authentic deoxynivalenol standard, FABMS analysis, and comparison of the (1)H and (13)C NMR spectra with published data. This simplified purification scheme eliminated many laborious steps and equipment previously required to obtain gram quantities of crystalline deoxynivalenol for biological testing in animal models.
12518852	Agricultural use of insecticides is involved in the selection of resistance to these compounds in field populations of mosquitoes in Burkina Faso. Anopheles gambiae s.l. was resistant to permethrin and DDT in cotton-growing and urban areas, but susceptible in areas with limited insecticide selection pressure (rice fields and control areas). Nevertheless, resistance to these insecticides was observed in a village on the outskirts of the rice fields at the end of the rainy season, suggesting that the latter population of mosquitoes had migrated from the surrounding cotton villages into the rice fields. A seasonal variation of resistance observed in the cotton-growing area is related to the distribution of the molecular M and S forms of An. gambiae, since resistance to pyrethroids has so far only been reported in the S form. Pyrethroid resistance in west African An. gambiae was conferred by target site insensitivity through a knockdown resistance (kdr)-like mutation, which was present at high frequencies in mosquitoes in the cotton-growing and urban areas.
12519908	The wild rice species Oryza rufipogon with wide intraspecific variation is thought to be the progenitor of the cultivated rice species Oryza sativa with two ecotypes, japonica and indica. To determine the origin of cultivated rice, subfamily members of the rice retroposon p-SINE1, which show insertion polymorphism in the O. sativa -O. rufipogon population, were identified and used to "bar code" each of 101 cultivated and wild rice strains based on the presence or absence of the p-SINE1 members at the respective loci. A phylogenetic tree constructed based on the bar codes given to the rice strains showed that O. sativa strains were classified into two groups corresponding to japonica and indica, whereas O. rufipogon strains were in four groups, in which annual O. rufipogon strains formed a single group, differing from the perennial O. rufipogon strains of the other three groups. Japonica strains were closely related to the O. rufipogon perennial strains of one group, and the indica strains were closely related to the O. rufipogon annual strains, indicating that O. sativa has been derived polyphyletically from O. rufipogon. The subfamily members of p-SINE1 constitute a powerful tool for studying the classification and relationship of rice strains, even when one has limited knowledge of morphology, taxonomy, physiology, and biochemistry of rice strains.
12519938	The DNA Data Bank of Japan (DDBJ, http://www.ddbj.nig.ac.jp) has collected and released more entries and bases than last year. This is mainly due to large-scale submissions from Japanese sequencing teams on mouse, rice, chimpanzee, nematoda and other organisms. The contributions of DDBJ over the past year are 17.3% (entries) and 10.3% (bases) of the combined outputs of the International Nucleotide Sequence Databases (INSD). Our complete genome sequence database, Genome Information Broker (GIB), has been improved by incorporating XML. It is now possible to perform a more sophisticated database search against the new GIB than the ordinary BLAST or FASTA search.
12519976	Génoplante is a partnership program between public French institutes (INRA, CIRAD, IRD and CNRS) and private companies (Biogemma, Bayer CropScience and Bioplante) that aims at developing genome analysis programs for crop species (corn, wheat, rapeseed, sunflower and pea) and model plants (Arabidopsis and rice). The outputs of these programs form a wealth of information (genomic sequence, transcriptome, proteome, allelic variability, mapping and synteny, and mutation data) and tools (databases, interfaces, analysis software), that are being integrated and made public at the public bioinformatics resource centre of Génoplante: GénoPlante-Info (GPI). This continuous flood of data and tools is regularly updated and will grow continuously during the coming two years. Access to the GPI databases and tools is available at http://genoplante-info.infobiogen.fr/.
12519977	GrainGenes, http://www.graingenes.org, is the international database for the wheat, barley, rye and oat genomes. For these species it is the primary repository for information about genetic maps, mapping probes and primers, genes, alleles and QTLs. Documentation includes such data as primer sequences, polymorphism descriptions, genotype and trait scoring data, experimental protocols used, and photographs of marker polymorphisms, disease symptoms and mutant phenotypes. These data, curated with the help of many members of the research community, are integrated with sequence and bibliographic records selected from external databases and results of BLAST searches of the ESTs. Records are linked to corresponding records in other important databases, e.g. Gramene's EST homologies to rice BAC/PACs, TIGR's Gene Indices and GenBank. In addition to this information within the GrainGenes database itself, the GrainGenes homepage at http://wheat.pw.usda.gov provides many other community resources including publications (the annual newsletters for wheat, barley and oat, monographs and articles), individual datasets (mapping and QTL studies, polymorphism surveys, variety performance evaluations), specialized databases (Triticeae repeat sequences, EST unigene sets) and pages to facilitate coordination of cooperative research efforts in specific areas such as SNP development, EST-SSRs and taxonomy. The goal is to serve as a central point for obtaining and contributing information about the genetics and biology of these cereal crops.
12519979	The MIPS Rice (Oryza sativa) database (MOsDB; http://mips.gsf.de/proj/rice) provides a comprehensive data collection dedicated to the genome information of rice. Rice (O. sativa L.) is one of the most important food crops for over half the world's population and serves as a major model system in cereal genome research. MOsDB integrates data from two publicly available rice genomic sequences, O. sativa L. ssp. indica and O. sativa L. ssp. japonica. Besides regularly updated rice genome sequence information, MOsDB provides an integrated resource for associated analysis data, e.g. internal and external annotation information as well as a complex characterization of all annotated rice genes. The MOsDB web interface supports various search options and allows browsing the database content. MOsDB is continuously expanding to include an increasing range of data type and the growing amount of information on the rice genome.
12519988	Rice is not only a major food staple for the world's population but it also is a model species for a major group of flowering plants, the monocotyledonous plants. Draft genomic sequence of two subspecies of rice, Oryza sativa spp. japonica and indica ssp. are publicly available. To provide the community with a resource to data-mine the rice genome, we have constructed an annotation resource for rice (http://www.tigr.org/tdb/e2k1/osa1/). In this resource, we have annotated the rice genome for gene content, identified motifs/domains within the predicted genes, constructed a rice repeat database, identified related sequences in other plant species, and identified syntenic sequences between rice and maize. All of the data is available through web-based interfaces, FTP downloads, and a Distributed Annotation System.
12520180	The effects of exogenously applied gibberellic acid (GA(3)) or brassinolide (BL) on the H(+)-pumps and aquaporin in the vacuolar membrane of rice seedling leaf sheath were investigated. Antibodies against mung bean H(+)-PPase, the B subunit of V-ATPase, and radish tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP) cross-reacted with the vacuolar membrane proteins of rice seedling leaf sheath. The results of immunoblot analysis showed that the amounts of H(+)-PPase and V-ATPase were retained at a high level for two days in the presence of GA(3), although the level gradually decreased without phytohormones, indicating that GA(3) has a promotive effect on the activities of vacuolar H(+)-pumps. However, the levels of V-ATPase and H(+)-PPase were increased on day 2 and then decreased when treated with BL. There were no visible differences in the level of TIP upon treatment with GA(3) and BL. In comparison with the water control, the activity of H(+)-PPase treated with BL was also retained at a relatively high level, suggesting that BL has a stimulative effect on the activities of H(+)-PPase. These results indicate that GA(3) and BL might be involved in the regulation of the quantity and activities of plant vacuolar H(+)-pumps.
12520256	To evaluate the efficacy of a specific protocol of conservative therapy for infant gastroesophageal reflux. Retrospective evaluation of the response to telephone teaching of conservative therapy by a single instructor as part of the screening process for a pharmacotherapy study of infantile reflux. Feeding modifications included the use of a protein-hydrolysate formula thickened with one tablespoon of dry rice cereal per ounce, at restricted volumes. Positioning changes included avoidance of seated and supine positions. Elimination of all tobacco smoke exposure was advised. Single-center, outpatient. 394 infants <12 months old. the percentage responding to conservative therapy instruction. Factors possibly predicting success for isolated conservative therapy instruction: evaluated as explanatory variables by chi(2) analysis; significance at P <.05. Ninety-six infants (24%) had sufficient symptom improvement and no additional intervention was required. Infants with isolated vomiting or irritability were more likely to respond than infants with both or other symptoms (P <.001). Neither formula type fed nor use of pharmacotherapy at referral were significant in determining response to conservative therapy. As many as 24% of infants with gastroesophageal reflux disease may respond to conservative therapy instruction provided by telephone. Benefits include savings of cost, time, and drug exposure of infants.
12520302	The publication of draft sequences for the two subspecies of Oryza sativa (rice), japonica (cv. Nipponbare) and indica (cv. 93-11), provides a unique opportunity to study the dynamics of transposable elements in this important crop plant. Here we report the use of these sequences in a computational approach to identify the first active DNA transposons from rice and the first active miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE) from any organism. A sequence classified as a Tourist-like MITE of 430 base pairs, called miniature Ping (mPing), was present in about 70 copies in Nipponbare and in about 14 copies in 93-11. These mPing elements, which are all nearly identical, transpose actively in an indica cell-culture line. Database searches identified a family of related transposase-encoding elements (called Pong), which also transpose actively in the same cells. Virtually all new insertions of mPing and Pong elements were into low-copy regions of the rice genome. Since the domestication of rice mPing MITEs have been amplified preferentially in cultivars adapted to environmental extremes-a situation that is reminiscent of the genomic shock theory for transposon activation.
12520303	Transposable elements constitute a large portion of eukaryotic genomes and contribute to their evolution and diversification. Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) constitute one of the main groups of transposable elements and are distributed ubiquitously in the genomes of plants and animals such as maize, rice, Arabidopsis, human, insect and nematode. Because active MITEs have not been identified, the transposition mechanism of MITEs and their accumulation in eukaryotic genomes remain poorly understood. Here we describe a new class of MITE, called miniature Ping (mPing), in the genome of Oryza sativa (rice). mPing elements are activated in cells derived from anther culture, where they are excised efficiently from original sites and reinserted into new loci. An mPing-associated Ping element, which has a putative PIF family transposase, is implicated in the recent proliferation of this MITE family in a subspecies of rice.
12520304	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important crop worldwide and, with the availability of the draft sequence, a useful model for analysing the genome structure of grasses. To practice efficient rice breeding through genetic engineering techniques, it is important to identify the economically important genes in this crop. The use of mobile transposons as gene tags in intact plants is a powerful tool for functional analysis because transposon insertions often inactivate genes. Here we identify an active rice transposon named miniature Ping (mPing) through analysis of the mutability of a slender mutation of the glume-the seed structure that encloses and determines the shape of the grain. The mPing transposon is inserted in the slender glume (slg) mutant allele but not in the wild-type allele. Search of the O. sativa variety Nipponbare genome identified 34 sequences with high nucleotide similarity to mPing, indicating that mPing constitutes a family of transposon elements. Excision of mPing from slg plants results in reversion to a wild-type phenotype. The mobility of the transposon mPing in intact rice plants represents a useful alternative tool for the functional analysis of rice genes.
12520335	Lipo-chitooligosaccharides (LCOs), or Nod factors, are host-specific bacteria-to-plant signal molecules essential for the establishment of a successful N(2)-fixing legume-rhizobia symbiosis. At submicromolar concentrations Nod factors induce physiological changes in host and non-host plants. Here we show that the Nod factor Nod Bj V(C18:1,MeFuc) of Bradyrhizobium japonicum 532C enhances germination of a variety of economically important plants belonging to diverse botanical families: Zea mays, Oryza sativa (Poaceae), Beta vulgaris (Chenopodaceae), Glycine max, Phaseolus vulgaris (Fabaceae), and Gossypium hirsutum (Malvaceae), under laboratory, greenhouse and field conditions. Similar increases in germination were observed for filtrates of genistein-induced cultures of B. japonicum 532C, while non-induced B. japonicum, induced Bj 168 (a nodC mutant of B. japonicum deficient in Nod factor synthesis) or the pentamer of chitin did not invoke such responses, demonstrating the role of Nod factor in the observed effects. In addition, three out of four synthetic LCOs evaluated also promoted germination of corn, soybean and Arabidopsis thaliana seeds. LCO also enhanced the early growth of corn seedlings under greenhouse conditions. These findings suggest the possible use of LCOs for improved crop production.
12520337	The endosperm and embryo of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) grain were investigated to relate thioredoxin h and disulfide changes to germination and seedling development. The disulfide proteins of both tissues were found to undergo reduction following imbibition. Reduction reached a peak 1 day earlier in the embryo than in the endosperm, day 1 vs. day 2. The profile in both cases resembled those observed with wheat and rice, i.e., the reduction of the storage proteins increased initially and then declined during the period of seedling growth. The extent of the increase in reduction observed with barley endosperm was, however, less pronounced than with the other cereals. Also, unlike wheat and rice, the storage proteins of the endosperm were highly reduced in the dry seed and the sulfhydryl content of glutelins showed no appreciable change during this period. The relative abundance of thioredoxin h during germination and early seedling growth differed in the embryo and endosperm: a progressive decrease in the endosperm (as seen with wheat) vs. an increase in the embryo. Thioredoxin h was found in the major seed tissues in characteristic forms. Three forms were found in the scutellum and aleurone, whereas two, which may represent isoforms, were identified in the root and the shoot. Using a recently developed strategy based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, several proteins were identified as specific targets for thioredoxin in the embryo following oxidation with H(2)O(2), among them barley embryo globulin 1, peroxiredoxin and acidic ribosomal protein P(3). The results confirm earlier findings with the endosperm of other cereals and extend the importance of thioredoxin-linked redox change to the germinating embryo for functions that potentially include dormancy, protection against reactive oxygen species, translation and the mobilization of storage proteins.
12520386	It is known that the sources of soil contamination can be endogenous or exogenous and that exogenous contamination may be direct or indirect. In this work, an environmental pesticide fate study was conducted in soil profiles collected from 23 rice field sites in an important Mediterranean wetland (Albufera Natural Park, Valencia, Spain) from April 1996 to November 1997. Temporal and spatial distribution of 44 pesticide residues in an alluvial Mediterranean soil (gleyic-calcaric Fluvisol, Fluvaquent) were monitored. During this period, the levels of pesticide residues in different soil horizons (Ap1 0-12 cm, Ap2 12-30 cm, ApCg 30-50 cm, C1gr 50-76 cm, and C2r 76-100 cm) were investigated. In addition, information was collected on agricultural pesticide application practices and soil characteristics. Distribution throughout the soil profile showed that pesticide concentrations were always higher in the topsoil (Ap1 horizon), in the autumn season, and in the border with citrus-vegetable orchard soils (calcaric Fluvisol, Xerofluvent). Chlorpyrifos (organophosphorus), endosulfan (organochlorine), and pyridaphenthion (organophosphorus) insecticides were, respectively, the most detected of all the pesticides investigated. These results were associated with processes, such as nonleaching, transport by movement into surface waters, retention, volatilization, and chemical and biological degradation in the topsoil, as well as with direct and indirect exogenous contamination sources.
12520882
12520960	In order to exploit and develop the resource of a kind of Chinese wild rice[Zinania Lalifolia (Griseb) Turcz], the nutrition values of the Chinese wild rice from Luoma, Baoying, Hongze, Weishan and Tai lake were analyzed. The nutrients of Chinese wild rice per 100 g samples were protein 13.2 g, vitamin B1 0.59 mg, vitamin B2 0.07 mg, vitamin E 0.29 mg, zinc 1.60 mg, iron 2.69 mg, and they were higher than those of white rice. The amino acid score of Chinese wild rice was 84, the first limiting amino acid was threonine, and the protein efficiency ratio(PER) was 2.75. These data showed that the Chinese wild rice was a good food resource with higher nutrition value, therefore, the ancient and novel food resource might be used in Chinese diet as the North American wild rice that was used in American diet.
12522953	A comparative analysis of glycemia effect of hydrocarbon foods in patients with dyskenisia of belieferous tract (n = 21), cholelithiasis (n = 20) and postcholecystectomy syndrome (n = 21). The food was given on an empty stomach on the basis of 50 g of carbohydrate per portion. The glucose level was defined in blood on an empty stomach and in 30, 60, 90 and 120 min. intervals after each loading. A significantly smaller increase of postfood glucemia after consumption of boiled rice and lentil was registered as well as accordingly low meanings of their glycemia indices in comparison with those of wheat bread and boiled potatoes.
12523705	There is a general lack of data on the different patterns of dynamics and impact of foot and mouth disease (FMD) in South-East Asia and the impact the disease has on different sectors, in particular the smallholder sector in which livestock play such an important role. A pilot study was conducted of a recent outbreak of FMD that swept across the southern part of Laos during the second half of 1999. The main objectives of the study were to investigate the possible routes of transmission of the disease and the impact of FMD on the predominantly smallholder rice/livestock production system of Savannakhet Province. The study was performed by group interviews of farmers in ten villages, located in five districts across the width of the Province, and of district and provincial veterinary officials. Results suggested that the infection had probably been introduced from the eastern border and had spread rapidly west, along a principal trading route of pigs, cattle and buffalo. In the process, many villages adjacent to this trading route became infected and the disease spread rapidly within infected villages. The disease had a significant impact on the agricultural system, but the impact would have been much greater had the epidemic occurred during the season of paddy field preparation. Mortality was observed in young buffalo, cattle and pigs, and long periods of morbidity were observed in buffalo, often requiring extended treatment. The sale of livestock for cash was severely restricted, creating additional repercussions on that sector. It was concluded that the most appropriate approach to FMD control would be to prevent infected animals from entering the principal trading routes for pigs, cattle and buffalo. This will require the involvement of all the stakeholders of the livestock industry, including traders and veterinary authorities. A further tactic to be considered would be to protect livestock systems adjacent to these trading routes by vaccination. An economic study of the market incentives of both traders and smallholders is recommended and this approach is advocated in other parts of South-East Asia where livestock trading routes present the major risk of FMD outbreaks.
12523942	Immigrants in Sweden have on average poorer health than native Swedes, including the risk of nutritional problems. In Sweden's multicultural society there is a need for increased knowledge about eating habits in public health work within health and education. A survey of refugees from Bosnia-Herzegovina living in Sweden was undertaken to describe the choice of food and food traditions in pre-war Bosnia. The purpose was to introduce the subject of food, health and migration into public health work and develop culture-adapted food and health advice. Focus-group interviews were undertaken with a total of 20 women refugees from Bosnia-Herzegovina. Qualitative data analysis identified a large consumption of bread as a staple food with meat, vegetables, milk, cheese, legumes, egg and fish as additions. Self-sufficiency was noted with milk souring, jam making and the production of sweet fruit drinks. Home made cheese and drying or smoking of meat were common methods of food storage. In child rearing, breast-feeding for 6-8 months was most common. Home made breast milk replacements were made from semolina, rice and 'petit biscuits'. Several important factors need to be taken into account when giving culturally adapted food and health advice to Bosnian families, such as encouraging bread, vegetable and legume consumption and giving advice on substituting sweet fruit drinks for natural fruit. One should be conscious of how religious beliefs as well as socio-cultural, historical, ecological, economical and psychological influences may guide food choices.
12524357	We introduced an experimental design that produced an "immortalized F(2)" population allowing for complete dissection of genetic components underlying quantitative traits. Data for yield and three component traits of the immortalized F(2) were collected from replicated field trials over 2 years. Using 231 marker loci, we resolved the genetic effects into individual components and assessed relative performance of all the genotypes at both single- and two-locus levels. Single-locus analysis detected 40 QTL for the four traits. Dominance effects for about one-half of the QTL were negative, resulting in little "net" positive dominance effect. Correlation between genotype heterozygosity and trait performance was low. Large numbers of digenic interactions, including AA, AD, and DD, were detected for all the traits, with AA as the most prevalent interaction. Complementary two-locus homozygotes frequently performed the best among the nine genotypes of many two-locus combinations. While cumulative small advantages over two-locus combinations may partly explain the genetic basis of heterosis of the hybrid as double heterozygotes frequently demonstrated marginal advantages, double heterozygotes were never the best genotypes in any of the two-locus combinations. It was concluded that heterozygotes were not necessarily advantageous for trait performance even among genotypes derived from such a highly heterotic hybrid.
12524456	The characteristics of a phosphoprotein with a relative electrophoretic mobility of 12 kDa have been unknown during two decades of studies on redox-dependent protein phosphorylation in plant photosynthetic membranes. Digestion of this protein from spinach thylakoid membranes with trypsin and subsequent tandem nanospray-quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry of the peptides revealed a protein sequence that did not correspond to any previously known protein. Sequencing of the corresponding cDNA uncovered a gene for a precursor protein with a transit peptide followed by a strongly basic mature protein with a molecular mass of 8,640 Da. Genes encoding homologous proteins were found on chromosome 3 of Arabidopsis and rice as well as in ESTs from 20 different plant species, but not from any other organisms. The protein can be released from the membrane with high salt and is also partially released in response to light-induced phosphorylation of thylakoids, in contrast to all other known thylakoid phosphoproteins, which are integral to the membrane. On the basis of its properties, this plant-specific protein is named thylakoid soluble phosphoprotein of 9 kDa (TSP9). Mass spectrometric analyses revealed the existence of non-, mono-, di-, and triphosphorylated forms of TSP9 and phosphorylation of three distinct threonine residues in the central part of the protein. The phosphorylation and release of TSP9 from the photosynthetic membrane on illumination favor participation of this basic protein in cell signaling and regulation of plant gene expression in response to changing light conditions.
12527208	The barley and rice chalcone flavonone isomerase (Cfi) genes were isolated and identified by homology to the maize Cfi gene. Structure analysis indicated high similarity except that the barley gene lacked intron 3. The maize Cfi gene has been mapped to three loci, but only a single locus was detected in barley and rice. This explains the lack of observed mutants in maize while a single locus anthocyanin-less 30 (ant30), with four alleles ant30-245, ant30-310, ant30-272 and ant30-287 has been described in barley. Based on biochemical analysis it has been suggested that these mutants are in the Cfi gene resulting in absence of anthocyanin. In order to provide molecular evidence for or against this hypothesis we sequenced the four ant30 alleles and compared them to their respective wild-type alleles. The three sodium azide induced mutants ant30-245, ant30-272 and ant30-287 showed single base changes resulting in two non-sense and one mis-sense mutations affecting the protein function. The 1-nitroso-5,6-dihydrouracil induced mutant ant30-310 had one base substitution and a 25 bp deletion. These observations are in accordance with the conclusion that the ant30 phenotype is caused by mutations in the Cfi gene. The nature of the mutants induced is in line with the proposed mechanism of action for the mutagens used.
12527425	The voltage-dependent anion-selective channel (VDAC) is a mitochondrial outer membrane ion channel. Different isoforms exist in plants but information about their specific role remains to be established. Our purpose is to find out the structural features common to three rice VDAC isoforms and to investigate their (post)transcriptional regulation in response to an osmotic stress. Two new cDNAs encoding mitochondrial VDAC from rice (Oryza sativa) were isolated, sequenced and characterized: a phylogenetic reconstruction permitted identification of orthologues in Poaceae and computer-based analyses predicted 18 transmembrane beta-strands, one amphipathic alpha-helix and two different phosphorylation motifs. The expression of three rice vdac genes was investigated. Northern blot analyses indicated that they were expressed in all plant tissues. There was a differential expression of osvdac1 and osvdac3, whereas osvdac2 was homogeneously expressed in all tissues. No change in vdac expression was observed under an osmotic stress. However, a fast-enhanced expression of vdac was observed in roots during the recovery period after stress release. This enhanced expression is not correlated to the amount of VDAC protein detected in roots suggesting a posttranscriptional regulation.
12527770	The finding in animal species of complexes homologous to the products of six Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes, origin of replication recognition complex (ORC), has suggested that ORC-related mechanisms have been conserved in all eukaryotes. In plants, however, the only cloned putative homologs of ORC subunits are the Arabidopsis ORC2 and the rice ORC1. Homologs of other subunits of plant origin have not been cloned and characterized. A striking observation was the absence from the Arabidopsis genome of an obvious candidate gene-homolog of ORC4. This fact raised compelling questions of whether plants, in general, and Arabidopsis, in particular, may have lost the ORC4 gene, whether ORC-homologous subunits function within a complex in plants, whether an ORC complex may form and function without an ORC4 subunit, whether a functional (but not sequence) protein homolog may have taken up the role of ORC4 in Arabidopsis, and whether lack of ORC4 is a plant feature, in general. Here, we report the first cloned and molecularly characterized five genes coding for the maize putative homologs of ORC subunits ZmORC1, ZmORC2, ZmORC3, ZmORC4 and ZmORC5. Their expression profiles in tissues with different cell-dividing activities are compatible with a role in DNA replication. Based on the potential of ORC-homologous maize proteins to bind each other in yeast, we propose a model for their possible assembly within a maize ORC. The isolation and molecular characterization of an ORC4-homologous gene from maize argues that, in its evolution, Arabidopsis may have lost the homologous ORC4 gene.
12527773	The Arabidopsis thaliana nuclear genome sequence revealed several open reading frames encoding proteins related to group II intron-encoded reverse transcriptase/maturases. Here, we show via sequence alignments that at least four such open reading frames are conserved in the nuclear genomes of A.thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice) and that they encode putative proteins belonging to two different classes (nMat-1 and nMat-2), neither of which is associated with a group II intron RNA structure. The two nMat-1 proteins have reverse transcriptase, maturase and DNA endonuclease domains characteristic of canonical group II intron-encoded proteins, while the two nMat-2 proteins have reverse transcriptase and maturase domains linked to a novel C-terminal domain. Although some nMat proteins have mutations expected to inactivate intron mobility functions, all could potentially retain the RNA splicing function. These nuclear maturase-like proteins may be imported into organelles to function in group II intron splicing and/or they may have assumed other cellular functions. Nuclear-encoded maturases could regulate organellar gene expression and may reflect a step in the evolution of mobile group II introns into spliceosomal introns.
12531630	As a step in the development of an oral vaccine against ETEC, we evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of CS6, a polymeric protein commonly found on the surface of ETEC. Formulations included 1 and 5mg doses of CS6, either encapsulated in biodegradable polymer poly(D, L)-lactide-co-glycolide (PLG), or as free protein, administered orally in a solution of either normal saline or a rice-based buffer. Three doses of CS6 were given at 2-week intervals. Blood was collected immediately before and 7 days after each dose. All formulations were well tolerated. Four of five volunteers who received 1mg CS6 in PLG microspheres with buffer had significant IgA ASC responses (median=30 ASC per 10(6) PBMC) and significant serum IgG responses (median=3.5-fold increase). Oral administration of these prototype ETEC vaccine formulations are safe and can elicit immune responses. The ASC, serum IgA, and serum IgG responses to CS6 are similar in magnitude to the responses after challenge with wild-type ETEC [Coster et al., unpublished data]. Further studies are underway to determine whether these immune responses are sufficient for protection.
12532119
12532668	To determine whether a standard elimination diet can decrease the ADHD-symptoms in a heterogeneous group of young children with ADHD. Open, descriptive. 40 children, 36 boys and 4 girls, aged 3-7 (average 4.8 years), who met the DSM-IV-criteria for ADHD, followed their usual diet for two weeks and thereafter for two weeks an elimination diet, based on the few foods diet (rice, turkey, pear and lettuce). The behaviour of the child was evaluated at study entry, after the baseline period and at the end of the diet. Parents completed the 10-item Conners list, the ADHD Rating Scale and a physical complaints list. The teachers completed the 10-item Conners list and the ADHD Rating Scale twice, at the beginning and at the end of the diet. According to the parent-ratings, 25 children (62%) showed an improvement in behaviour of at least 50% on both the Conners list and the ADHD Rating Scale at the end of the elimination diet. Nine children (23%) withdrew from the study because the parents were unable to stick to the diet or because the child fell ill. Among the 15 children with both parent and teacher ratings, 10 responded both at home and in school. In young children with ADHD an elimination diet can lead to a statistically significant decrease in symptoms.
12533015
12533018
12533917	To identify the key soil parameters influencing methane emission from rice paddies, and to quantitatively describe the relationship of methane emission with the soil properties, an outdoor pot experiment with a total of 18 paddy soils sampled from different regions in Jiangsu province was conducted in Nanjing Agricultural University during 2000 rice growing season. Seasonal average rate of CH4 emission for all the 18 soils was 6.42 +/- 2.70 mg.(m2.h)-1, ranging from 1.96 to 11.06 mg.(m2.h)-1, approximately a 5.6-fold difference between the maximum and the minimum. Correlation analysis indicated that the seasonal average of CH4 emission was positively dependent on soil sand content (r = 0.528, p = 0.024) and negatively on soil clay content (r = -0.484, p = 0.042). Negative correlation of CH4 emission against soil total nitrogen (r = -0.449, p = 0.062), available nitrogen (r = -0.611, p = 0.007) and NH4(+)-N(r = -0.649, p = 0.004) was also observed. Copper content of soils has a significant negative impact on CH4 emission. The correlation coefficient (r) of CH4 emission against soil available copper and with total copper was -0.594 (p = 0.009) and -0.547 (p = 0.019), respectively. No clear relationship existed between CH4 emission and soil carbon content. A further investigation suggests that the seasonal average rate of CH4 emission can be quantitatively determined by a linear combination of soil available copper, total manganese, and a ratio of available to total iron (R2 = 0.755, p = 0.0001).
12533920	A Backward trajectory inversion model was established for estimating methane emission over Beijing area, with in situ data of methane measurement. The model was systematically tested for its ability on reflecting diffusion processes in atmospheric boundary layers. In specific condition, the model acted excellently on calculating emission strength and distribution over an area of 100 km scale. By applying to Beijing area with 9 days real methane data and practice meteorological data, the model showed source patches in this area with emission rate 0.0066-0.026 mg/(m2.s), which was correspond well to rice fields emission, the major methane source, in this region. Model results of source patches also showed certain spatial correlation with rice fields distribution.
12533926	Eight kinds of organic pollutants including 44 compounds in Ipomoea aquatic grown in paddy soil fertilized with sewage sludge and its composts were systematically determined by GC/MS. The results showed that twenty eight compounds consisting mainly of phthalic acid esters, nitrobenzenes, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were deteced in Ipomoea aquatic. Only individual or very few compounds for each kind of organic pollutants in Ipomoea aquatic were predominant, while others were trace or not detected. Compared with control, compounds detected in Ipomoea aquatic fertilized with sludge were commonly higher to a different extent, but those detected in Ipomoea aquatic fertilized with different sludge composts were commonly lower and even not detected, especially for Ipomoea aquatic fertilized with sludge + rice straw composts was detected only one compound. It was therefore concluded that direct use of sewage sludge as organic fertilizer could result in bioaccumulation of organic pollutants in crops, but sludge compost application would be safe if proper compost treatment for sludge was conducted.
12535580	The objective of the present study was to determine the possibility to improve the reproductive performance of buffalo cows through the continuous exposure to bull with grazing and free-stall housing management. Sixty-four Egyptian multiparous buffalo cows raised under two different management systems in two farms were used in this study. The cows in the first farm (management system 1, MS1) were loose--housed in a free-stall yard, grazed for 4 h per day, suckled their calves for 2-3 months and were continuously exposed to a fertile bull. The cows in the second farm (management system 2, MS2) were confined in an open-fronted tie-stall shed, not grazed, suckled their calves for only 7 days and were exposed to a fertile bull twice per day (30 min per session). All the cows were fed a diet of green berseem (Trifolium alexandrinum), rice straw and concentrates to meet their maintenance and production requirements. The cows during both the treatments were milked twice per day after weaning. The cows in both groups were between the second and the sixth parity, weighed 450-480 kg and had average daily milk yields of 5.0-6.0 kg. In each farm, cows were visually checked twice daily at 07:00 and 17:00 h for the signs of oestrus and animals proved standing heat were naturally mated. Rectal palpation was used to monitor uterine involution and for pregnancy diagnosis. Blood was sampled twice per week from 7 to 150 days post-partum for serum progesterone assay. The results revealed that post-partum intervals to each of first ovulation, first oestrus, conception and next parturition were significantly (P < 0.05) shorter in MS1 group than in MS2 group. In the meantime, MS1 increased (P < 0.01) the conception and calving rates by 21 and 25%, respectively compared to MS2. Percentages of post-partum cyclic animals and animals exhibiting ovulatory oestrus were greater (P < 0.01) in MS1 group than in MS2 group. However, the percentage of animals cycling before day 60 post-partum was significantly (P < 0.01) lower in MS1 group than in MS2 group (13% versus 28%). By day 120 post-partum, only 63% of the buffaloes were cycling in MS2 group versus 94% in MS1 group. Percentage of silent ovulation was insignificantly higher in MS2 group (34%) than in MS1 group (25%). However, the percentage of false oestrus was higher (P < 0.01) in MS1 group than in MS2 group (16% versus 3%). In addition, percentage of short ovulatory cycles (15-17 days) was greater (P < 0.01) in MS1 group than in MS2 group, whereas percentage of long ovulatory cycle (25-28 days) was higher (P < 0.01) in MS2 group than in MS1 group. It was concluded that continuous exposure of buffalo cows to a fertile bull with grazing management under free-stall housing system enhances resumption of post-partum ovarian activity and improves conception and calving rates.
12536009	To examine whether photoperiod and food availability interact to influence reproductive development (Experiment 1), we exposed juvenile male and female rice rats to 16L:8D or 14L:10D and to ad lib, 80% of ad lib, or 60% of ad lib food intake from 3 to 8 weeks of age and recorded body and reproductive organ masses. Absolute paired testis masses were similar in ad lib and 80% of ad lib groups but significantly different than the 60% of ad lib group in both photoperiods. Relative paired testis masses were significantly different in the 80% and 60% of ad lib groups on 16L:8D only. Absolute seminal vesicle masses (SVM) were directly dependent upon the level of food restriction in both photoperiods, but relative SVMs were different only in the 60% of ad lib group. Terminal body masses were also directly dependent upon the level of food restriction and were greater on 16L:8D than on 14L:10D at most levels of food availability. In juvenile females, absolute uterine mass was only affected in the 60% of ad lib group on 14L:10D, while absolute paired ovary masses were affected on both photoperiods in the 60% of ad lib groups only. There was no effect of photoperiod or food on relative uterine and paired ovary masses. Terminal body mass was affected by food intake in both photoperiods. Lastly, in adult males (Experiment 2), photoperiod and food restriction affected reproductive function. Within a photoperiod, there was no effect of food restriction (75% of ad lib) on the testes, seminal vesicles, or testosterone levels in animals housed on 16L:8D, but terminal body mass was significantly reduced. On 12L:12D, however, food restriction significantly decreased testes and SVMs relative to ad lib-fed controls. Testosterone levels were reduced regardless of food availability. There was no effect of food restriction on terminal body mass. These results suggest that multiple potential environmental cues can be utilized to affect gonadal status in both juvenile and adult marsh rice rats.
12536375	Using a highly sensitive single photon counter, a spontaneous chemiluminescence (CL) study on rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds stored in different years was carried out. We first observed that the degree of ageing in rice seeds was related to the intensity of spontaneous CL during early imbibition (0-30 min). Rice seeds stored for a shorter time had a stronger intensity of CL in early imbibition. The germination rate of rice seeds showed an obvious positive correlation with the intensity of spontaneous CL. Singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) in rice seeds during early imbibition was investigated by a CL method using a cypridina luciferin analogue, 2-methyl-6-(p-methoxyphenyl)-3,7-dihydroimidazo [1,2alpha] pyrazin-3-one (MCLA), as a selective CL probe. Additional experimental evidence for the formation of (1)O(2) came from the quenching effect of sodium azide (NaN(3)) on MCLA-mediated rice seeds' CL. Analysis based on the experimental results demonstrated that spontaneous CL in rice seeds during early imbibition was mainly contributed by singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)).
12537438	Buckwheat grit cakes were prepared with a rice cake machine using the following independent variables: tempering moisture contents (15, 17, and 19%, wb), heating temperatures (240, 246, 252, and 258 degrees C), and heating times (5, 6, 7, and 8 s). Higher moisture, higher heating temperature, or longer heating time produced cakes with a higher cake specific volume. Cakes became lighter in color at a lower heating temperature or a shorter heating time. The hardest cake was produced at 252 degrees C for 5 s at 19% moisture content. The percent weight loss after tumbling decreased with increasing heating times and heating temperatures. Increased heating time resulted in more expanded products. The average rutin content decreased as the heating temperature or heating time increased. These results suggest that processing conditions, including tempering moisture, heating temperature, and heating time, significantly influenced physical and chemical qualities of buckwheat grit cakes such as specific volume, hardness, integrity, color, internal structure, and rutin content.
12541509	The plant growth promoting bacteria are closely associated to plant. The bacteria are used to adhering to plant rhizoplane, promoting plant growth by fixing nitrogen from atmosphere, secreting stimulating substances or producing antagonistic to plant pathogens. It was indicated that the biological nitrogen fixation played an important role in plant growth promoting function. In fact, it was verified recently by overall research that IAA does it. Therefore research of IAA production and biosynthetic pathway of plant growth-promoting bacteria is much more important. The various ways of IAA production indicated the strong or weak promoting function of bacterium to plants in general. The purpose of this paper is to determine whether IAA exists in cultured medium of Klebsiella axytoca SG-11 and biosynthetic pathway of IAA, in order to opimize cultural conditions for IAA production. Klebsiella axytoca SG-11 is a plant growth promoting bacterium, isolated from rice rhizoplane, which can fix nitrogen. The supernatant of SG-11 cultured medium determined by HPLC showed that 47.4 mg/L of IAA existed in LB medium and 1.2 mg/L of IAA, in basal medium. IAA in metabolite was identified by GC/MS as well. The intermediate determination of tryptamine, indole-3-acetamide, tryptophol and indole-3-acetonitrile indirectly indicated that IAA was biosynthesized in a pathway of indole-3-pyruvic acid. Meanwhile, tryptophol in metabolite of SG-11 was verified by GC/MS. The direct intermediates of indole-3-pyruvic acid and indole-3-acetaldehyde in the pathway can not be determined, because both are unstable under normal condition. As reversible conversion existed between indole-3 pyruvic aldehyde and tryptophol, the presence of tryptophol also proved the pathway of indole-3-pyruvic acid in the synthesis of IAA by Klebsiella axytoca SG-11. The results laid basis for further research of plant growth-promoting function of the bacterium.
12541666	When the RNase was eliminated through backing at 200 degrees C or treated by diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC), the total RNA of rice could be separated within 15 min using 1.0%T, 0%C linear polyacrylamide as sieving matrix and 7 mol/L urea as denaturant. The tRNA of rice can be separated into two classes and about nine peaks when high concentrated polyacrylamide sieving matrix (5.0%T, 0%C) was used. This technique could provide one of the rapid and accurate methods for the determination of RNA in plants.
12541973	A simple, rapid and perfect extraction and determination method for the internal hormones (gibberellin acid (GA3), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), zeatin (Z), abscisic acid (ABA)) in inter-subspecific hybrid rice with reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography has been developed. The chromatographic conditions were as follows: a Waters C18 column (4.6 mm i.d. x 250 mm, 5 microns), an SPD-6AV detector set at 254 nm and the mobile phase was a mixture of methanol, water and acetic acid (45:54.2:0.8, volume ratio). The lower detection limits were 0.5 mg/L for GA3, 0.1 mg/L for IAA, 0.3 mg/L for Z and 0.03 mg/L for ABA.
12541984	An efficient method with microchemical method and solid phase extraction (SPE) technique for the determination of oxadiazon residues in cereals by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) has been established. The oxadiazon was extracted from the sample with benzene-hexane(1:1, V/V). The extract was cleaned-up by a column of 500 mg Supelclean LC-Alumina-N. When the blank rice and corn were spiked with oxadiazon in the range of 0.005 mg/kg-5.00 mg/kg, the recoveries were 90.4%-115.7% for rice and 81.3-109.7% for corn, and with RSD of 2%-6% and 4%-9% respectively. The limit of detection was 0.005 mg/kg. The method is rapid, sensitive, accurate and suitable for the analysis of pesticide residues.
12542191	Rice production in sub-Saharan Africa has more than doubled in the last 3 decades and the potential to further develop rice-harvested areas is considerable. Several studies have demonstrated that the transformation of arable land into rice irrigation might create suitable habitats for large populations of disease vectors. Prominent among those are anopheline mosquitoes responsible for transmission of malaria. The method of irrigation on an intermittent basis during the rice-cropping calendar has gained renewed interest as a potentially effective malaria control strategy since the early 1980s. We review the experiences of the past 80 years with intermittent irrigation in the cultivation of rice. This method has been shown to reduce significantly the density of malaria vectors by curtailing their larval development. Furthermore, reduced methane emissions and water savings with at least equal yields were achieved in intermittently irrigated rice fields. We explore and discuss under what conditions intermittent irrigation might be beneficial in new rice-growing areas and identify steps that have to be taken to expand such programs in the future.
12542195	The routine colonization of Anopheles maculatus, a reputed malaria vector from Central Java, is described. The strain is free mating and long lived in the laboratory. This species will readily bloodfeed on small rodents and artificial membrane systems. Either natural or controlled temperatures, humidity, and lighting provide acceptable conditions for continuous rearing. A simple larval diet incorporating a 10:4 powdered mixture of dried beef and rice hulls proved acceptable. Using a variety of simple tools and procedures, this colony strain appears readily adaptable to rearing under most laboratory conditions. This appears to be the first report of continuous colonization using a free-mating strain of An. maculatus. Using this simple, relatively inexpensive method of mass colonization adds to the short list of acceptable laboratory populations used in the routine production of human-infecting plasmodia.
12547196	Cytosolic D-ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase from rice was crystallized after EDTA treatment and structurally elucidated by X-ray diffraction to 1.9A resolution. A prominent Zn(2+) site at the active center was established in a soaking experiment. The structure was compared with that of the EDTA-treated crystalline enzyme from the chloroplasts of potato plant leaves showing some structural differences, in particular the "closed" state of a strongly conserved mobile loop covering the substrate at its putative binding site. The previous proposal for the active center was confirmed and the most likely substrate binding position and conformation was derived from the locations of the bound zinc and sulfate ions and of three water molecules. Assuming that the bound zinc ion is an integral part of the enzyme, a reaction mechanism involving a well-stabilized cis-enediolate intermediate is suggested.
12548053	Lactoferrin has been suggested to have many biologic activities, such as facilitating iron absorption and having antimicrobial and antiinflammatory effects. In humans, several of these activities are likely to only be facilitated by human lactoferrin because they depend on the binding of human lactoferrin to specific receptors. Rice may be a useful vehicle to introduce recombinant human lactoferrin to infant foods because it has low allergenicity and is likely to be safer than using microorganisms or transgenic animals. Recombinant human lactoferrin was expressed in the rice cell culture system, and its biologic activity was assessed by iron-binding and -releasing properties, antimicrobial activity, and binding and uptake to Caco-2 cells. The authors also compared the stability of recombinant and native human lactoferrins against heat, low pH, and in vitro digestion. Biologic activity of rice-expressed recombinant human lactoferrin was similar to that of native human lactoferrin. Heat-treated proteins retained their functional activities except with severe treatment at 100 degrees C for 8 seconds, which disturbed the iron-binding capacity of recombinant human lactoferrin. Both types of proteins retained their functional activities between pH 2 and 7.4. After in vitro digestion, 50% of both proteins were detectable by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. The remaining native and recombinant lactoferrins retained antimicrobial and Caco-2 binding and uptake activities. The results indicate recombinant human lactoferrin has stability similar to native human lactoferrin when exposed to thermal treatment, pH treatment, and in vitro digestion, suggesting it may be active when added to infant formula.
12548759	The double strand RNA of maize rough dwarf virus (MRDV) was prepared from the maize samples showing symptoms which was from the Luanchen county of Heibei province of China. The primers were designed according to the known sequence of MRDV, the cDNA sequence of the seventh segment of MRDV was obtained by RT-PCR, the S7 sequence was analyzed by computer after sequencing. The results showed: the full length of the S7 cDNA is 1936 bp and equal to that of the S7 cDNA from abroad, the two open reading frame(ORF1 and ORF2) contained in the S7 segment are also unchanged. In comparison with the S7 segment from Italy, the homology of S7 nucleotide is 87.7% and the homology of ORF1 amino acid sequence is 91.6%. However, the MRDV S7 segment and the rice black strike dwarf virus S8 segment showed 95.5% nucleotide identities and 93.5% ORF1 amino acid identities.
12548787	In order to obtain single T-DNA copy transgenic rice, we have established a quick method to estimate the T-DNA copy number in transgenic rice using inverse PCR (IPCR). IPCR was used to amplify junction fragments, i.e. plant genomic DNA sequences flanking the known T-DNA sequences, which will help to estimate the T-DNA copy number in transgenic rice. We have analyzed 20 transgenic plants of 15 transgenic lines. Most plants (12) contain one integrated T-DNA copy per genome, 3 plants contain two and 1 plant contains 3 copies. In 4 transgenic plants no T-DNA copies could be detected using this method. The IPCR results were further tested by Southern analysis and sequence analysis.
12548796	A vascular bundles specific expressing vector pBAL1 with a promoter AQ630 from rice phenylalanine ammonialyase gene and a gene encoding indoleacetic-lysine synthytase from Pseudomonas syringae subsp. savastanoi was constructed. Affirmed by Southern blotting and RTPCR analysis, the AQ630-iaaL transgenic plants show increasing shoots-regeneration frequency of young stem explants on hormone-free 1/2 MS medium and lower sensibility to IAA when roots were induced from the root explants on the media containing different concentrations of IAA compared to untransformed plants.
12548809	AFP from winter flounder was utilized in cryopreservation of plant cells. During cryopreservation of rice suspension cells by two-step method, AFP at 0.01 mg/ml damaged the cells extremely. The data obtained at relatively high concentration, however, decreased the variability of survival rate. During vitrification of rice cells, AFP at 0.2 mg/ml enhanced the viability. However, high concentration AFP (> 5 mg/ml) decreased the recovery rate. Studies indicated that the results of application of AFP in cryopreservation were closely related to the concentration of cryoprotectant. The amount of ice crystal in environment, the concentration of AFP and cryoprotectant, and the composition of plasma membrane were several key factors affecting the results of AFP application. In mechanism analysis, the authors suggested that on one hand AFP can interact with ice crystal, which inhibits ice recrystallization and prevent the cells from devitrification. On the other hand, AFP also can interact with cell membrane, resulting in the ice growth around the plasma membrane.
12548832	Intercellular and intracellular proteins which were extracted from rice seedling leaves induced by Magnaporthe grisae, as well as those of control, were analysed by capillary zone electrophoresis. Intercellular proteins were extracted with sterilized water, while intracellular proteins were extracted with acidic protein extraction buffer. Protein adsorption to capillary wall was suppressed by using linear polyacrylamide coated capillary (75 microns x 57 cm) instead of uncoated capillary. Separations were performed at 25 degrees C with a positive voltage of 20 kV. Samples were injected into the capillary by applying pressure (3.0 kPa) for 5 s. The running buffer consisted of 50 mmol/L phosphoric acid (pH 2.0), and detection was achieved at 200 nm with a diode array detector. Being compared with a control, a new kind of protein induced by Magnaporthe grisae was identified in rice leaf intracellular proteins with Grubbs method which is used to test outliers in mathematical statistics.
12548929	Rice rhizosphere soil samples were colected from 10 sites of 7 provinces in the Yangzi River Valley, and from the soil samples 16 endospore-forming strains with ARA (Acetylene Reduction Activity) were isolated, the nitrogen fixing ability was tested by the method of 15N tracer and the atom 15N% excess are ranged from 0.0297% to 0.4714%. The strains were identified as Bacillus licheniformis, B. subtilis, B. azotoformans, B. cereus, B. pumilus, B. brevis, B. megaterium, B. firmu.
12548978	A CMS line specific mtDNA band TA1 was isolated by comparing the mtDNAs of CMS line and maintainer line using AFLP technique. The Northern blot analysis of the TA1 mtDNA fragment show that it transcripts only one RNA molecular each in CMS line, maintain line and the first filial generation, but the RNA moleculars are different among each other. By sequencing, the fragment is found to be 202 base pairs in length. It contains code ATG, ATT, AGA and AGG, two small repeated sequences 5'TGTAC3' and 5'ATTATTTT3' and one small inverted-repeated sequence 5'GGGAAACA3'. The results imply that the mtDNA fragment may be a coding region and may be relative to CMS of Hong Lian type rice.
12549028	Six media (MA:Mating agar, HA:Hay agar, HCA:Hay cube agar, RSA:Rice shell agar, IHA:additional nutrition in HA and SDA:Sabouraudia dextrose agar) were compared for their efficiencies of the mating test for Cryptococcus neoformans. The positive rates in 2-week-cultivation were 95% (HCA and RSA), 86% (HA), 38% (MA and SDA) and 24% (IHA). The streaking inoculation was equally replaced by the dot inoculation for the mating tests. However, the dot method saves much more materials, and is suitable for testing in large number of isolates. Additionally, the precultivation of the tester and tested isolates in broth medium (YMPDB) could enhance the positive mating rates.
12549043	Previous study has showed that apoptosis-like cell death can be induced under moderate salt stress in plants. In this paper, we studied the cell death induced by salt stress in maize, rice and tobacco roots utilizing DNA Laddering, paraffin sectioning-based TUNEL and chromosome spreading-based TUNEL simultaneously. The characteristic morphological and biochemical features showed apoptosis induced by salt stress may be a universal phenomenon in plants, but some differences may lie in various species. These results provided a valuable insight into studying the physiological mechanism of stress resistance in plants. In addition, we compared the in situ labelling technique based on chromosome spreading with that based on paraffin sectioning. We proposed according to the results that chromosome spreading-based in situ labeling technique should be suitable to detect individual cell death qualitatively and quantitatively with high efficiency, low background and detailed description of apoptotic changes at chromosome, nuclear and DNA levels.
12549047	An experiment on suspending rice cell cultures in sucrose solution and on optical density (OD) value in culture solution at 576 nm wave width was carried out, the result indicates that suspension rate (%) of suspensions, while suspending in 0.76 mol/L sucrose solution for 15 minutes at room temperature, can be employed as an judgment criterion of cell state. Suspending cell suspension in 0.76 mol/L sucrose solution is also a good approach on selecting cells from suspension cell mass, as a result, it is beneficial to establishing cell suspension. The browning of cell suspension is related to the necrosis degree of suspension cells. OD value of cell suspension liquid at 576 nm can be taken as a criterion with which the necrosis degree of cell suspension can be evaluated.
12549087	The envelope glycoprotein gD gene of pseudorabies virus Ea strain was cloned via PCR technique. Sequence analysis displayed 98% nucleotide sequence homology and 97% deduced amino acid sequence homology between our cloned gD gene and PRV Rice strain gD gene. The recombinant transfer plasmid pSX35A-gD was obtained by inserting D gene into the baculovirus transfer vector pSX35A with whole-phase promoter cassette, then transfected insect cell Hi5 with linearized AcMNPV-OCC- virus DNA, and formed recombinant baculoviruses AcMNPV-OCC(+)-gD by homologous recombination in insect cell. Recombinant baculoviruses infected insect cell Hi5 after being purified by plaque assay. Both SDS-PAGE and Western-blotting showed glycoprotein gD with a molecular weight of about 47 kD was expressed specifically, product was about 6.2% of total cellular protein, and expressed gD was of immunogenicity.
12549187	Secondary database construction is an important subject in the field of bioinformatics. As the full genomic sequences of some organisms are being completed and followed by structural and functional studies, construction of secondary database becomes essential on the agenda. The rice dwarf virus (RDV) is a pathogen infecting rice in China, Japan and the Southeastern Asia region and leading to considerable economic loss. Based on the data generated from recent genomic research and earlier biochemical studies scattered in various primary databases and scientific journals, we have constructed a compact, user-friendly and non-redundant job-oriented secondary database. This work will provide compiled useful information for plant molecular biologists as well as in achieving preliminary experiences in secondary database construction.
12549213	Pb3 (po4)2-precipitation was used to study the ATPase activities both in fertile and sterile anthers of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Marxie). At big-vacuole pollen stage, tapetum of the fertile anthers showed high ATPase activity in their nuclei. In fertile pollen, ATPase was localized on the outside surface of the exine and in the nucleus both at big-vacuole and at bi-nucleate pollen stage. At late bi-nucleate pollen stage, a large amount of Pb3 (PO4)2 precipitated in endintine of the fertile pollen. In sterile anthers, tapetum was fully degenerated at big-vacuole pollen stage. In sterile pollen, ATPase was localized both on the plasmamembrane and in intine. These phenomena lasted to the bi-nucleate pollen stage. In addition, most of the sterile pollen did not show well-developed endintine. Based on the above results, we suggested that abortive tapetum could not provide enough nutrition for pollen development, and the high ATPase activity both on plasma membrane and in intine would likely result in ATP shortage in sterile anthers.
12549216	Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with metaphase preparations, we localized a transferred barnase-psl DNA sequence onto chromosomes in 8 rice transgenic plants. All the tested rice transgenic lines showed hybridization signals on the middle and terminal regions of chromosome arms except for those close to centromeres. In two lines, two different integration sites were identified, and the other lines showed only one integration site. With the aid of Southern analysis and expression detection, we found that the barnase tended to show a higher level expression in the lines whose integration sites near the distal regions of chromosomes, while the expression level became lower in the lines whose integration sites near the centromeres. This result suggested a possible relationship between chromosomal location of transgenes and the expression level. However it showed no obvious relationship between copy numbers and expression levels. In most cases, the results of multi-color FISH showed that barnase-ps1 always integrated at the same position on the chrmosome as the reporter genes(pHctinG).
12549327	A broad host range vector pLA2917 containing ntrC gene or ntrC-lacZ fusion were constructed, namely pLAC1 and pLAC2. The plasmids pLAC1 and pLAC2 were introduced into A. faecalis wild type strain A1501 by conjugation, subsequently to abtain A15C1 and A15C2. The expression and regulation of ntrC gene of A. faecalis associated with rice roots was investigated under the condition of the associative nitrogen fixation using X-Gal decoration method, micrograph and ntrC partially deletion mutant. The blue precipitation was strongly existed in parenchyma cells as well as in the lateral root primordial. It showed that ntrC gene could express at much higher level in these sites. In the presence of ammonia, the number of multi-copy ntrC conjugatants colonized on surface of rice roots is higher than that of wild type A1501, and the colonization of ntrC mutant is weakest among these three strains. This provided an evidence that ntrC gene might be involved in procedure of colonization of A. faecalis to rice roots.
12552824	A 1.8 kb HinfI fragment carrying the chitinase gene (chiA) from Serratia marcescens was cloned into the expression vector pKK223-3 and the plasmid pMC71A, yielded the plasmid pKChiA and the plasmid pMChiA respectively. Both plasmid pKChiA and plasmid pMChiA were used to transform to the Enterobacter cloacae strain E26 and the Klebsiella oxytoca strain NG13, two nitrogen-fixing bacteria associated with rice root. The chiA gene could be highly expressed in the ChiA+ transformants of the strain E26 or the strain NG13. Cell location determination of the expressed chitinase showed that the enzyme existed not only in cell periplasm and cytoplasm, but also in extracellular broth. When the cultures were in the aftor logarithmic growthe phase, the distribution of the enzyme activity in extracellular broth, periplasm and cytoplasm were 23%-28%, 45%-51% and 21%-32%, respectively. The molecular weight of chitinase expressed in the ChiA+ transformants was 58 kD by SDS-PAGE analysis. The stability of the plasmid pMChiA in the transformants was better than that of the plasmid pKChiA.
12553646	In order to study the transfer of water-borne 137Cs and 90Sr into rice plants, pot experiments were done by growing rice plants on soils taken from rice beds near two nuclear power plants: Qinshan Nuclear Power Plant and Daya Bay Nuclear Power Plant in China. The vertical migration of 137Cs and 90Sr in the soil samples was studied, and results show that almost all the contaminants were retained in the top 1 cm of soil with at most a few percent down to 3 cm of soil. The areal transfer factors of 137Cs and 90Sr were studied by adding various activity concentrations of the two radionuclides to the irrigation water and then measuring the activity concentration in the various rice tissues. The areal transfer factors were also analyzed for their dependence on soil characteristics, time and duration of the contamination. The areal transfer factors obtained in this study refer to the absorption of the fallout nuclides deposited in the irrigation water in a rice field as opposed to other studies that deal with uniform activity concentration in the soils.
12554662	Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) guiding modifications of ribosomal RNAs and other RNAs display diverse modes of gene organization and expression depending on the eukaryotic system: in animals most are intron encoded, in yeast many are monocistronic genes and in plants most are polycistronic (independent or intronic) genes. Here we report an unprecedented organization: plant dicistronic tRNA-snoRNA genes. In Arabidopsis thaliana we identified a gene family encoding 12 novel box C/D snoRNAs (snoR43) located just downstream from tRNA(Gly) genes. We confirmed that they are transcribed, probably from the tRNA gene promoter, producing dicistronic tRNA(Gly)-snoR43 precursors. Using transgenic lines expressing a tagged tRNA-snoR43.1 gene we show that the dicistronic precursor is accurately processed to both snoR43.1 and tRNA(Gly). In addition, we show that a recombinant RNase Z, the plant tRNA 3' processing enzyme, efficiently cleaves the dicistronic precursor in vitro releasing the snoR43.1 from the tRNA(Gly). Finally, we describe a similar case in rice implicating a tRNA(Met-e) expressed in fusion with a novel C/D snoRNA, showing that this mode of snoRNA expression is found in distant plant species.
12554717	A DNA fragment corresponding to part of an SNF1 (sucrose non-fermenting-1)-related protein kinase (SnRK1) transcript was amplified by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from a wheat (Triticum aestivum) endosperm cDNA library. It was used to construct a chimaeric gene, pUasSnRKN, comprising a ubiquitin promoter, the SnRK1 PCR product in the antisense orientation and the nopaline synthase (Nos) gene terminator. This construct was used in transient gene expression experiments in cultured wheat embryos together with a series of reporter gene constructs. These included the wheat alpha amylase gene alpha-Amy2 promoter with UidA (Gus) coding region (palpha2GT), rice actin promoter with Gus (pActIDGus), ubiquitin promoter with Gus (pAHC25) and actin promoter with green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene (pAct1Is-GFP1). All of the reporter genes were found to be active when bombarded into scutellae isolated from immature grains at 25 d post-anthesis and incubated on MS medium for 24 h prior to bombardment. However, co-bombardment of palpha2GT with equimolar amounts of pUasSnRKN resulted in no detectable Gus activity, indicating that the antisense SnRK1 construct repressed the alpha-Amy2 promoter. Co-bombardment with pUasSnRKN had no effect on the activity of the other promoters used in the study. A triple bombardment with palpha2GT, pAct1Is-GFP-1 and pUasSnRKN resulted in clear green fluorescence, indicating that the bombarded cells were still viable, but no Gus activity. RT-PCR analysis showed clearly that the antisense SnRK1 gene was expressing. Northern and RT-PCR analyses confirmed that SnRK1 and both alpha-amylase genes, alpha-Amy1 and alpha-Amy2, are expressed in cultured wheat embryos harvested from grain 25 d post-anthesis. Expression of alpha-Amy1 and alpha-Amy2 was up-regulated by sugar starvation.
12555573	Bacillus subtilis B034, an antagonistic bacteria isolated from the phyllosphere of rice, strongly inhibits the growth of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae which causes the rice bacterial blight. Crude extract was obtained by precipitation of the cell-free culture of B034 with 70% saturated (NH4)2SO4. The suspension of the precipitate strongly inhibits Xanthomonas oryzae pv. o-ryzae, and it is thermostable, resistant to trypsin, partial sensitive to proteinase K, pronase E and chloroform. Its active pH range is wide, from 4.0 to more than 12.0, relative more stable in high pH. Two antagonistic peaks were obtained from the crude extract of B034 after Phenyl-Sepharose CL-4B, DEAE-Sephacel and FPLC Superdex 75 HR 10/30 column chromatography. One of these two peaks, named P2, was showed only single band with 50.3 kD and pI6.25 in SDS-PAGE and PAGE-IEF, respectively. The N-terminal partial sequence of protein P2 was analyzed.
12556154	Possible coinfections with Orientia tsutsugamushi the causative agent of scrub typhus, were prospectively evaluated in rice farmers hospitalized with leptospirosis in Northeast Thailand. Of 22 adults with leptospirosis diagnosed by the microscopic agglutination test, 9 also had serologic evidence of scrub typhus. Of 9 individuals with possible coinfections, 5 had signs or symptoms typical of scrub typhus and atypical of leptospirosis. Patients who appeared to have mixed infections had significantly higher median platelet counts and significantly lower median serum bilirubin and creatinine concentrations (P < 0.05, Mann-Whitney U test) than did individuals with leptospirosis alone. One patient with serologic evidence of scrub typhus and leptospirosis was treated only with penicillin, to which scrub typhus is not sensitive. Respiratory distress worsened during therapy, and the patient died of respiratory failure. Physicians should consider the possibility of scrub typhus infection in leptospirosis patients who respond poorly to treatment or who have atypical disease manifestations.
12557367	The complete gI was cloned from the genomic DNA of Pseudorabies virus (PRV) Ea strain and the DNA sequence was determined by Sanger's sequencing technique. The nucleotide and deduced animo acids sequences indicated that the gI gene of PRV Ea strain is composed of 1101 base pairs and could encode 366 animo acids residues. The result of predicted II class structure showed that gI is a typical I class envelope protein. When compared with PRV Rice strain, there were multiple mutations in the gI gene of PRV Ea strain, and the diversity of amino acid residues also existed, especially the deletion of two bases which results in the change of the reading frame and there were additional 16 animo acids residues in the potential cytoplasmic domains of Ea strain. The fragment containing the complete gI gene was further sub-cloned into the downstream of CMV promoter of eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3.1+, resulting in a recombinant expression plasmid pSB209. pSB209 was transfected into PK-15 cell lines and the cells expressing gI were obtained in the selection of G418. Expressed protein was further detected by Indirect Immunofluorescence Assay(IFA). In order to explore the function of gI in the viral replication, the attenuated live vaccine strain, Bartha in which the gI is deleted, was chosen to determine the plaques forming units (pfu) and the tissue culture infectious dose(TCID50) in PK-15 cell lines expressing the gI(PKgI). The data showed that the pfu and TCID50 in PKgI were 164% and 200% of those in control cell lines respectively. The above results indicated that the gI involve in and accelerate the viral replication.
12557388	Four strains of thermophilic cellulolytic anaeobic bacteria were isolated from fresh feces, heat compost, cellulolytic mixed culture with a method based on adherence of cellulolytic bacteria to cellulose. The cells of isolates were straight or slightly curved rods that were 0.4 micron-0.6 micron x 3 microns-15 microns, Gram negative, strictly anaerobic, sulfate reduction negative, spore-forming bacteria. Most of the cells had oval terminal spores, while subterminal spores, middle spores, two or more spores also could be observed and spore formation could occurred in any position. The isolates degraded cellulose filter paper, cellulose powder Whatman CF II, microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose powder MN300 and unpretreated maize stem core, sugarcane residue and rice straw. The pH and temperature ranges for growth on cellulose were 6.2-8.9 and 45 degrees C-65 degrees C respectively with the optima, 7.0-7.5 and 55 degrees C-60 degrees C, respectively. The major fermentation products from cellulose were acetic acid, ethanol, CO2, H2. The isolates could ferment cellobiose, glucose, fructose, maltose, and sorbital. The phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA suggested strain EVA1 was the closest relative of Clostridium thermocellum with 99.8% sequence similarity.
12557490	The most oxidized zone 0-1.5 mm of root, which determines the high number of aerobic diazotrophic microorganisms, the reduced zone 1.5-4.5 mm, where their quantity was decreased and maximum of anaerobic nitrogen-fixing bacteria development observed as well as the reducing zone 4.5-7.5 mm, in which aerobic, obligate and facultative anaerobic bacteria coexist, have been discovered in the rice root exudations and their decomposition products.
12557659	A comparative study was made between the leaves of Echinochloa crusgalli grown at 580 (FACE) and 380 (control, ambient air) mumol CO2 mol-1 air by observation of net photosynthetic rates (Pn) and the contents of soluble protein and the key enzyme of photosynthetic carbon assimilation, Rubisco. When measured at the ambient air CO2 concentration (380 mumol.mol-1), Pn were significantly lower in leaves grown under FACE conditions than that in those leaves grown in the ambient air. This indicates that photosynthetic acclimation to high CO2 occurs in the leaves grown under FACE conditions. Also, the stomatal conductance (Gs) and intercellular CO2 concentration (Ci) were decreased significantly in the leaves grown under FACE. The content of total soluble protein was much lower in the leaves grown under FACE conditions than that the in the control, and the content of Rubisco was also decreased in the FACE leaves, but the difference was not significant. From these results it is deduced that the photosynthetic acclimation to high CO2 in Echinochloa crusgalli leaves grown under FACE conditions is mainly related to the partial closure of stomata and the decrease in soluble protein containing some enzymes.
12557660	The net photosynthetic rate (Pn), water use efficiency (WUE), and apparent quantum yield of carbon assimilation of rice leaves were boserved contrastively under ambient air (380 mumol.mol-1 CO2) and FACE (580 mumol.mol-1CO2). The results showed that the observed index under FACE were significantly higher than those under ambient air. Nevertheless, along with the time of high CO2 treatment prolonged, the enhancement effect of high CO2 on net photosynthetic rate declined gradually. At the same CO2 concentration, Pn and carboxylation efficiency (CE) in rice leaves under FACE were lower than those under ambient air. Although the stomatal conductances in FACE leaves was obviously lower than that in ambient leaves, their intercellular CO2 concentrations were not significantly different, which implied that the photosynthetic down-regulation in rice leaves grown under FACE was not caused by the decrease of stomatal conductance.
12557661	Effect of Free-Air CO2 enrichment (FACE, 200 mumol.mol-1 higher than CK) on rice yield and its components under field condition were studied with a Japonica variety 99-15. Results showed that FACE treatment had no obvious effect on plant height and number of leaves on main stem, but could quicken growth process of rice, shorten the whole growth duration. Increment of nitrogen application rate could weaken the effect of FACE on whole growth duration. The number of tillers and panicles, and fulfilled-grain percentage increased significantly under FACE treatment, whereas spikelets per panicle decreased. FACE treatment could significantly increase grain yield of rice, especially when higher rate of nitrogen fertilizer was applied. Increasing spikelets per panicle and spikelets per unit area under FACE treatment would result in marked increment of rice yield. Increasing nitrogen application rate was an important approach to increase spikelets per panicle and spikelets per unit area under FACE treatment.
12557662	Effect of Free-Air CO2 Enrichment (FACE), 200 mumol.mol-1CO2 elevation under field condition, on the number of differentiated, retrograded, and survived primary and secondary branches and their spikelets in rice was investigated, and the percentage of retrograded branches and spikelets under FACE treatment were also calculated. Results showed that the number of differentiated primary and secondary branches, the number and percentage of retrograded primary branches per panicle were not significantly affected by FACE, but the number and percentage of retrograded secondary branches per panicle significantly increased under FACE treatment, which resulted in the significant decrease of survived secondary banches. FACE had no significant effect on the number of differentiated, retrograded and survived spikelets on the primary branches per panicle. The number of differentiated spikelets on secondary branches per panicle was not significantly affected by FACE, but FACE treatment significantly increased the number and percentage of retrograded spikelets on the secondary branches per panicle. Significant decrease of survived spikelets per panicle under FACE treatment was chiefly caused by marked increase of retrograded spikelets on the secondary branches of survived primary branches. FACE treatment significantly increased the surviving percentage of spikelets on the primary branches per panicle, while that on the secondary branches significantly decreased under FACE treatment.
12557663	Effect of FACE, 200 mumol.mol-1 CO2 elevation under field condition in this study, on nitrogen accumulation and nitrogen use efficiency in rice was investigated. Results showed that nitrogen content (%) in rice plant sampled at different growth stages decreased significantly under FACE treatment, but FACE had no obvious effect on nitrogen accumulation in rice plant due to the significant enhancement in dry matter production. FACE treatment resulted in the significant increase in nitrogen use efficiency for biomass production (NUEp) which was measured at 28th day after transplanting, at heading and at maturity, respectively. Significant increase in nitrogen use efficiency for grain output (NUEg) and nitrogen harvest index (NHI) under FACE treatment was also observed in this study. Nitrogen content (%) and nitrogen accumulation in rice plant were increased under high N, but nitrogen use efficiency in rice plant were decreased.
12557664	FACE (Free-air Carbon Dioxide Enrichment) was used to study the effects of elevated CO2 on rice (Oryza sativa) growth, tissue C/N, N and P concentration and uptake at different development stages under two N and two P levels. Results showed that elevated CO2 increased dry matter accumulation in rice stem, ear and root. Leaf dry matter was increased at tillering stage and no significant effect was found at jointing, heading and ripening stages. N concentration of stem and leaf was decreased. Ear N concentration at heading stage was increased but was decreased at ripening stage. No significant effect was found on root N concentration at tillering stage but root N concentration at jointing, heading and ripening was decreased. Leaf P concentration at jointing, heading and ripening was increased but no significant effect was found on P concentration in stem, ear and root. C content in various tissues changed unremarkably and the ratio of C over N (C/N) was increased. Elevated CO2 significantly increased P uptake in aboveground tissues; and increased N uptake, but the difference was not statistically significant. N and P fertilization had no significant effect on various tissue dry biomass. Tissue N content at higher N fertilization was higher than at lower N fertilization but no such effect of P fertilization on tissue P content was found. At higher N fertilization, elevated CO2 increased the ratio of below-ground biomass over above-ground biomass at ripening stage. Possible reasons are discussed for the differences of tissue N and P content and the ratio of below-ground biomass over above-ground biomass between elevated and ambient atmospheric CO2 concentrations.
12557665	The growth and competition of a C3 crop rice and a C4 weed, barnyardgrass under FACE(free-air carbon dioxide enrichment) conditions were studied by field experiment. The results showed that under FACE condition, the biomass and yield, leaf number, tiller number, and leaf area index of rice increased, while those of barnyardgrass decreased. Both of the leaf area indexed of rice and barnyardgrass were decreased, while their net assimilation rate increased. When the ratio of planting density of rice and barnyardgrass was 1:1, all of the ratio of biomass, yield, leaf area index, tiller and net assimilation rate were increased under FACE condition. It indicated that the competition between rice and barnyardgrass changed under FACE condition. The competition ability of rice(C3 crop) was enhanced relatively, while that of barnyardgrass weakened.
12557666	In this study, the free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) system (setup at at Anzhen, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province in 2001) was used to investigate the effects of FACE on rice canopy microclimate. The rice canopy microclimate observations were carried out from August 26 to October 13, 2001, when the rice crops were at the heading to maturing development stage. The results showed that FACE reduced the rice leaf stomatal conductance. The rice leaf stomatal conductance difference between FACE and ambient was larger among upper layer leaves than among lower layer leaves and at heading and milk filling stages than at maturing stage. FACE increased daytime rice canopy temperature but had little effect on nighttime rice canopy temperature. The daytime rice canopy temperature difference between FACE and ambient was larger at heading and milk filling stages than at maturing stage. From heading to flowering, the daily maximum rice canopy temperature difference between FACE and ambient reached 1.2 degrees C under fine weather condition. The average daytime rice canopy temperature from flowering to maturing stage was about 0.43 degree C. Daytime air temperature inside rice canopy was also affected by FACE. Daytime air temperature inside rice canopy was higher in FACE plot than in ambient plot. The value of daytime air temperature difference between FACE and ambient increased with the increase of solar radiation and varied with height. The maximum daytime air temperature difference between FACE and ambient varied between 0.47-1.2 degrees C and 0.37-0.8 degree C at middle of canopy and canopy height, respectively. Air humidity and nighttime air temperature inside rice canopy were not significantly affected by FACE. These results indicate that FACE reducing rice leaf stomatal conductance was the major cause of the increase of canopy temperature and inside canopy air temperature in FACE plot. The higher canopy temperature and inside canopy air temperature in FACE plot resulted in the earlier maturity of rice crop in FACE plot than that in the ambient plot.
12557668	Effects of elevated atmospheric CO2 on CH4 and N2O emissions during the paddy rice-growing season were examined in a FACE (free-air carbon dioxide enrichment) study. The emission fluxes of CH4 and N2O from paddy rice fields were measured using methods based on static opaque-chamber and gas chromatography techniques. Synthetic fertilizer N was amended for the rice-growing season at two rates, 150 and 250 kgN.hm-2 and the atmospheric CO2 was enriched by 200 mumol.mol-1. At both N levels, the preliminary results indicate that no significant effect of CO2 enrichment on CH4 and N2O emissions from the rice paddy fields was detected. The result on CH4 emissions is inconsistent with the most literatures, and the result on N2O emissions is consistent with the most literatures.
12557669	A method was specially designed and applied for measuring CO2 concentration of soil air over the non-waterlogged period of a rice-wheat rotation on an available area of about 1.6 m2 in a FACE (free-air CO2 enrichment) study. Based on measuring the CO2 concentration over the soil profile of 0-30 cm in depth using this method, the CO2 profile in the soils of wheat fields under elevated and ambient CO2 and the bare land under ambient CO2 was investigated and some preliminary results were obtained. Within 0-30 cm in soil depth, CO2 in the pores of the upper soil layers vertically diffused upwards much more quickly than that in the lower soil layers. During the period with active wheat growth, elevated atmospheric CO2 by 200 +/- 40 mumol.mol-1 significantly increased the CO2 concentration in soil air within 0-30 cm in depth by 14% +/- 5% (t-test, P < 0.001).
12557670	A Free Air CO2 Enrichment (FACE) system for rice and winter wheat rotation was established, elevated CO2 concentration was controlled to 200 mumol.mol-1 above ambient by computer system platform according to ambient CO2 concentration variation, wind direction, wind speed, canopy height and day-night changing. Experiments showed that the main factors affecting control precision are wind speed, crop and soil respiration and thickness of diffuse layer. After parameters adjustment, in daytime the time fraction for control precision achieve 80% is 83%, in night is 68%. The CO2 concentrations distribution in FACE rings are uniformity. The set CO2 is 557 mol.mol-1 in daytime and 608 mol.mol-1 in night. In 2001 rice season the target achievement ratios (TAR) were 1.03 after sunrise and 1.09 after sunset, respectively.
12557671	A large amount data are brought from daily control, data collection and processing of FACE platform. A FACE system control, data collection and processing software package written in Visual BASIC including OLE to support office functions can finish the platform control, data collection, original data save and backup, daily data processing, monthly data processing and whole time FACE system control status analysis functions, so FACE system controllers can observe FACE system control status and keep control precision timely, and the researchers can get the data they want at any moment and convenient.
12557672	A method for measuring NO and NO2 exchanges between cultivated lands and the atmosphere in a FACE (free-air CO2 enrichment) study is described. With this method, gas is sampled with a technique of static-opaque-chamber and the fluxes of NO and NO2 exchanges are determined by analyzing the NO and NO2 concentrations with a chemiluminescent NOx analyzer. Application of this method in the FACE study of a rice-wheat ecosystem has indicated that reliable data on the exchange fluxes could be obtained. Over the non-waterlogged period of a rice-wheat rotation, net emission of NO from the fields was observed, while net uptake of NO2 occurred. The daily net emission of NO did not correlated with the soil temperature, but negatively depended upon soil moisture (R2 = 0.82, P < 0.001). A significant seasonal variation in the net uptake of NO2 was observed, which was regulated by wheat growth status. The daily uptake of NO2 depended upon both soil temperature and soil moisture. The dependence for each could be described with a parabola function (for soil temperature: R2 = 0.74, P < 0.001; for soil moisture: R2 = 0.69, P < 0.001). An elevation of atmospheric CO2 by 200 +/- 40 mumol.mol-1 mitigated the net emission of NO by 19% (t-test P = 0.096) and might be possible to reduce the net uptake of NO2 by 10% (t-test P = 0.26), which was likely due to the stimulated wheat growth.
12557673	Soil fauna plays significant roles in the detritus food webs of agroecosystems, they are the essential contributors to the decomposition of soil organic matter, mineralization of plant nutrients and nutrient cycling. Some evidences indicate that soil fauna of the detritus food webs appears to show positive, neutral or negative responses to global change, especially atmospheric CO2 enrichment across different studies. Soil nematodes are representative of a large portion of this fauna, since they are abundant and trophically diverse in most soils. The free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) technology was used to expose three plots of rice (Oryza sativa) under elevated (ambient + 200 mumol.mol-1) atmospheric CO2, while three control plots were outfitted with FACE apparatus under ambient CO2. Nematode trophic groups were monitored in this study at depths of 0-5 cm and 5-10 cm during rice jointing and ripening stages in Wuxi site, China. Significant differences were found between depths and sampling dates in the total numbers of nematodes, bacterivores, plant parasites and omnivores-predators during the study period. The total numbers of nematodes and bacterivores at the 5-10 cm depth were higher in treatment plots than in control plots across all sampling dates. At 0-5 cm depth, the numbers of bacterivores were higher in treatment plots than in control plots, while those of omnivores-predators exhibited an inverse trend during the study period. Significant differences were also observed between treatment plots and control plots in the numbers of fungivores in our experiment.
12557675	Effect of enhanced ultraviolet-B radiation (280-320 nm) on growth, development and yield formation in the three rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L.) under pot conditions were investigated. The results showed that enhanced ultraviolet-B radiation decreased rice height, tiller number, total leaf area and biomass, but the inhibitory rate varied in different cultivars and developmental stages. Plant height was decreased by 9.4%-12.2% in seedling stage, plant shoot and root of dry matter were decreased by 45.3%-59.8% and 54.9%-59.0% respectively in tillering period. The leaf emergence delayed, resulting in delayed time of flowering in Shanyou 63, Nanchuan and IR65600-85 by 2d, 3d and 7d, prolonged total growth period by 3d, 4d and 9d. Net photosynthesis rate of Shanyou 63, Nanchuan and IR65600-85 were decreased by 11.9%, 12.8% and 29.7%, respectively. Attributed to decreased contents of chlorophyll a, b, carotenoid and induction kinetics parameters of Fv, Fv/Fm and Fv/Fo. Effective panicle per plant, total grain number per panicle, filled grain rate and 1000-grain weight were decreased by enhanced UV-B radiation. Consequently the grain yields were reduced by 25.2%-31.1%.
12557686	Over the past decade, free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experiments have been conducted on several agricultural crops: wheat(Triticum aestivum L.), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne), and rice(Oryza sativa L.) which are C3 grasses; sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Möench), a C4 grass; white clover (Trifolium repens), a C3 legume; potato (Solanum tuberosum L.), a C3 forb with tuber storage; and cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) and grape (Vitis vinifera L.) which are C3 woody perennials. Using reports from these experiments, the relative responses of these crops was discussed with regard to photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, canopy temperature, water use, water potential, leaf area index, shoot and root biomass accumulation, agricultural yield, radiation use efficiency, specific leaf area, tissue nitrogen concentration, nitrogen yield, carbohydrate concentration, phenology, soil microbiology, soil respiration, trace gas emissions, and soil carbon sequestration. Generally, the magnitude of these responses varied with the functional type of plant and with the soil nitrogen and water status. As expected, the elevated CO2 increased photosynthesis and biomass production and yield substantially in C3 species, but little in C4, and it decreased stomatal conductance and transpiration in both C3 and C4 species and greatly improved water-use efficiency in all the crops. Growth stimulations were as large or larger under water-stress compared to well-watered conditions. Growth stimulations of non-legumes were reduced at low soil nitrogen, whereas elevated CO2 strongly stimulated the growth of the clover legume both at ample and under low N conditions. Roots were generally stimulated more than shoots. Woody perennials had larger growth responses to elevated CO2, while at the same time, their reductions in stomatal conductance were smaller. Tissue nitrogen concentrations went down while carbohydrate and some other carbon-based compounds went up due to elevated CO2, with leaves and foliage affected more than other organs. Phenology was accelerated slightly in most but not all species. Elevated CO2 affected some soil microbes greatly but not others, yet overall activity appears to be stimulated. Detection of statistically significant changes in soil organic carbon in any one study was impossible, yet combining results from several sites and years, it appears that elevated CO2 did increase sequestration of soil carbon. Whenever possible, comparisons were made between the FACE results and those from prior chamber-based experiments reviewed in the literature. Over all the data and parameters considered in this review, there are only two parameters for which the FACE- and chamber-based data appear to be inconsistent. One is that elevated CO2 from FACE appears to reduce stomatal conductance about one and a half times more than observed in prior chamber experiments. Similarly, elevated CO2 appears to have stimulated root growth relatively more than shoot growth under FACE conditions compared to chamber conditions. Nevertheless, for the most part, the FACE- and chamber-based results have been consistent, which gives confidence that conclusions drawn from both types of data are accurate. However, the more realistic FACE environment and the larger plot size have enabled more extensive robust multidisciplinary data sets to be obtained under conditions representative of open fields in the future high-CO2 world.
12557691	The response of soil urease and phosphatase activities at different rice growth stages to free air CO2 enrichment (FACE) was studied. The results showed that comparing with the ambient atmospheric CO2 concentration (370 mumol.mol-1), FACE (570 mumol.mol-1) significantly increased the urease activity of 0-5 cm soil layer at the vigorous growth stage of rice, whole that of 5-10 cm layer had no significant change during the whole growing season. Phosphatase activity of 0-5 cm and 5-10 cm soil layers significantly increased, and the peak increment was at the vigorous growth stage of rice.
12559580	Sucrose-phosphatase (SPP; EC 3.1.3.24) catalyzes the final step in the pathway of sucrose biosynthesis and higher plants contain multiple isoforms of the enzyme encoded by different genes. The genome of the dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) contains four SPP-like genes on chromosomes 1 (AtSPP1), 2 (AtSPP2) and 3 (AtSPP3a and AtSPP3b), all of which are expressed. The genome of the monocotyledonous plant rice (Oryza sativa) also contains four SPP-like genes, which have very similar exon-intron structures to those from A. thaliana. Two cDNA clones that encode catalytically active SPP enzymes have been isolated from maize (Zea mays), showing that this species contains at least two functional SPP genes. Multiple SPP-like cDNA clones have also been identified from wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). The genomes of two cyanobacteria, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 and Anabaena sp. PCC 7120, contain single spp genes. The cyanobacterial SPPs and the N-terminal region of the higher plant enzyme share significant similarity with members of the haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) superfamily of hydrolases/phosphatases. In addition to the HAD phosphatase domain, SPP from higher plants also contains a shorter, C-terminal domain of unknown function. An SPP-like sequence from the bryophyte (moss) Physcomitrella patens also contains this C-terminal domain, indicating that its acquisition was an early event in the evolution of higher plants.
12559752	Amylopectin molecules from rice, maize, sweet potato and potato were examined by fluorescent labeling followed by gel-permeation HPLC. The number-average degree of polymerization (dp(n)) was determined to be in range of 9600-15,900. The molar-based distribution revealed the presence of three molecular species, large (dp(n) 13,400-26,500), medium (4400-8400) and small (700-2100). Their molar proportions differed by plant origin. The large species was a major component (43-63% by mole). A relatively large amount of the medium (16-28% by mole) and small (19-38%) species was found although their weight proportion was small (8-15, 1-4%, respectively). The three species from waxy rice amylopectin had a similar chain-length distribution and also a similar size-distribution of C chains. These results suggested that the three species were basically similar in cluster structure but different in number of clusters per molecule.
12559953	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade(s) is important for plant defense/stress responses. Though MAPKs have been identified and characterized in rice (Oryza sativa L.), a monocot cereal crop research model, the first upstream component of the kinase cascade, namely MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK) has not yet been identified. Here we report the cloning of a novel rice gene encoding a MAPKKK, OsEDR1, designated based on its homology with the Arabidopsis MAPKKK, AtEDR1. OsEDR1, a single copy gene in the genome of rice, encodes a predicted protein with molecular mass of 113046.13 and a pI of 9.03. Using our established two-week-old rice seedling in vitro model system, we show that OsEDR1 has a constitutive expression in seedling leaves and is further up-regulated within 15 min upon wounding by cut, treatment with the global signals jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), ethylene (ethephon, ET), abscisic acid, and hydrogen peroxide. In addition, protein phosphatase inhibitors, fungal elicitor chitosan, drought, high salt and sugar, and heavy metals also dramatically induce its expression. Moreover, OsEDR1 expression was altered by co-application of JA, SA, and ET, and required de novo synthesized protein factor(s) in its transient regulation. Furthermore, using an in vivo system we also show that OsEDR1 responds to changes in temperature and environmental pollutants-ozone and sulfur dioxide. Finally, OsEDR1 expression varied significantly in vegetative and reproductive tissues. These results suggest a role for OsEDR1 in defense/stress signalling pathways and development.
12560825
12561179	The protein-binding forms of As in polluted rice seed and their stability were studied using the methods of Sephadex chromatography. The results showed that As in rice seed was mainly combined with the proteins with apparent molecular weights of 54.5 KD and 5.5 KD. The protein-binding form of As (54.5 KD) was unstable, and was easily decomposed into stable and tiny molecular under the treatment of steaming and digestive enzyme.
12561180	With rhizoboxes, this study dealt with the distribution and conformation transformation of lead in the rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere of wheat and rice grown on red soil. The results showed that the predominant forms of lead were acid dissolved and Carb-Pb (bound to carbonates), Exch-Pb (exchangeable-Pb), and FeMnO-Pb (boud to iron and manganese oxides). Exch-Pb in the rhizosphere of both rice and wheat was much higher than those in the non-rhizosphere, which means that the activation process in the rhizosphere was very strong, and bio-available Pb greatly increased. Various levels of Pb treatment and Pb-Cd interaction also had certain effects on the distribution of lead. In treatment of low Pb concentration, FeMnO-Pb was higher than Exch-Pb, but the contrary result was observed in treatment of high Pb concentration. Both Exch-Pb and FeMnO-Pb in wheat rhizosphere decreased with an increase of Cd. Exch-Pb in rice rhizosphere was correlative to the Cd content in soil. Compared with the treatment in the absence of Cd, the activation of Exch-Pb in rice rhizosphere was weaker in 5 mg Cd.kg-1 treatment, but stronger in 10 mg Cd.kg-1 treatment.
12561226	QTLs of three milling yield traits, including brown rice (BR,%), milled rice (MR,%) and head milled rice (HR,%), were mapped using a set of 212 Lemont/Teqing RI population, an RFLP linkage map with 182 markers and a mixed model approach(QTLMapper V1.0). The population showed continuous distributions with transgressive segregation on both sides for all traits while HR had a wider variation than BR and MR. One and four main effect QTLs were detected for MR and HR. Two QTLs for HR(QHr6 and QHr7) had large additive effects. Twelve, five and sixteen pairs of digenic epistatic loci were associated with BR, MR and HR respectively. Epistasis was more important than main effect QTLs according to the mapping result. A complex relationship was observed for epistatic pairs mapped in same trait or among different traits by sharing intervals.
12561229	Mitochorndrial DNA (mtDNA), nuclear DNA (nDNA), and genomic DNA (gDNA) were individually extracted from Zhenshan 97A, Xieqingzao A and A-23, which were cytoplasmic male sterile (wild abortive, dwarf abortive and BT), and from Zhenshan 97B, Xieqingzao B and BT, which were maintainers lines. Each of them was analyzed with 500 random primers by RAPD. Six fragments specific to male sterile lines were amplified. A fragment, PWH-17, associated with wild and dwarf abortive type cytoplasmic male sterility was analyzed by Southern blotting and sequencing, and also tested by SCAR. It was 1879 bp in length, which contained 6 open reading frames and 8 repeated sequences. BLAST search revealed that partial sequence in PWH-17 showed high similarity to the upstream sequence of tRNA-Asp gene in Elytrigia elongate (GenBank accession number U14335) and wheat (X13243). The similarity ratios were 97% and 100%. It was inferred that the possible position of PWH-17 in rice (wild abortive) could be located between tRNA-Asp and Cox II, which will be discussed further.
12561431	Selenium (Se), an antioxidant, is an essential trace element to human body. It can be used as an anti-aging agent and a tumor cell proliferation inhibitor. To further investigate the effect of selenium in cancer prevention, the authors observed the influence of Se-rich rice extract on the transformation of umbilical blood B lymphocytes stimulated by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and expression of EBV early antigen(EBV-EA) in Raji cells. (1) Se-rich rice and general rice extract (dilution of 1:4 or 1:8) were added to mixture of EBV, and then umbilical blood mononuclear cells were added. Lymphoblasts transformation test was then performed. The inhibition rate of B lymphocytes transformation was calculated. (2) Raji cells stimulated by butyrate and croton oil were incubated with Se-rich rice extract. The EBV-EA positive expression rate and the inhibition rate were counted using indirect immunological flurescence method. The transformation of umbilical blood B lymphocytes stimulated by EBV was significantly inhibited by Se-rich rice extract at a concentration of 0.11 g/ml (1:8 diluted). The inhibition rate was 83.4% (P < 0.01), which was significantly higher than that of the control rice (63.1%) (P < 0.05). Se-rich rice extract showed significant inhibition on EBV-EA in Raji cells. As the extract concentration was at 0.016 microgram/ml, 0.078 g/ml, and 0.388 microgram/ml, the inhibition rates of EA were 2.85%, 12.88%, and 20.75%, respectively. The transformation of umbilical blood B lymphocytes stimulated by EB virus and expression of EBV-EA in Raji cells may be significantly inhibited by Se-rich rice extract, suggesting that Se-rich rice can be used for preventing nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
12561471	The encoding products of the disease resistance (R) gene of barley, Mlo, and the maize R gene, Hm1, do not contain the recognizable structural domains of most of the known plant R gene products. The two genes do not comply with the gene-for-gene theory in the response to pathogen infection either. Two sequences, OsMlo-1 and DFR-1 which were homologous to the barley Mlo and maize Hm1, respectively, were isolated from rice. The OsMlo-1 was mapped between two molecular markers, RZ667 and RG424, and located at a distance of 20.6 centi-Morgan (cM) from RZ667 and 6.0 cM from RG424 on rice chromosome 6. The DFR-1 was flanked by molecular markers R2635 and RG462 with an estimated genetic distance of 11.3 cM from R2635 and 23.9 cM from RG462 on rice chromosome 1. Using other published rice molecular linkage maps as references, it was found that the chromosomal locations of OsMlo-1 and DFR-1 were correspondence with two previously identified rice blast resistant QTLs (quantitative trait loci), respectively. The results suggest that the genes homologous to barley Mlo and maize Hm1 in rice may be involved in defense responses induced by pathogen infection.
12561472	The transformation mediated by Agrobacterium has been successfully applied to rice in recent years. In the previous research we have transferred the Xa21 gene into five rice varieties of China, using Agrobacterium-mediated trasformation. In this study, T-DNA flanking sequences of Xa21 transgenic rice lines were obtained by using thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR). The flanking sequences which are actual rice DNA were identified and located on molecular linkage map developed from a ZYQ8/JX17 double haploid (DH) population. A total of 22 T-DNA flanking rice sequences were isolated. Nineteen of them displayed RFLPs between the two parents, ZYQ8 and JX17, and were mapped on the rice chromosomes, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12, respectively. The genetic mapping of T-DNA integration sites in Xa21 transgenic rice will benefit the study of position effect and stable inheritance of the transgene Xa21.
12561473	A pair of near isogenic lines G205 and G71 were selected from recombinant inbred lines (RIL) of Zhong156 x Gumei2. On the resistance locus Pi-25(t), G205 had the resistant allele that was from Gumei 2 while G71 had the susceptible allele that was from Zhong156. For the genetic background, different alleles were detected on only 24 loci out of the 672 RFLP or SSLP loci surveyed. The expression profiles of G205 and G71 in response to Magnaporthe grisea were investigated using cDNA microarray containing 2200 Expression Sequence Tags (ESTs). The leaves were inoculated with the pathogen for 12 hours at 4-leaf stage and 998 genes were identified in total. Three genes were up-regulated significantly by the fungus in G205 only. The functions of two genes were known but that of the third gene were unknown. The two genes encoded casein kinase II alpha subunit and retrotransponson TOS17 insertion element respectively. Other thirty-five genes had similar expression patterns between NILs. Among them, 17 genes were up-regulated while 18 genes were down-regulated by the inoculation. The functions of 33 out of the 35 genes were known. BLAST analysis showed that all thirty-five. BLAST analysis showed that all thirty-five genes with known functions were relative to defense reactions, signal transduction, stress response, photosynthesis and sugar metabolism. Northern blot confirmed that four of five differentially displayed genes randomly selected had the same expression patterns as those detected in cDNA microarray. Two of them were up-regulated genes encoding casein kinase II alpha subunit and glycine-rich protein (Grp), and the other two down-regulated genes encoding nitrilase-associated protein and 18S small subnit ribosomal RNA gene respectively. Northern blot also revealed that the expression of Grp was consistently up-regulated from 0 to 36 h after the inoculation of the fungus. These results showed that cDNA microarray was a useful tool to study the molecular mechanisms of disease resistance in plants.
12561849
12561855
12561959	Brown plant hopper, a major pest in rice causes "hopper burn" in the field. The resistance gene for brown planthopper was mapped by using 20 recombinant inbred lines (RIL's) derived from a cross between resistant line Oryza. officinalis derivative (IR 54742-2-21-12-17-6) and a susceptible rice cultivar ASD 16 using bulked segregant analysis. On an average of 4 loci were amplified and two RAPD primers amplified loci that co-segregated with resistance/susceptibility. The segregating RAPD loci were mapped using Mapmaker programme into 13 groups. The expected and the 95% confidence level were found to be 15.2 and 47.7 cM respectively, confirming the location of the brown planthopper resistant gene on the region of chromosome 4. These RAPD markers will accelerate breeding programme for brown planthopper resistance.
12562023	Four bacterial species [Branhamella catarrhalis (gram -ve), Brochothrix species (gram -ve), Micrococcus luteus (gram +ve) and Bacillus firmus (gram +ve)], isolated from the soil polluted with cane sugar factory effluents, were found capable of growing on solid media supplemented with indulin AT (a polymeric industrial lignin) as sole C source. All the four species could metabolize cinnamic acid (a non-hydroxylated phenylpropanoid) as sole carbon source with significant suppression on addition of readily metabolizable carbon source (glucose). However, Br. catarrhalis and Brochothrix sp. were capable of metabolizing ferulic acid, but could not do so on addition of glucose. Of the four species, Br. catarrhalis could evolve significant amount of 14CO2 from U-14C (lignin)-lignocellulose prepared from rice stalks (ca. 10% of the added radioactivity in 3 weeks), in addition to solubilization of another 11.7% radioactivity in culture filtrate. The other three species could not significantly evolve 14CO2, though a significant fraction of added 14C-lignin (6.1 to 11.2%) could be solubilized into culture filtrate, suggesting lack of ring-cleavage or other CO2 evolving mechanisms in these species.
12563762	To establish a method for continuous culture of Entamoeba gingivalis(E. g.). The culture conditions of E. g. were compared by observing its size and survival time at room temperature. The growth of E. g. under different culture conditions including culture medium, temperature and pH were compared. The accompanying bacteria associate with E. g. FJ4 were isolated and identified. The average size of E. g. was 13.19 microns-49.93 microns x 9.88 microns-30.74 microns. The optimal culture conditions of E. g. were: modified LES or YES medium, pH 6.4-6.7, nutritional liquids such as Locke's solution or yolk liquid with 20% bovine serum, penicillin, streptomycin and rice flour at 35 degrees C. Reproduction of E. g. peaked at the fourth day of incubation, and the survival time of E. g. was 120 h-168 h. E. g. could be continuously cultured in modified LES or YES medium by inoculating once every four days.
12564243	During August 2001 a microbiological study of ready-to-eat cooked rice from take-aways and of chicken sandwiches made on the premises from sandwich bars was undertaken. The intention was to identify risk factors in the production, storage and handling of cooked rice and sandwiches, and to establish their effect on microbiological quality. Examination of cooked rice revealed that the majority of samples (87%; 442 of 508) were of satisfactory/acceptable microbiological quality; 50 (10%) were unsatisfactory, and 16 (3%) were of unacceptable quality due to Bacillus cereus and/or other Bacillus spp in excess of 10(5) cfu/g. The microbiological quality of cooked rice was associated with cuisine type (p < 0.00001), rice type (p < 0.01), cooking (p < 0.01), serving methods (p < 0.00001), and management food hygiene training (p < 0.01). Examination of chicken sandwiches found that most (75%; 335 of 449) were of satisfactory/acceptable microbiological quality and 114 (25%) were unsatisfactory. Acceptable microbiological quality of sandwiches was associated with sandwich bars that had hazard analysis in place (p < 0.05). Smaller businesses, as indicated by Local Authority Inspectors' Consumer at Risk scores, were more likely to have samples classified as unsatisfactory or unacceptable compared to larger businesses (p < 0.001). The majority (90%) of premises had hand-washing facilities accessible and available for use, although only over half (55%) were correctly used as judged by the sampling officer. Where the manager of the premises had received some form of food hygiene training, food safety procedures such as the hazard analysis system were more likely to be in place (p < 0.0001).
1256481
12564892	Arsenic contaminated groundwater is used extensively in Bangladesh to irrigate the staple food of the region, paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.). To determine if this irrigation has led to a buildup of arsenic levels in paddy fields, and the consequences for arsenic exposure through rice ingestion, a survey of arsenic levels in paddy soils and rice grain was undertaken. Survey of paddy soils throughout Bangladesh showed that arsenic levels were elevated in zones where arsenic in groundwater used for irrigation was high, and where these tube-wells have been in operation for the longest period of time. Regression of soil arsenic levels with tube-well age was significant. Arsenic levels reached 46 microg g(-1) dry weight in the most affected zone, compared to levels below l0 microg g(-1) in areas with low levels of arsenic in the groundwater. Arsenic levels in rice grain from an area of Bangladesh with low levels of arsenic in groundwaters and in paddy soils showed that levels were typical of other regions of the world. Modeling determined, even these typical grain arsenic levels contributed considerably to arsenic ingestion when drinking water contained the elevated quantity of 0.1 mg L(-1). Arsenic levels in rice can be further elevated in rice growing on arsenic contaminated soils, potentially greatly increasing arsenic exposure of the Bangladesh population. Rice grain grown in the regions where arsenic is building up in the soil had high arsenic concentrations, with three rice grain samples having levels above 1.7 microg g(-1).
12567689	To determine the susceptibility of Anopheles anthropophagus and Anopheles sinensis to deltamethrin and DDT in an area where different counter-measures had been adopted. The mortality of the vectors was examined by using the standardised WHO test. The mortality for tentative diagnostic dose in An. anthropophagus to deltamethrin were 83.8%, 83.7% and 84.7%, respectively in the areas where impregnated net had been used for 1 year or 3 years and DDT residual spraying had been carried out for 3 years, suggesting that An. anthropophagus was an initially resistant group. The LT50 were 8.69, 7.48 and 9.87 min, respectively. The mortality for tentative diagnostic dose in An. sinensis to deltamethrin and DDT were 76.5%, 57.0% and 79.0%, respectively in three survey areas, suggesting that An. sinensis was a resistant group. The LT50 were 12.0, 15.4 and 11.2 min, respectively. The mortality for tentative diagnostic dose in An. sinensis to DDT was 95.8% in impregnated net area, suggesting that An. anthropophagus was an initially resistant group. The LC50 was 0.73%. The mortality for tentative diagnostic dose in An. sinensis to DDT was 44%, suggesting that An. sinensis was a highly resistant group. The LC50 was more than 4%. A substantial use of insecticides in the rice paddy field has resulted in resistance of An. sinensis, whereas no apparent resistance of An. anthropophgus has been found.
12567722	To establish a method for continuous culture of Entamoeba gingivalis (E. g.) and study the pathogenicity of E. g.. The culture conditions of E. g. were compared by observing its growth and reproduction. The pathogenicity of E. g. was studied by investigating its infection rate in humans and observing the relationship between E. g. infection and periodontal abscess in rats and the in vitro effect of some drugs. The optimal culture condition of E. g. was modified LES medium containing Locke's solution with 20% bovine serum, penicillin, streptomycin and rice starch. Reproduction of E. g. peaked at the fourth day of incubatoin, E. g. could live continuously for 120 to 168 h. The infection rate of E. g. was higher in patients with periondontal diseases than in healthy groups. The animal test showed that E. g. could cause periondontal abscess in rats. The levels of acid phosphatase and MDA were higher in patients with E. g.-positive periondontal disease than in healthy individuals. Metronidazole and SBF are effective against E. g.. E. g. could grow very well in modified LES medium, and cause periondontal abscess in patients with low immunity.
12568670	The aim of the present study was to assess the principal food sources of energy and nutrients among Spanish children. We used a cross-sectional study design, based on results obtained from a food-frequency questionnaire. The sample included 1112 children, aged 6-7 years, from Cadiz, Madrid, Orense and Murcia, Spain. Children were selected through random cluster-sampling in schools. We analysed the percentage contributed by each food item to total energy and nutrient intake. The most important food sources were: white bread in the case of carbohydrate (13.4 %); olive oil in the case of total lipids (18.3 %) and monounsaturated fatty acids (29.2 %); whole milk in the case of protein (10.2 %) and saturated fatty acids (14.9 %); chips (French fried potatoes) in the case of polyunsaturated fatty acids (30.4 %). The greatest proportion of Na, consumed in excess, came from salt added to meals. Ham ranked second as a source of saturated fats. Fruits and green leafy vegetables proved to have great relevance as sources of fibre and vitamins, though with regard to the latter, it was observed that fortified foods (breakfast cereals, dairy products, fruit juices, etc.) had come to play a relevant role in many cases. In conclusion, the nutritional profile of Spanish school-aged children aged 6-7 years could be improved by nutritional policies targeted at limiting their consumption of ham (cured or cooked) and of salt added to meals, replacing whole milk with semi-skimmed milk, encouraging the consumption of products rich in complex carbohydrates already present in children's diets (bread, pasta, rice) and promoting less fatty ways of cooking food.
12569397	The nucleosome assembly protein 1 (NAP1) is considered to be a conserved histone chaperone, facilitating the assembly of nucleosomes in all eukaryotes. However, studies in yeast and animal cells also indicated that NAP1 proteins have diverse functions likely independent of nucleosome-assembly activity. Here, we describe the isolation and characterization of cDNAs encoding NAP1-like proteins from the monocotyledon rice (Oryza sativa L.) and the dicotyledon tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). Northern-blot analysis demonstrated that the two rice NAP1-like genes are predominantly expressed in stem tissues such as root and shoot apical meristems as well as in young flowers. During the cell cycle, all four tobacco NAP1-like genes are highly expressed, with one of them showing a slightly increased expression at the G1/S transition. These results are consistent with a role for plant NAP1-like proteins in cell division. In vitro binding assays revealed that different NAP1-like proteins bind, with distinct relative binding strengths, to different classes of histone. Intracellular localization analyses showed that some NAP1-like proteins could be targeted into the nucleus whereas others are exclusively cytoplasm-localized. It is thus likely that different plant NAP1-like proteins have distinct functions in vivo. Plant NAP1-like proteins were observed to concentrate around the metaphase plate and in the phragmoplast, suggesting a role in mitotic events and cytokinesis.
12569401	In order to understand the characteristics of recombinant protein expression and sublocalization in rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm, we examined the expression level of human lysozyme protein and its subcellular location in transgenic rice seeds driven by rice glutelin and globulin promoters and signal peptides. A time course of human lysozyme expression during endosperm development was analyzed. The results showed that the expression profile of recombinant protein accumulation in endosperm paralleled that of the two storage proteins. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that human lysozyme and storage proteins co-localized to type-II protein bodies. Both promoter-signal peptide parings targeted recombinant protein to the protein bodies. In addition, a transgenic line with a higher lysozyme expression level exhibited morphologically different protein bodies with an unbalanced composition of lysozyme and native storage proteins. The high-level expression of recombinant protein distorted the trafficking and sorting of native storage proteins in rice endosperm and affected the expression of native storage protein.
12569408	In this work we test the hypothesis that yield of rice (Oryza sativa L.) can be enhanced by increasing endosperm activity of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP), a key enzyme in starch biosynthesis. The potential for increases in yield exist because rice initiates more seeds than are taken to maturity and possesses excess photosynthetic capacity that could be utilized if there were more demand for assimilate. Following an approach already shown to be successful in wheat, experiments were designed to increase demand for assimilate by increasing the capacity for starch synthesis in endosperm. This was accomplished by transforming rice with a modified maize AGP large subunit sequence (Sh2r6hs) under control of an endosperm-specific promoter. This altered subunit confers upon AGP decreased sensitivity to allosteric inhibition by inorganic phosphate (Pi) and enhanced heat stability, potentially leading to higher AGP activity in vivo. The Sh2r6hs transgene increased AGP activity in developing endosperm by 2.7-fold in the presence of Pi. Increases in AGP activity in transgenic seeds compared with controls were maximal between 10-15 days after anthesis. Starch content of individual seeds at harvest was not increased, but seed weight per plant and total plant biomass were each increased by more than 20%. Increased endosperm AGP activity thus stimulates setting of additional seeds and overall plant growth rather than increasing yield of seeds already set. Results demonstrate that deregulation of endosperm AGP increases overall plant sink strength, leading to larger, more productive plants in a manner similar to that in wheat having similar genetic modification.
12569412	In suspension-cultured rice (Oryza sativaL.) cells, jasmonic acid (JA) functions as a signal transducer in elicitor N-acetylchitoheptaose-induced phytoalexin production. Differential screening of a cDNA library constructed using poly(A)(+) RNA from suspension-cultured rice cells treated with JA (10(-4) M) for 2 h yielded a cDNA for a gene that responded to exogenous JA by an increase in mRNA level. Nucleotide sequence analysis indicated that the cDNA encodes an homologue of the yeast Old Yellow Enzyme. The deduced amino acid sequence was very similar to the sequences of 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductases (OPR) 1 and 2 from Arabidopsis thaliana(AtOPR1 and AtOPR2) and OPR1 from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) (LeOPR1). The cDNA-encoded protein purified from recombinant Escherichia coli cells as a hexahistidine-tagged fusion protein exhibited OPR activity similar to that of AtOPR1, AtOPR2, and LeOPR1, which catalyze reduction of (-)- cis-12-oxophytodienoic acid (OPDA) preferentially over (+)- cis-OPDA, a natural precursor of JA. Thus the rice enzyme was termed OsOPR1. The physiological roles of OsOPR1 are discussed. This is the first report of the cloning of an OPR gene from a monocot plant.
12569427	Opaque2 (O2) is a bZIP transcriptional regulatory factor involved in the control of seed storage proteins synthesis as well as carbon and nitrogen metabolism during maize seed development. Phylogenetic analysis of a possible complete and nonredundant collection of angiosperm bZIP factors resulted in the identification of 20 angiosperm O2-homologues that defined what we call the O2 gene family. Members of the family share a highly conserved bZIP DNA binding domain and several other motifs which define important functional features. The O2 family was enriched by the identification of 25 new putative angiosperm O2 homologous genes in EST databases and in the rice genome. Based on parsimony analysis, the collection of O2 homologues was organized into one eudicot-monocot and three monocot groups of orthologous genes and two groups of eudicot genes. These results support a model of the evolution of the O2 family that involves two O2 homologous gene duplications before the separation of monocots and eudicots. Further expansion of O2 homologues resulted in at least three and one gene duplications in the monocot and eudicot lineages, respectively. O2 appears to have been the result of a monocot-specific gene duplication event, and the possibility that O2 represents a functional specialization restricted to monocots is suggested.
12572064	To investigate the natural and socio-economical environment in the areas where Anopheles anthropophagus distributed in Hubei Province. 5% of the villages in distribution area of An. anthropophagus were randomly selected for the investigation which included vegetation, soil, water, temperature, farming, resting places of the mosquito. The vegetation of An. anthropophagus area consisted of forest, bush, sod and crops. The area was densely covered with river, ditches and ponds, the water pH being 6.1-7.7. The soil texture was either yellow, yellow brown, grey or black, contained 2.72% organic material. There were one or two seasons of rice plantation in the area and the amount of insecticide used was 0.828 kg/mu in the rice field. The annual average temperature was 16.9 degrees C and the humidity was 76.9%. The breed period of An. anthropophagus was from June to September. There are two peaks of mosquito population in area with two seasons of rice plantation, and one peak in one rice season. The composition of An. anthropophagus resting in households, cowsheds and pigpens was 80.9%, 12.2% and 6.0%, respectively. The distribution of An. anthropophagus was in point, flaky or belt form in low hill, hillock, shallow hilly plain. These areas were full of vegetation and source of water, the principal crop was single cropping of rice, and soil texture is yellow or yellow brown. The major resting place of the mosquito was human dwellings.
12572353	This paper reports the results of epidemiological survey on health effects of residents exposed to arsenic in a pollution area and estimation of arsenic accumulative intake level (EAAIL) based on calculating accumulative rice consumption and via inhalation way. 795 persons were sampled randomly from the polluted area, among whom 674 persons and 83 persons were diagnosed with Chronic Arsenic Absorption (CAA) and Chronic Arsenicism (CA) according to the National Diagnose Standard respectively. There were 60.98% CAA in 30 years old and younger age-groups and 97.59% CA in 30 years old and older age-groups. The one youngest case of CA occurred in 15 years old age group, while its EAAIL was at 1846.47 mg. The highest EAAIL was at 8706.47 mg. The rate of CA had gone obviously up at 30 years old age group. Its EAAIL was at 3833.42 mg. One equation of relationship between the rate of CA (%) and EAAIL (mg) was fitted by means of curve fitting, its is followed: Y = X1.843/e12.694 -2.866, r2 = 0.945.
12573413
12573454	Gangliosides (GS) were evaluated in Swiss cow's milk (SCM), Italian buffalo milk (IBM) and its serum, Pakistan buffalo colostrum (PBC), Pakistan buffalo mature milk (PBM), and Pakistan buffalo milk from rice-growing areas (PBR). Dairy GS were obtained from the Folch's upper (hydrophilic) and lower (lipophilic) extraction phases, respectively, and determined as lipid-bound sialic acid (LBSA) by colorimetry. Molar ratios of LBSA in the hydro- and lipophilic GS fractions were 52:48 to 79:21. Mature buffalo milk types had 40-100% more LBSA in the lipophilic GS fraction compared to SCM. Liquid PBC was higher in LBSA (24 nmol/g) compared to mature milk types (8-11 nmol/g). Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and scanning densitometry showed distinct profiles of hydrophilic and lipophilic GS fractions. Lipophilic GS (but importantly not hydrophilic GS) from IBM and its serum decreased prostaglandin series 2 production by 75-80% in cultured human colonic epithelial cells exposed to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). Hydrophilic GD(3) and lipophilic GM(3) selectively bound rotavirus particles prepared from a rhesus strain and its mutant. A GS fraction in IBM showed a GM(1)-specific binding to cholera toxin subunit B (CTB). IBM serum (IBMS) was a rich source of LBSA (420 nmol/g proteins). In summary, improved methodology led to increased LBSA recovery and isolation of additional and bioactive milk GS. Human and Italian buffalo milk had similar CTB binding, and both had increased polysialo-GS compared to cows milk. The toxin binding properties of buffalo milk GS, and the anti-inflammatory activity of the lipophilized GS fraction could be important for developing innovative food applications, as well as the subject of future research.
12575744	Barley plants carrying a mutation in the Mlo (barley [Hordeum vulgare L.] cultivar Ingrid) locus conferring a durable resistance against powdery mildew are hypersusceptible to the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. It has been speculated that a functional Mlo gene is required for the expression of basic pathogen resistance and that the loss of Mlo function mediating powdery mildew resistance is an exception for this particular disease. Here, we report that the onset of acquired resistance (AR) after chemical as well as biological treatments is sufficient to overcome the hypersusceptible phenotype of backcross line BCIngridmlo5 (mlo) barley plants against M. grisea. Moreover, even barley plants bearing a functional Mlo gene and thus showing a moderate infection phenotype against rice blast exhibit a further enhanced resistance after induction of AR. Cytological investigations reveal that acquired resistance in mlo genotypes is manifested by the restoration of the ability to form an effective papilla at sites of attempted penetration, similarly to wild-type Mlo plants. In addition, the rate of effective papillae formation in Mlo plants was further enhanced after the onset of AR. These results demonstrate that treatments leading to the AR state in barley function independently of the Mlo/mlo phenotype and suggest that the Mlo protein is not a component of the AR signaling network. Moreover, it seems that only concomitant action of Mlo together with AR permits high level resistance in barley against blast. Higher steady state levels of PR1 and barley chemically induced mRNA correlate with higher disease severity rather than with the degree of resistance observed in this particular interaction.
12576669	In plants gibberellins (GAs) are responsible for triggering stem or internodal elongation. To comprehend the molecular basis of internodal elongation in rice, a proteomics approach using differentially displayed proteins on two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) was carried out to identify the proteins expressed during the GA controlled leaf-sheath elongation response. Out of 352 protein spots detected on 2-D PAGE, 32 proteins showed modulation in the expression levels in GA3-treated leaf-sheath for 48 h as compared to control. These proteins were analyzed using protein sequencer and/or mass spectrometry in conjunction with the protein database to assign putative identities. The twin protein spots (LS079 and LS083), identified as calreticulin, showed different isoelectric points and expression level in GA3-treated leaf-sheath. The expression level of LS083 (pI 4.0) was down-regulated as compared to the up-regulation of LS079 (pI 4.3). In the presence of GA3 and growth inhibitor, uniconazole and abscisic acid, respectively, no elongation in leaf-sheath occurred and calreticulin did not shift from LS083 to LS079. Over-expression of calreticulin in rice inhibited the callus regeneration and seedling growth. These results suggest that calreticulin is an important component in the GA signaling pathway that regulates rice seedling leaf-sheath elongation.
12576690	Calreticulin is an abundant endo/sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-binding protein. To investigate whether calreticulin (CRO1) is involved in the cold-stress response in rice, a transgenic plant was constructed. The transcriptional level was decreased within 30 min and recovered within 2 h of a cold treatment. The calreticulin protein was shifted from a soluble fraction to an insoluble fraction by cold stress. Endogenous abscisic acid (ABA) is an important factor in cold response, and the synthesis of ABA was strongly induced in CRO1-sense transgenic rice, the same as in cold-sensitive rice. The phosphorylation of calreticulin increased after cold treatment. Over-expression of calreticulin enhanced the activities of 47 kDa Ca2+-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) that had been induced by cold treatment. The 47-kDa CDPK activity increases more in the cold sensitive variety IR36 and the sense transgenic rice than it does in other varieties. The synthesis of ABA, phosphorylation of calreticulin and 47-kDa CDPK activity induced in sense transgenic rice were the same as in cold-sensitive rice and the phosphorylation of antisense transgenic rice was similar to that of cold-tolerant rice. These results suggest that the calreticulin is involved in the signaling pathway leading to response to cold stress.
12579355	One of the major abiotic stresses that affects plant growth and development is anoxia or hypoxia. Rice is a semi-aquatic plant bestowed with the capability of overcoming oxygen limitation for a considerable period of time. For instance, it can withstand submergence stress either by inherent metabolic adaptations (resistant type), or by keeping its leaves above the water surface by continuously elongating the stem (avoiding type). In the former case, an interplay of several metabolic pathways engaged in anaerobic fermentation keeps the submerged plant alive for a certain period of time. In the latter type, also known as deepwater rice, continuous stem elongation brought about by a series of reactions in planta enables the shoot to remain above the water surface and thus maintain respiration and photosynthesis. However, the earliest event, i.e., sensing the oxygen level that brings about all the changes, has not been clearly understood. This paper intends to evaluate the metabolic adaptations of rice plants to oxygen constraints.
12579369	A shoot overgrowth mutant of rice (Oryza sativa L.), accelerated internode overgrowth-1 (ao-1), is marked by accelerated longitudinal elongation of aerial parts and overgrowth of internodes at the vegetative stage. The physiological properties of ao-1 were similar to those of wild plants treated with a saturating level of exogenous gibberellins (GAs), except for the internode-overgrowth phenotype, which was not mimicked by GA-treated wild plants. The ao-1 mutant was less sensitive to a GA biosynthesis inhibitor, Uniconazole-P, than the wild type. Dwarf alleles of three loci, including two GA-sensitive and one GA-insensitive mutation, were introduced to produce double-mutants with ao-1, but the overgrowth phenotype was not suppressed in double-homozygous mutants. These results suggest that the overgrowth phenotype of ao-1 is caused by abolition of GA signaling rather than by GA overproduction. It is likely that a part of the shoot regulation system of ao-1 is saturated with the GA signal. As a possible model consistent with the results, we propose that AO-1 protein acts as a negative regulator in GA signal transduction.
12579422	The present investigation revealed that the alk and gel(t) genes, which cause the differences between a japonica rice variety Nipponbare and an indica rice variety Kasalath in terms of the disintegration of endosperm starch granules in alkali solution and their gelatinisation in a 4 M urea solution, respectively, cosegregated in backcross inbred lines derived from a cross between the two varieties. The segregation pattern of the profile for amylopectin chain-length, which was distinguished by enrichment in short chains of DP<==11 and depletion in intermediate-size chains of 12<==DP<==24 in japonica as compared with indica, was exactly the same as those of the above physico-chemical properties of starch granules, and the gene was designated as acl(t). Gene-mapping analysis showed that the starch synthase IIa (SSIIa) gene is located at the alk locus on chromosome 6 in the rice genome. These results lead us to the possibility that different alleles of the SSIIa gene are responsible for differences in amylopectin structure between the two varieties, in that SSIIa plays a distinct role in the elongation of short chains within clusters (A+B(1) chains) of amylopectin. It is proposed that the activity of SSIIa in japonica rice is reduced in amount or functional capacity relative to the activity of this enzyme in indica rice. This, in turn, would explain why starch from japonica rice has a lower gelatinisation temperature than starch from indica rice and is more susceptible to disintegration in alkali or urea. The evidence for this hypothesis is that the alk(t), gel(t), acl(t) and SSIIa genes all map to the same locus.
12579449	The mechanism inducing the difference in growth rate under various temperature (10-50 degrees C) conditions was analyzed using rice and azuki bean seedlings. The growth rate of rice coleoptiles and azuki bean epicotyls increased as temperature increased up to 40 and 30 degrees C, respectively, and the elongation was retarded at a higher temperature. The cell wall extensibility of rice coleoptiles and azuki bean epicotyls also showed the highest value at 40 and 30 degrees C, respectively, and became smaller as the temperature rose or dropped from the optimum. The opposite tendency was observed in the minimum stress-relaxation time of the cell wall. On the other hand, the cellular osmotic concentration of rice coleoptiles and azuki bean epicotyls was lower at the temperature optimum for growth at 40 and 30 degrees C, respectively. When rice and azuki bean seedlings grown at 10, 20, 40, or 50 degrees C were transferred to the initial temperature (30 degrees C), the growth rate of coleoptiles and epicotyls was mostly elevated, concomitant with an increase in the cell wall extensibility. The growth rate was correlated with the cell wall mechanical parameters in both materials. These results suggest that the environmental temperature modulates the growth rate of plant shoots by affecting mainly the mechanical properties of the cell wall.
12580278	Candidate genes involved in both recognition (resistance gene analogs [RGAs]) and general plant defense (putative defense response [DR]) were used as molecular markers to test for association with resistance in rice to blast, bacterial blight (BB), sheath blight, and brown plant-hopper (BPH). The 118 marker loci were either polymerase chain reaction-based RGA markers or restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers that included RGAs or putative DR genes from rice, barley, and maize. The markers were placed on an existing RFLP map generated from a mapping population of 116 doubled haploid (DH) lines derived from a cross between an improved indica rice cultivar, IR64, and a traditional japonica cultivar, Azucena. Most of the RGAs and DR genes detected a single locus with variable copy number and mapped on different chromosomes. Clusters of RGAs were observed, most notably on chromosome 11 where many known blast and BB resistance genes and quantitative trait loci (QTL) for blast, BB, sheath blight, and BPH were located. Major resistance genes and QTL for blast and BB resistance located on different chromosomes were associated with several candidate genes. Six putative QTL for BB were located on chromosomes 2, 3, 5, 7, and 8 and nine QTL for BPH resistance were located to chromosomes 3, 4, 6, 11, and 12. The alleles of QTL for BPH resistance were mostly from IR64 and each explained between 11.3 and 20.6% of the phenotypic variance. The alleles for BB resistance were only from the Azucena parent and each explained at least 8.4% of the variation. Several candidate RGA and DR gene markers were associated with QTL from the pathogens and pest. Several RGAs were mapped to BB QTL. Dihydrofolate reductase thymidylate synthase co-localized with two BPH QTL associated with plant response to feeding and also to blast QTL. Blast QTL also were associated with aldose reductase, oxalate oxidase, JAMyb (a jasmonic acid-induced Myb transcription factor), and peroxidase markers. The frame map provides reference points to select candidate genes for cosegregation analysis using other mapping populations, isogenic lines, and mutants.
12580509	An approach based on on-line coupled liquid chromatography-gas chromatography (LC-GC) was developed for the rapid analysis of gamma-oryzanol in rice. Total lipids were extracted from rice and subjected to LC-GC without any prior purification. gamma-Oryzanol was pre-separated by HPLC from rice lipids and transferred on-line to GC analysis in order to separate its major constituents. 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate, cycloartenyl ferulate, campesteryl ferulate, beta-sitosteryl ferulate and campestanyl ferulate. The identities of the compounds were confirmed by off-line GC-MS analysis. Total gamma-oryzanol content could be quantified by HPLC-UV detection and the distribution of gamma-oryzanol constituents could be determined by on-line coupled GC analysis. The proposed methodology paves the way for high-throughput investigations providing information on natural variations in gamma-oryzanol content and its composition in different rice varieties.
12581301	Treatment of suspension-cultured cells of rice (Oryza sativa L.) with cell wall extract of rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) elicits a rapid generation of H2O2, alkalinization of culture medium, and eventual cell death. To elucidate genes involved in these processes, we exploited SAGE (Serial Analysis of Gene Expression) technique for the molecular analysis of cell death in suspension-cultured cells treated with the elicitor. Among the downregulated genes in the elicitor-treated cells, a BI-1 gene coding for Bax inhibitor was identified. Transgenic rice cells overexpressing Arabidopsis BI-1 gene showed sustainable cell survival when challenged with M. grisea elicitor. Thus, the plant Bax inhibitor plays a functional role in regulating cell death in the rice cell culture system.
12581309	Although the shoot apical meristem (SAM) is ultimately responsible for post-embryonic development in higher plants, lateral meristems also play an important role in determining the final morphology of the above-ground part. Axillary buds developing at the axils of leaves produce additional shoot systems, lateral branches. The rice TB1 gene (OsTB1) was first identified based on its sequence similarity with maize TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1 (TB1), which is involved in lateral branching in maize. Both genes encode putative transcription factors carrying a basic helix-loop-helix type of DNA-binding motif, named the TCP domain. The genetic locus of OsTB1 suggested that OsTB1 is a real counterpart of maize TB1. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsTB1 exhibited markedly reduced lateral branching without the propagation of axillary buds being affected. We also demonstrated that a rice strain carrying a classical morphological marker mutation, fine culm 1 (fc1), contain the loss-of-function mutation of OsTB1 and exhibits enhanced lateral branching. Expression of OsTB1, as examined with a putative promoter-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fusion, was observed throughout the axillary bud, as well as the basal part of the shoot apical meristem, vascular tissues in the pith and the lamina joint. Taking these data together, we concluded that OsTB1 functions as a negative regulator for lateral branching in rice, presumably through expression in axillary buds.
12581311	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) modulate chromatin structure and transcription. HDACs have been studied as negative regulators in eukaryotic transcription. We isolated the rice OsHDAC1-3 genes for class I-type histone deacetylases, which are related to the RPD3 family. The OsHDAC1 gene encoded a protein of approximately 57 kDa that shared 73.5, 72.7, 79.9, and 57.1% amino acid sequence identity with the OsHDAC2, OsHDAC3, maize RPD3, and human HDAC1 proteins, respectively. Genomic structures and Southern blot analyses revealed that OsHDAC1-3 contained seven, six, and seven exons, respectively, and constituted a class I-type family in the rice genome. OsHDAC1 was expressed at similar levels in the leaves, roots, and callus cells, whereas OsHDAC2 and 3 were expressed in the roots and callus cells, but not in the leaves, exhibiting distinct tissue specificity. To explore the role of histone deacetylases in transgenic plants, we inserted the OsHDAC1 cDNA fragment into the expression vector Ai::OsHDAC1 under the control of the ABA-inducible promoter Ai, and transformed the construct into rice. Levels of mRNA, protein, and HDAC activity were significantly increased in Ai::OsHDAC1 callus cells. The amount of tetra-acetylated H4 in the transgenic cells was greatly reduced, and the reduction was abolished upon treatment with trichostatin A. These results demonstrate that OsHDAC1 overexpression in transgenic cells both yields enzymatically active HDAC complexes and induces changes in histone acetylation in vivo. The overexpression leads to a range of novel phenotypes, involving increased growth rate and altered plant architecture, suggesting that OsHDAC1 functions in the genome-wide programming of gene expression.
12581460	Nutrition-related disorders, including vitamin A deficiency (VAD) and chronic diseases, are serious problems in the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). Many suggest that these disorders are new problems related to dietary and lifestyle changes. In the past four decades, imported foods, such as white rice, flour, sugar, refined foods and fatty meats, have increasingly replaced local foods in the diet. A literature review was conducted to understand underlying issues related to dietary change and obtain insights for nutrition research and interventions. Published and unpublished papers from different disciplines were reviewed and collated for information on food and nutrition in FSM. Topics covered were historical background, local foods, infant and child feeding, dietary assessment, and nutritional status. Particular focus was on information and data relating to VAD, the primary topic that led to the review of the literature. FSM, a tropical country of abundant agricultural resources, has suffered a great loss in production and consumption of local foods. Inconsistent external and internal government policies and food aid programmes have contributed to the problem. Further research on the nutrient content of local foods and factors affecting production, acquisition and consumption is needed, as well as a broad, well-planned, intersectoral intervention aimed at dietary improvement for all age groups in the population.
12582233	hBRCA1 is involved in 20-45% of inherited breast cancer cases and is implicated in many mechanisms involved in response to DNA damage. To date, BRCA1 orthologs have been characterized in vertebrate genomes only. We have identified the ortholog of BRCA1 in Arabidopsis thaliana. AtBRCA1 is a 5.5 kb part of the locus At4g21070. The corresponding mRNA of 3.5 kb is composed of 14 exons and encodes a 941 amino acid protein (104 kDa). AtBRCA1, which has one N-terminal RING finger, two C-terminal BRCT and the p300/CBP interacting domain, shows a high similarity to hBRCA1 in these motifs and has the same characteristic molecular organization. We have also identified a putative ortholog in rice (OsBRCA1). With 941 and 968 amino acids, respectively, AtBRCA1 and OsBRCA1 are the shortest members of the BRCA1 family, and may represent a plant specificity. AtBRCA1 is expressed ubiquitously in plant tissues, at levels depending on organ type, with highest levels in flower buds and exponentially growing cell cultures. Increase of mRNA levels in all plant tissues 1 h after irradiation with the highest induction level of approximately 150 times for a 100 Gy dose is consistent with a putative role of AtBRCA1 in DNA repair and in cell-cycle control.
12582477	The rice heterochronic gene plastochron1, pla1, shows shorter plastochron and ectopic expression of the vegetative program during the rice reproductive phase resulting in aberrant panicle formation. A genetic and physical map was constructed to isolate the causal gene for the pla1 syndrome. Small-scale mapping was carried out to determine the approximate map position of the pla1 locus, and then a high-resolution genetic map was made for pla1-1, one of the pla1 alleles, using an F(2) population comprising 578 pla1-1 homozygous plants. In a high-resolution genetic map, the pla1-1 locus was found to map between RFLP markers C961 and R1738A on chromosome 10, within a 3.6-cM genetic distance. A physical map encompassing the pla1-1 locus was constructed by overlapping Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) clones through chromosome walking. PCR-based RFLP markers from BAC-end clones were developed and mapped relative to the pla1 locus. Physical map construction using BAC clones indicated that a BAC clone, B44A10 (167-kb), contained the pla1 locus within 74-kb corresponding to a 0.52-cM genetic distance. Gene prediction of 74-kb region carrying the pla1 locus suggested several candidate genes for the pla1 gene. Identification of a candidate gene for pla1 will be made by sequence analysis of allele variation and cDNA screening.
12582481	Cultivated rice is a high-volume, low-value cereal crop providing staple food to more than 50% of the world populace. A small group of rice cultivars, traditionally produced on the Indo-Gangetic plains and popularly known as Basmati, have exquisite quality grain characteristics and are a prized commercial commodity. Efforts to improve the yield potential of Basmati have led to the development of several crossbred Basmati-like cultivars. In this study we have analysed the genetic diversity and interrelationships among 33 rice genotypes consisting of the traditional Basmati, improved Basmati-like genotypes developed in India and elsewhere, American long-grain rice and a few non-aromatic rice using a DNA marker-based approach - fluorescent-amplified fragment length polymorphism (f-AFLP). Using a set of nine primer-pairs we scored a total of 10,672 data points over all of the genotypes in the size range of 75-500 bp. The scored data points corresponded to a total of 501 AFLP markers (putative loci/genome landmarks) of which 327 markers (65%) were polymorphic. The f-AFLP marker data, which were analysed using different clustering algorithms and principal component analysis, indicate that: (1) considerable genetic variability exists in the analysed genotypes; (2) traditional Basmati cultivars could be distinctly separated from the crossbred Basmati-like genotypes as well as from the non-aromatic rice; (3) the crossbred Basmati-like cultivars from the subcontinent and elsewhere are genetically very distinct; (4) f-AFLP-based clustering, in general, conforms to the putative pedigree of the improved genotypes. Moreover, analysis to ascertain the scope of AFLP as a technique suggests that the polymorphism revealed by three selective primer-pair combinations is sufficient to obtain reliable estimates of genetic diversity for the type of material used in this study. However, its utility to identify group-specific DNA markers was discounted due to a low frequency of observed group-specific discrete markers.
12582482	We have identified an AFLP marker SA598 that is linked to Gm7, a gene conferring resistance to biotypes 1, 2 and 4 of the gall midge (Orseolia oryzae), a major dipteran pest of rice. A set of PCR primers specific to an RFLP marker, previously identified to be linked to another gall midge resistance gene Gm2, also amplified a 1.5-kb (F8LB) fragment that is linked to Gm7. Gm7 is a dominant gene and non-allelic to Gm2. Hybridization experiments with clones from a YAC library of Nipponbare, a japonica variety, a BAC library of IR-BB21, an indica variety, and cosmid clones encompassing Gm2 from Phalguna, an indica variety, with F8LB and SA598 as probes, revealed that Gm7 is tightly linked to Gm2 and is located on chromosome 4 of rice. SA598 was sequenced and the sequence information was used to design sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) primers. The potential use of these SCAR primers in marker-aided selection of Gm7 in a rice breeding program has been demonstrated.
12582488	seedling-vigor is important for crop establishment. There have been reported quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses on seedling-vigor related morphological traits. However, physiological understanding of these detected QTLs is rather limited. In this study, we employed a recombinant inbred population to detect QTLs for seedling-vigor traits and physiological traits related to seedling-vigor. Germination rate and seedling growth were measured to quantify seedling-vigor. Total amylase activity, alpha-amylase activity, reducing sugar content, root activity and seed weight were determined. Correlations were observed between the seedling-vigor and physiological traits. QTL analysis reveals that the intervals of RG393-C1087-RZ403 on chromosome 3, C246-RM26-C1447 and R830-R3166-RG360-C734b on chromosome 5, and the interval of Waxy on chromosome 6 are the four main chromosomal regions controlling seedling-vigor. Several QTLs for amylase activities, reducing sugar content and root activity were localized in the similar regions as the QTLs for seedling-vigor. The results suggest that these traits were under the control of pleiotropic and/or closely linked QTLs. The implications of the results in the understanding of the physiological basis of seedling-vigor were discussed.
12582490	Colinearity between wheat and rice genomes is quite well established at the chromosome level, but less is known at a finer level. We tried to specify these relationships for the wheat 5BS chromosome-arm distal region, where a major locus for crossability was located. By developing AFLP markers, we succeeded to locate this major QTL more precisely. One cloned AFLP fragment mapped to rice chromosome 11, which was in agreement with a rice chromosome-11 linkage block reported in this region. However a second marker, a RFLP probe, showed a break in synteny because it mapped to rice long-arm chromosomes 1 and 5, while screening a rice BAC library with the same probe identified rice chromosomes 5 and 6. Therefore, we concluded that the syntenic relationships were more complex at the fine level. The observed results might indicate the presence of a linkage block carrying a crossability gene on wheat groups 1, 5 and 7, and also on rice chromosomes 5 and 6.
12582509	We used the polyamine biosynthetic pathway and rice as a relevant model to understand the genetic basis of variation in endogenous levels of metabolites and key enzymes involved in the pathway. Wild-type tissues and also tissues containing a commonly used selectable marker gene were employed. We detected a wide variation in levels of arginine decarboxylase activity and in the three polyamines, putrescine, spermidine and spermine, in different tissues and varieties, but this was not dependent on the presence of the selectable marker. A more-extensive profile of enzyme activities (ADC, ODC, SAMDC, DAO and PAO) and polyamine levels in different tissues was generated in two different varieties. Our results indicate that genetic background is important in terms of the basal levels of metabolites and enzyme activity, particularly in situations in which we aim to engineer metabolic pathways that are also encoded by homologous endogenous genes. We did not find any evidence that the presence of a selectable marker in any way influences enzyme activity or metabolite levels.
12582511	Genetic variation of Japanese rice cultivars were examined. Five of 450 lowland cultivars and another five of 200 upland cultivars were determined as the indica type by using isozyme genotypes and the remainder were of the japonica type. The major characteristics of these indica cultivars, revealed a slender shape of grains, a short apiculus hair length, a positive allele for Ph reaction, and allele-3 for the Pgd1 locus. Three of these indica cultivars showed a non-deletion ORF100, which is essential to the japonica-type plastid. The plastid subtype identity (PS-ID) sequences of these plastids is 6C7A, which is also a japonica-specific repeat unit. Thus, these cultivars were concluded to be naturally generated cytoplasm substituted lines. These plastids were introduced into a indica genetic background from japonica cultivars grown elsewhere. The rest of the indica cultivars revealed a deletion-type ORF100 and plastid subtype 8C8A, both of which are indica-specific. These cultivars carried indica-type allelic constitutions for diagnostic isozyme loci. However, other characters were identical to the cytoplasm-substituted cultivars in Japan. In East and Southeast Asia, cultivars carrying a indica-type nuclear genotype with a japonica-type plastid are restricted to Aus cultivars in the Bengal region. Genetic and historical records suggest that Japanese indica cultivars and the Aus cultivars are closely related. The Aus cultivars acquire necessary genetic constitutions from both indica and japonica cultivars through naturally occurring out-crossing to adapt to a particular cultivation condition in the region. The wide adaptability enabled them to be introduced into a northern region like Japan.
12582522	Rice endosperm UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (UGPase) cDNA clones were isolated by screening a lambda ZAP II library prepared from poly (A(+)) RNA of japonica rice (cv Sasanishiki) endosperm with a probe of potato UGPase cDNA. One cDNA clone, possessing about 1,700 nucleotides, contained the complete open reading frame of rice UGPase. At the nucleotide-sequence level, the UGPase cDNA of rice endosperm had high homology with the UGPase cDNA of barley endosperm (84%) and potato tuber (71%). The calculated molecular weight (50 kDa) agrees with the value determined by SDS-PAGE (51 kDa). At the amino-acid sequence level, rice UGPase has high homology with the UGPase of barley (92%) and potato (85%). The enzyme contained conserved sequence elements which are thought to be involved in substrate binding and catalytic activity. A Southern-blot analysis indicated that the gene existed as a single copy. Expression of the enzyme in rice endosperm examined by Northern-blot analysis was high at 10-15 days after heading.
12582526	Main effects, epistatic effects and their environmental interactions of QTLs are all important genetic components of quantitative traits. In this study, we analyzed the main effects, epistatic effects of the QTLs, and QTL by environment interactions (QEs) underlying four yield traits, using a population of 240 recombinant inbred lines from a cross between two rice varieties tested in replicated field trials. A genetic linkage map with 220 DNA marker loci was constructed. A mixed linear model approach was used to detect QTLs with main effects, QTLs involved in digenic interactions and QEs. In total, 29 QTLs of main effects, and 35 digenic interactions involving 58 loci were detected for the four traits. Thirteen QTLs with main effects showed QEs; no QE was detected for the QTLs involved in epistatic interactions. The amount of variations explained by the QTLs of main effect were larger than the QTLs involved in epistatic interactions, which in turn were larger than QEs for all four traits. This study illustrates the ability of the analysis to assess the genetic components underlying the quantitative traits, and demonstrates the relative importance of the various components as the genetic basis of yield traits in this population.
12582529	A cDNA sequence (Hbc8-2) isolated from pistils of the self-incompatible species Hordeum bulbosum was analysed for expression pattern and genetic map location. Hbc8-2 was expressed just prior to anthesis in mature pistils, and expression was maintained at a high level throughout anthesis. The same expression pattern was found in self-incompatible rye (Secale cereale), but no expression was detected in the self-compatible cereals wheat (Triticum aestivum) or barley (Hordeum vulgare) at comparable stages of development. However, three wheat expressed sequence tags from a pre-anthesis library had high homology to Hbc8-2. Southern blot analyses using Hbc8-2 as a probe detected hybridising bands in the genomes of various Gramineae species including rye, barley, bread wheat, wild wheat relatives (Aegilops tauschii and Ae. speltoides), oats (Avena fatua and A. strigosa), rice (Oryza sativa) and maize (Zea mays). This suggests that Hbc8-2-like sequences are present in many species but that high levels of expression may be associated with self-incompatibility. Hbc8-2 was mapped on the long arms of chromosome 2H(b) of H. bulbosum, 2R of rye, and 2B and 2D of wheat and was assigned to chromosome 2H of barley using wheat/barley addition lines. On a H. bulbosum genetic map, Xhbc8-2 was located between Xbcd266 and Xpsr87, while in rye and wheat it was located in a 13.2-cM interval between Xpsr331 and Xpsr932, consistent with previous comparative mapping studies of these species. Mapping in rye suggested that Hbc8-2 is probably proximal to the Z self-incompatibility locus which was previously shown to be tightly linked to Xbcd266.
12582534	Lines from a Lemont x Teqing recombinant inbred population were evaluated for dilatory resistance to rice blast disease using: (1) the Standard Evaluation System (SES) for rating leaf blast, (2) the percentage diseased leaf area (%DLA), and (3) the area under a disease progress curve (AUDPC). RFLP mapping using 175 well-distributed loci revealed nine QTLs, one each on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9, with two loci on chromosome 12. All nine putative QTLs were associated with AUDPC, six with both a %DLA and a SES rating. Teqing contributed the resistance allele for all these loci except for the one located on chromosome 4. Individual QTLs accounted for 5-32% of the observed phenotypic variation, and combined QTL models accounted for 43-53%. Three QTLs were located near three of the four major resistance genes previously identified in this population. The resistances of both Lemont and Teqing were attributable to a combination of both major genes capable of inducing hypersensitive reactions and minor genes causing less-distinctive phenotypic differences. Interactions were noted between QTLs and major genes. Our findings are in support of the strategy of pyramiding major genes and QTLs in carefully selected combinations to develop improved varieties with resistance to the blast fungus that is both broad in spectrum and durable.
12582550	Four multiplex panels of fluorescent-labeled rice microsatellite markers were designed to survey allelic diversity at a total of 27 simple sequence repeat loci. Automated fragment detection, size calling and binning were used to identify the microsatellite alleles. The panels were tested on 72 accessions representing the diversity of ecotypes and isozyme groups in cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.). Genetic diversity was evaluated by estimating the distribution and range of allele sizes, as well as the polymorphism information content (PIC), for each microsatellite locus. The multiplex panels were shown to be useful for fingerprinting and for clustering rice varieties, and genetic associations determined in this analysis agreed well with previous isozyme- and RFLP-based studies of these genotypes. Because of the wide cross-section of germplasm represented, we expect that the allele size-ranges reported here are close to the maximum for cultivated rice. In the future, panels of microsatellites from each rice chromosome will be made to facilitate the mapping of segregating populations and the identification of genes and QTLs underlying traits of interest.
12582557	The use of a thermosensitive genic male sterility (TGMS) system in two-line hybrid rice breeding is affected greatly by the sterility instability of TGMS lines caused by temperature fluctuation beyond their critical temperatures for fertility reversion. To prevent seed production from self contamination, we have developed a system to secure seed purity using a herbicide-sensitive TGMS mutant, M8077S, obtained by radiation. Genetic analysis, using the F(1), F(2) and F(3) populations derived from this mutant and other normal varieties, revealed that bentazon lethality/sensitivity was controlled by a single recessive gene, which was named bel. The mutant can be killed at the seedling stage by bentazon at 300 mg/l or higher, a dosage that is safe for its F(1) hybrids and all other normal varieties. This mutant is also sensitive to all the tested sulfonylurea herbicides. Response of segregating plants to these two types of herbicide indicated that sulfonylurea sensitivity was also controlled by bel. By crossing this mutant with Pei-Ai 64S, an F(2) population was developed for genetic mapping. Surveying the two DNA pools from sensitive and non-sensitive F(2) plants identified four markers that were polymorphic between the pools. The putative linked markers were then confirmed with the F(2) population. The bel locus was located on chromosome 3, 7.1 cM from the closest microsatellite marker RM168. Phenotypic analysis indicated that the bel gene had no negative effect on agronomic traits in either a homozygous or heterozygous status. The mutant M8077S is valuable in the development of a TGMS breeding system for preventing impurity resulting from temperature fluctuation of the TGMS. Several two-line hybrid rice crosses using this system are under development.
12582559	Differential clones from submergence stress and control treatment from rice seedlings were isolated by the differential screening method. One of the clones, OsGAPDH, represented a gene that was expressed at high level during 12-h submergence. A homology search of GenBank databases showed that OsGAPDH had significant sequence homology with maize non-reversible glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate dehydrogenase. The OsGAPDH sequence consists of 1,772 bp with the longest open reading frame encoding 499 amino acids with a calculated relative mass of 54.2 kDa. Genomic Southern analysis indicated that one or two copies of the OsGAPDH gene occur in the Yukihikari genome. The chromosomal location of the OsGAPDH gene was identified by RFLP analysis indicating that OsGAPDH was located on chromosome 8. Tissue-specific expression of OsGAPDH indicated that the high level of mRNA was detected in the panicle. Plants exposed to drought, submergence and ABA treatment showed an increased accumulation of OsGAPDH transcripts. The induction of Escherichia coli cells containing the pGST-OsGAPDH plasmid resulted in the accumulation of a large amount of the 83.2-kDa recombinant protein. The purified GAPDH enzyme showed an optimum activity at pH 8.5 and 50 degrees C, and was strongly inhibited by ATP and ADP.
12582574	The genetic basis of character association related to differentiation found in the primary gene pool of rice was investigated based on the genomic distribution of quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Major evolutionary trends in cultivated rice of Asiatic origin (Oryza sativa) and its wild progenitor (O. rufipogon) are: (1) differentiation from wild to domesticated types (domestication), (2) ecotype differentiation between the perennial and annual types in wild races, and (3) the Indica versus Japonica type differentiation in cultivated races. Using 125 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between an Indica cultivar of O. sativa and a strain of O. rufipogon carrying some Japonica-like characteristics, we mapped 147 markers, mostly RFLPs, on 12 chromosomes. Thirty-seven morphological and physiological quantitative traits were evaluated, and QTLs for 24 traits were detected. The mapped loci showed a tendency to form clusters that are composed of QTLs of the domestication-related traits as well as Indica/Japonica diagnostic traits. QTLs for perennial/annual type differences did not cluster. This cluster phenomenon could be considered "multifactorial linkages" followed by natural selection favoring co-adapted traits. Further, it is possible that the clustering phenomenon is partly due to pleiotropy of some unknown key factor(s) controlling various traits through diverse metabolic pathways. Chromosomal regions where QTL clusters were found coincided with the regions harboring genes or gene blocks where the frequency of cultivar-derived alleles in RILs is higher than expected. This distortion may be partly due to unconscious selection favoring cultivated plant type during the establishment of RILs.
12582589	The genetic differentiation of nuclear, mitochondrial (mt) and chloroplast (cp) genomes was investigated by Southern and PCR analysis using 75 varieties of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) and 118 strains of common wild rice (CWR, Oryza rufipogon Griff.) from ten countries of Asia. The distinguishing differences between the Indica and Japonica cultivars were detected both in the nuclear genome and the cytoplasmic genome, confirming that the Indica-Japonica differentiation is of major importance for the three different classes of genome in cultivated rice. This differentiation was also detected in common wild rice with some differences among the genome compartments and the various regions. For nuclear DNA variation, both Indica-like and Japonica-like types were observed in the Chinese CWR, with the latter more-frequent than the former. No Japonica-like type was found in South Asia, and only two strains of the Japonica-like type were detected in Southeast Asia, thus the Indica-like type is the major type among South and Southeast Asian CWR. For mtDNA, only a few strains of the Japonica-like type were detected in CWR. For cpDNA, the Japonica type was predominant among the CWR strains from China, Bangladesh and Burma, while the Indica type was predominant among the CWR strains from Thailand, Malaysia, Cambodia and Sri Lanka, and both types were found in similar frequencies among the Indian CWR. Altogether, however, the degree of Indica-Japonica differentiation in common wild rice was much-less important than that in cultivated rice. Cluster analyses for nuclear and mitochondrial DNA variation revealed that some CWR strains showed large genetic distances from cultivated rice and formed clusters distinct from cultivated rice. Coincidence in the genetic differentiation between the three different classes of genome was much higher in cultivated rice than in CWR. Among the 75 cultivars, about 3/4 entries were "homoeotype" showing congruent results for nuclear, mt and cpDNA regarding the Indica-Japonica differentiation. In CWR, the proportions of homoeotypes were 5.7%, 15% and 48.8% in China, South Asia and Southeast Asia, respectively. Based on the average genetic distance among all the strains of CWR and cultivated rice for nuclear and mitochondrial genomes, the variability of the nuclear genome was found to be higher than that of the mitochondrial genome. The global pattern based on all genomes shows much-more diversification in CWR than that in cultivated rice.
12582601	Comparative mapping of Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) involved in domestication of adaptative syndrome traits of pearl millet was realized at the intra-specific level using two F(2) populations derived from domesticated (Pennisetum glaucum ssp. glaucum) x wild (Pennisetum glaucum ssp. monodii) crosses. The two domesticated parents analyzed differ in their geographical origins, agronomic characteristics and life cycles. In both populations, two regions of the genome were identified on linkage groups 6 and 7, that controlled most of the key morphological differences. The importance of these two linkage groups reveals their central role both in the developmental control of spikelet structure and in the domestication process of this crop. In contrast, QTLs involved in traits that are components of yield and measure differences in resource allocation (such as the shape of the spike, the number of spikes per plant and plant height) show a low level of correspondence among our two crosses. The results of the comparative mapping between cereals, although preliminary, reveal that genes involved in seed-shattering could correspond in maize, rice and sorghum. The evolutionary significance of our results, and especially the relationships between genome organization and cereal domestication, are discussed. The potential use of these results in pearl millet genetic-resources enhancement are presented.
12582602	Plastid subtype ID (PS-ID) sequences were determined from sequence data based on CA repeats between genes rpl16 and rpl14 in Japanese lowland and upland cultivars. The PS-ID sequences of Japanese rice cultivars showed that there are different maternal origins between lowland and upland cultivars. One subtype, 6C7A, of PS-ID sequences was predominant in all but one Japanese lowland cultivar and carried a combination of the indica-specific subtype 8C8A and japonica-specific nuclear markers for the isozyme genotype. It is probably a nuclear-cytoplasmic recombinant resulting from natural out-crossing and succeeding self-pollination. The origin of the plastid was re-confirmed by the existence of an indica-specific deletion in the plastid genome. In contrast, the Japanese upland cultivars showed two subtypes, 7C6A and 6C7A, of PS-ID sequences. An upland-specific isozyme allele as a nuclear marker was equally predominant in cultivars carrying each subtype. The existence of these particular upland-specific nuclear and cytoplasmic genotypes suggests that the origin of Japanese upland cultivars is different from that of Japanese lowland cultivars. Cultivars carrying the upland-specific nuclear genotype are common in Southeast Asia, but the combination of the upland-specific nuclear and cytoplasmic genotypes which is the same as the Japanese upland predominant type was found in cultivars only in Taiwan and Indonesia. Japanese upland cultivars are closely related to those cultivars.
12582603	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling seed longevity in rice were identified using 98 backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a cross between a japonica variety Nipponbare and an indica variety Kasalath. Seeds of each BIL were kept for 12 months at 30 degrees C in dry conditions to promote loss of viability. To measure seed longevity, we performed an additional aging-processing treatment for 2 months at 30 degrees C maintaining seeds at 15% moisture content. We measured the germination percent of these treated seeds at 25 degrees C for 7 days as the degree of seed longevity. The germination of BILs ranged from 0 to 100% with continuous variation. Three putative QTLs for seed longevity, qLG-2, qLG-4 and qLG-9, were detected on chromosome 2, 4 and 9, respectively. Kasalath alleles increased the seed longevity at these QTLs. The QTL with the largest effect, qLG-9, explained 59.5% of total phenotypic variation in BILs. The other two QTLs, qLG-2 and qLG-4, explained 13.4 and 11.6% of the total phenotypic variation, respectively. We also verified the effect of the Kasalath allele of qLG-9 using chromosome segment substitution lines. Furthermore, QTLs for seed dormancy were identified on chromosomes 1, 3, 5, 7 and 11. Based on the comparison of the chromosomal location of QTLs for seed longevity and seed dormancy, these traits seem to be controlled by different genetic factors.
12582614	The casein kinase CK2 is one of the major multifunctional protein kinases in cells that is expressed ubiquitously and is essential for survival. The alpha-subunit of CK2 is thought to be involved in light-regulated gene expression and rhythmic expression of genes by circadian rhythm in plants. The rice chromosome-3 region containing the photoperiod-response Hd6 gene, an orthologue of the CK2alpha genes of Arabidopsis and maize, is in synteny with the wheat chromosome-5A Vrn-A1 region. This evidence proposes two possibilities, first the wheat Vrn-A1 is an orthologue of the rice CK2alpha, and second the wheat CK2alpha which has not yet been identified is located independently but tightly linked to Vrn-A1. To clarify whether the wheat CK2alpha gene is conserved in the Vrn-A1 region and to elucidate the above two possibilities, we attempted to isolate this gene from the wheat cDNA library and to map it on the chromosome-5A region that is syntenous to the rice Hd6 region. The isolated cDNA clone showed an extremely high homology with the Arabidopsis CK2alpha gene. Using this clone as a probe genomic Southern-blot analyses of the aneuploid lines available in Chinese Spring assigned the wheat homologue of CK2alpha to the long arm of chromosome 5A. Furthermore, a linkage analysis using an F(2) population having recombination in the Vrn-A1 region revealed that the wheat CK2alpha, designated as tck2a, is tightly linked to Vrn-A1 by 1.1 cM
12582630	Rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar development currently faces the task of overcoming yield plateaus, which is difficult due to the narrow genetic base of breeding programs. Oryza glumaepatula is a diploid wild relative of cultivated rice, native to Central and South America, and is therefore a potential source of alleles of agronomic importance to rice breeding programs. We studied 11 agronomic traits in BC(2)F(2) families of the interspecific cross Oryza sativa x O. glumaepatula. Transgressive lines which are almost isogenic to the elite recurrent O. sativa parent were identified for most of these traits. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was performed by single-point and interval mapping using a molecular map based on 157 microsatellite and STS markers. Marker regions accounting for 14.5 to 72.9% of a phenotypic variation trait were identified in 9 of the 12 rice chromosomes. Positive QTL effects from O. glumaepatula were observed in chromosomal regions associated with tillering and panicle-number traits.
12582636	The rice photoperiod sensitivity gene Hd3 was originally detected as a heading date-related quantitative trait locus localized on chromosome 6 of rice. High-resolution linkage mapping of Hd3 was performed using a large segregating population derived from advanced backcross progeny between a japonica variety, Nipponbare, and an indica variety, Kasalath. To determine the genotype of Hd3, we employed progeny testing under natural field and short-day conditions. As a result, two tightly linked loci, Hd3a and Hd3b, were identified in the Hd3 region. Nearly-isogenic lines for Hd3a and Hd3b were selected from progeny using marker-assisted selection. The inheritance mode of both Hd3a and Hd3b was found to be additive. Analysis of daylength response in nearly-isogenic lines of Hd3a and Hd3b showed that the Kasalath allele at Hd3a promotes heading under short-day conditions while that at Hd3b causes late heading under long-day and natural field conditions.
12582650	In the rainfed lowlands, rice (Oryza sativa L.) develops roots under anaerobic soil conditions with ponded water, prior to exposure to water stress and aerobic soil conditions that arise later in the season. Constitutive root system development in anaerobic soil conditions has been reported to have a positive effect on subsequent expression of adaptive root traits and water extraction during progressive water stress in aerobic soil conditions. We examined quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for constitutive root morphology traits using a mapping population derived from a cross between two rice lines which were well-adapted to rainfed lowland conditions. The effects of phenotyping environment and genetic background on QTLs identification were examined by comparing the experimental data with published results from four other populations. One hundred and eighty-four recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from a lowland indica cross (IR58821/IR52561) were grown under anaerobic conditions in two experiments. Seven traits, categorized into three groups (shoot biomass, deep root morphology, root thickness) were measured during the tillering stage. Though parental lines showed consistent differences in shoot biomass and root morphology traits across the two seasons, genotype-by-environment interaction (GxE) and QTL-by-environment interaction were significant among the progeny. Two, twelve, and eight QTLs for shoot biomass, deep root morphology, and root thickness, respectively, were identified, with LOD scores ranging from 2.0 to 12.8. Phenotypic variation explained by a single QTL ranged from 6% to 30%. Only two QTLs for deep root morphology, in RG256-RG151 in chromosome 2 and in PC75M3-PC11M4 in chromosome 4, were identified in both experiments. Comparison of positions of QTLs across five mapping populations (the current population plus populations from four other studies) revealed that these two QTLs for deep root morphology were only identified in populations that were phenotyped under anaerobic conditions. Fourteen and nine chromosome regions overlapped across different populations as putative QTLs for deep root morphology and root thickness, respectively. PC41M2-PC173M5 in chromosome 2 was identified as an interval that had QTLs for deep root morphology in four mapping populations. The PC75M3-PC11M4 interval in chromosome 4 was identified as a QTL for root thickness in three mapping populations with phenotypic variation explained by a single QTL consistently as large as 20-30%. Three QTLs for deep root morphology were found only in japonica/indica populations but not in IR58821/IR52561. The results identifying chromosome regions that had putative QTLs for deep root morphology and root thickness over different mapping populations indicate potential for marker-assisted selection for these traits.
12582653	The Cre/ lox site-specific recombination controls the excision of a target DNA segment by recombination between two loxsites flanking it, mediated by the Cre recombinase. We have studied the functional expression of the Cre/ lox system to excise a transgene from the rice genome. We developed transgenic plants carrying the target gene, hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) flanked by two lox sites and transgenic plants harboring the Cre gene. Each lox plant was crossed with each Cre plant reciprocally. In the Cre /lox hybrid plants, the Cre recombinase mediates recombination between two lox sites, resulting in excision of the hpt gene. The recombination event could be detected because it places the CaMV 35S promoter of the hpt gene adjacent to a promoterless gusA gene; as a result the gusA gene is activated and its expression could be visualized. In 73 Cre /lox hybrid plants from various crosses of T0 transgenic plants, 19 expressed GUS, and in 132 Cre /lox hybrid plants from crosses of T2 transgenic plants, 77 showed GUS expression. Molecular data proved the excision event occurred in all the GUS(+) plants. Recombination occurred with high efficiency at the early germinal stage, or randomly during somatic development stages.
12582654	Leaf color turns yellow during senescence due to the degradation of chlorophylls and photosynthetic proteins. A stay green mutant was isolated from the glutinous japonica rice Hwacheong- wx through N-methyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis. Leaves of the mutant remained green, while turning yellow in those of the wild-type rice during senescence. The stay green phenotype was controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene, tentatively symbolized as sgr(t). All the phenotypic characteristics of the mutant were the same as those of the wild-type lines except for the stay green trait. The leaf chlorophyll concentration of the mutant was similar to that of the wild-type before heading, but decreased steeply in the wild-type during grain filling, while very slowly in the mutant. However, no difference in photosynthetic activity was observed between the stay green mutant and the yellowing wild-type leaves, indicating that senescence is proceeding normally in the mutant leaves and that the mutation affects the rate of chlorophyll degradation during the leaf senescence. Using phenotypic and molecular markers, we mapped the sgr(t) locus to the long arm of chromosome 9 between RFLP markers RG662 and C985 at 1.8- and 2.1-cM intervals, respectively.
12582657	The rice cultivar Chubu 32 possesses a high level of partial resistance to leaf blast. The number and chromosomal location of genes conferring this resistance were detected by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) linkage mapping and quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. For the mapping, 149 F(3) lines derived from the cross between rice cultivar Norin 29, with a low level of partial resistance, and Chubu 32 were used, and their partial resistance to leaf blast was assessed in upland nurseries. A linkage map covering six chromosomes and consisting of 36 RFLP markers was constructed. In the map, only one significant QTL (LOD>2.0) for partial resistance was detected on chromosome 11. This QTL explained 45.6% of the phenotypic variation. The segregation ratio of the F3 lines was 3:1 for partial resistance to susceptibility. These results suggest that the partial resistance in Chubu 32 is controlled by a major gene.
12582658	Segregating T(1), T(2) and T(3) transgenic rice populations, derived from independent particle-bombardment-mediated transformation events were examined in order to assess the effect of gene dosage on transgene expression levels and stability. The expression level of the unselected beta-glucuronidase (gusA) reporter gene was quantified in plants from these populations. The gusA gene dosage was determined by segregation analysis of progeny seedlings at the structural level (by PCR) and at the expression level. For some transformation events a gene dosage effect on transgene expression was observed, leading to higher transgene expression levels in homozygous progeny than in hemizygous progeny or primary transgenic plants. However, in many other transformation events, the homozygous state appears to be disadvantageous, being associated with lower transgene expression levels, gene silencing or counter-selection of homozygous plants across generations. Change of gene dosage is probably one of the key factors influencing transgene expression levels and stability in transgenic rice. This is particularly important when considering molecular genetic studies and crop improvement programmes. The possible influence of matrix attachment regions (MARs) in increasing the likelihood of an additive effect on transgene expression level is discussed.
12582666	Appropriate heading date and plant height are prerequisites for attaining the desired yield level in rice breeding programs. In this study, we analyzed the genetic bases of heading date and plant height at both single- locus and two-locus levels, using a population of 240 F(2:3) families derived from a cross between two elite rice lines. Measurements for the traits were obtained over 2 years in replicated field trials. A linkage map was constructed with 151 polymorphic marker loci, based on which interval mapping was performed using Mapmaker/QTL. The analyses detected six QTLs for plant height and six QTLs for heading date; collectively the QTLs for heading date accounted for a much greater amount of phenotypic variation than did the QTLs for plant height. Two-way analyses of variance, with all possible two-locus combinations, detected large numbers (from 101 to 257) of significant digenic interactions in the 2 years for both traits involving markers distributed in the entire genome; 22 and 39 were simultaneously detected in both years for plant height and heading date, respectively. Each of the interactions individually accounted for only a very small portion of the phenotypic variation. The majority of the significant interactions involved marker loci that did not detect significant effects by single-locus analyses, and many of the QTLs detected by single-locus analyses were involved in epistatic interactions. The results clearly demonstrated the importance of epistatic interactions in the genetic bases of heading date and plant height.
12582678	This study was aimed at determining whether gene cassettes (promoter-coding sequence-terminator) can be efficiently used in microprojectile acceleration-mediated co-transformation of rice in the place of whole plasmids, and to what extent their use influences the integration and expression of the co-transferred gene of interest. Two non-linked marker genes (yfp and hph) were co-introduced by microprojectile bombardment into cells of embryogenic calli in three separate experiments. Three different DNA structures were compared for their ability to transiently and stably transform rice cells: supercoiled or linearized whole-plasmid DNA, gene cassette DNA and single-stranded gene cassette DNA coated with Escherichia coli single-stranded binding (SSB) proteins. Our results demonstrate that microprojectile bombardment-mediated transformation of rice using gene cassettes is possible without significantly reducing transformation efficiency in comparison to the use of whole-plasmid DNA. Furthermore, no obvious difference in transgene integration pattern and inheritance was observed among plants transformed with gene cassettes compared to those transformed with the whole plasmid, except that concatemerization of molecules prior to integration was rarely observed in gene cassette transformants.
12582680	The inheritance and expression patterns of the cry1Ab gene were studied in the progenies derived from different Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) transgenic japonica rice lines under field conditions. Both Mendelian and distorted segregation ratios were observed in some selfed and crossed F(2) populations. Crosses between japonica intra-subspecies had no significant effect on the segregation ratios of the cry1Ab gene, but crossing between japonica and indicainter-subspecies led to distorted segregation of the cry1Ab gene in the F(2)population. Field-release experiments indicated that the cry1Ab gene was stably transmitted in an intact manner via successive sexual generations, and the concentration of the Cry1Ab protein was kept quantitatively stable up to the R(6)generation. The cry1Ab gene, driven by the maize ubiquitinpromoter, displayed certain kinds of spatial and temporal expression patterns under field conditions. The content of the Cry1Ab protein varied in different tissues of the main stems, the primary tillers and the secondary tillers. Higher levels of the Cry1Ab protein were found in the stems, leaves and leaf sheaths than in the roots, while the lowest level was detected in grains at the maturation stage. The content of the Cry1Ab protein in the leaves peaked at the booting stage and was lowest at the heading stage. Furthermore, the Cry1Ab content of cry1Ab expression in different tissues of transgenic rice varied individually with temperature.
12582684	In the course of transferring the brown planthopper resistance from a diploid, CC-genome wild rice species, Oryza eichingeri (IRGC acc. 105159 and 105163), to the cultivated rice variety 02428, we have isolated many alien addition and introgression lines. The O. eichingeri chromatin in some of these lines has previously been identified using genomic in situ hybridization and molecular-marker analysis. Here we cloned a tandemly repetitive DNA sequence from O. eichingeri IRGC acc105163, and detected it in 25 introgression lines. This repetitive DNA sequence showed high specificity to the rice CC genome, but was absent from all the four tetraploid species with BBCC or CCDD genomes. The monomer in this repetitive DNA sequence is 325-366-bp long, with a copy number of about 5,000 per 1 C of the O. eichingerigenome, showing 88% homology to a repetitive DNA sequence isolated from Oryza officinalis(2n=2 x=24, CC). Fluorescent in situ hybridization revealed 11 signals distributed over eight O. eichingeri chromosomes, mostly in terminal or subterminal regions.
12582694	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs), conferring quantitative resistance to rice brown planthopper (BPH), were investigated using 160 F(11) recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the Lemont/Teqing cross, a complete RFLP map, and replicated phenotyping of seedbox inoculation. The paternal indica parent, Teqing, was more-resistant to BPH than the maternal japonica parent, Lemont. The RILs showed transgressive segregation for resistance to BPH. Seven main-effect QTLs and many epistatic QTL pairs were identified and mapped on the 12 rice chromosomes. Collectively, the main-effect and epistatic QTLs accounted for over 70% of the total variation in damage scores. Teqing has the resistance allele at four main-effect QTLs, and the Lemont allele resulted in resistance at the other three. Of the main-effect QTLs identified, QBphr5b was mapped to the vicinity of gl1, a major gene controlling leaf and stem pubescence. The Teqing allele controlling leaf and stem pubescence was associated with resistance, while the Lemont allele for glabrous stem and leaves was associated with susceptibility, indicating that this gene may have contributed to resistance through antixenosis. Similar to the reported BPH resistance genes, the other six detected main-effect QTLs were all mapped to regions where major disease resistance genes locate, suggesting they might have contributed either to antibiosis or tolerance. Our results indicated that marker-aided pyramiding of major resistance genes and QTLs should provide effective and stable control over this devastating pest.
12582713	Starch comprises about 90% of milled rice, so that the eating and cooking quality of rice is mainly affected by the starch properties. In the present paper, we analyzed the genetical behavior of gelatinization temperature tested by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), gel texture, and the swelling volume (SV) of indica rice with an incomplete cross of 4x8 parents. A genetic model which can dissect the effects of triploid seed, the cytoplasm, and the maternal plant on the endosperm traits was used. The results indicated that peak temperature (T(p)), conclusion temperature (T(c)) and enthalpy (DeltaH) were controlled by three types of genetic effects: seed direct (endosperm) effects, cytoplasmic effects and maternal effects. No cytoplasmic effects for the onset temperature (T(o)), hardness and SV, and no maternal effects for cohesiveness were found. The additive variances (V (A)+ V (Am)) were larger than the dominance variances (V (D)+ V (Dm)) for all the traits except for T(c), which suggested that selection could be applied for the starch properties in early generations. The total narrow-sense heritability for each parameter was over 60%, indicating that selection advances were predictable in the early generations for these traits.
12582730	Comprehensive analysis of genetic information in higher plants is under way for several plants of biological and agronomical importance. Among them, Arabidopsis thaliana, a member of Brassica family, and Oryza sativa(rice) have been chosen as model plants most suitable for genome analysis. Sequencing of the genome of A. thaliana was completed in December 2000, and rice genome sequencing is in progress. The accumulated genome sequences, together with the hundreds of thousands of ESTs from several tens of plant species, have drastically changed the strategy of plant genetics. By utilizing the information on the genome and gene structures, comprehensive approaches for genome-wide functional analysis of the genes, including transcriptome analysis using microarray systems and a comprehensive analysis of a large number of insertion mutant lines, have been widely adopted. As a consequence, a large quantity of information on both the structure and function of genes in these model plants has been accumulated. However, other plant species may have their own characteristics and advantages to study individual phenomena. Application of knowledge from the model plants to other plant species and vice versa through the common language, namely the genome information, should facilitate understanding of the genetic systems underlying a variety of biological phenomena. Introduction of this common language may not be very simple, especially in the case of complex pathways such as a process of cell-covering formation. Nevertheless, it should be emphasized that genomics approaches are the most promising way to understand these processes.
12582854	Sheath blight (Rhizoctonia solani Kühn) is one of the severe rice diseases worldwide. In this study, an F(2) population from a cross between "4011" and "Xiangzaoxian19" is used to identify molecular markers linked with the resistant trait. "4011" was a transgenic rice cultivar carrying a resistant gene to sheath blight, while "Xiangzaoxian19" is a highly susceptible one. As a result, five molecular markers, including three RFLP markers converted from RAPD and AFLP markers, and two SSR markers were identified to link with the sheath blight resistant gene. This dominant resistant gene was named as R sb 1 and mapped on rice chromosome 5. The linkage distance between the markers (E-AT:M-CAC(120), E-AT:M-CTA(230), OPN-16(2000), RM164(320) and RM39(300)) and R sb 1 was 1.6 cM, 9.9 cM, 1.6 cM, 15.2 cM and 1.6 cM, respectively.
12582859	"Zhenshan 97" is the female parent of a number of widely used hybrids for rice production in China. However, this line is of poor quality because of a high amylose content (AC), a hard gel consistency (GC) and a low gelatinization temperature (GT), together with a chalky endosperm. It had been determined that the three traits for cooking and eating quality, AC, GC and GT, are controlled by the Waxy locus and/or the tightly linked genomic region. In this study we improved the eating and cooking quality of Zhenshan 97 by introgressing the Waxy gene region from Minghui 63 (wx-MH), a restorer line, that has medium AC, soft GC and high GT. The wx-MH fragment was transferred to Zhenshan 97B by three backcrosses and one selfing, then from Zhenshan 97B to Zhenshan 97A by a cross and a backcross. Molecular marker-assisted selection was applied in the series to select for individuals carrying wx-MH, to identify recombination between the Waxy and flanking markers, and also to recover the genetic background of the recurrent parent. According to the marker genotypes, the improved versions of Zhenshan 97B and Zhenshan 97A, or Zhenshan 97B(wx-MH) and Zhenshan 97A(wx-MH), were the same as the originals except for the Waxy region of less than 6.1 cM in length. The selected lines and their hybrids with Minghui 63, or Shanyou 63(wx-MH), showed a reduced AC and an increased GC and GT, coupled with a reduced grain opacity. Field examinations of agronomic performance revealed that Zhenshan 97B(wx-MH) and Shanyou 63(wx-MH) were essentially the same as the originals except for a significant decrease in grain weight. The simultaneous improvement of AC, GA, GT and opacity, indicated that the Waxy region had major effects on the four quality traits. The improved versions of Zhenshan 97 A and B should be immediately useful in hybrid rice production.
12582865	Here we describe the development of transgene-pyramided stable elite rice lines resistant to disease and insect pests by conventional crossing of two transgenic parental lines transformed independently with different genes. The Xa21 gene (resistance to bacterial blight), the Bt fusion gene (for insect resistance) and the chitinase gene (for tolerance of sheath blight) were combined in a single rice line by reciprocal crossing of two transgenic homozygous IR72 lines. F4 plant lines carrying all the genes of interest stably were identified using molecular methods. The identified lines, when exposed to infection caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae, showed resistance to bacterial blight. Neonate larval mortality rates of yellow stem borer (Scirpophaga incertulas) in an insect bioassay of the same identified lines were 100%. The identified line pyramided with different genes to protect against yield loss showed high tolerance of sheath blight disease caused by Rhizoctonia solani.
12582876	To study genetic diversity and relationships of wild relatives of rice, 58 accessions of Oryza rufipogon, Oryza nivara, Oryza sativa f. spontanea and the cultivated Oryza sativa, representing a wide range of their distribution, were analyzed using the restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) technique. All 30-used RFLP probes detected polymorphisms among the Oryza accessions, with an average of 3.8 polymorphic fragments per probe. Considerable genetic diversity was scored among the Oryza accessions with a similarity coefficient ranging from 0.28 to 0.93; but the cluster analysis of the accessions did not show an apparent grouping based on the species classification, instead they were scattered randomly in different groups. Noticeably, the Oryza accessions from the same geographic region, or near-by geographic regions, tended to be clustered in the same groups. The indica rice varieties showed relatively high genetic diversity and were scattered in different groups of their wild relatives, but the japonica varieties showed a relatively low variation and formed an independent group. It is concluded from the molecular analytical result that: (1) the four Oryza taxa have a remarkably close relationship and their independent species status need to be carefully reviewed; (2) geographic isolation has played a significant role in the differentiation of the Oryza accessions; therefore, a wide geographic range needs to be covered in collecting wild rice germplasm for ex situ conservation; and (3) the conventional conclusion of indica rice being directly domesticated from its ancestral wild species, and japonica rice being derived from indica, gains support from our data.
12582887	Rice glutelins consist of acidic (alpha) and basic (beta) subunits which are further separated into three polypeptide components assigned as alpha-1, alpha-2, and alpha-3 subunit components and beta-1, beta-2 and beta-3 subunit components. Nine rice mutant lines with a decreased amount of the glutelin alpha-2 subunit component (alpha-2L) were obtained by screening about 6,800 potential mutant lines derived from the fertilized egg treatment with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) using the SDS-PAGE method. The mutants were classified into three types of the increased alpha-1 subunit (alpha-1H/alpha-2L), the decreased beta-2 subunit (beta-2L/alpha-2L) and the increased alpha-3 subunit (alpha-3H/alpha-2L) represented by EM278, CM1707 and EM659, respectively. Iso-electric focus (IEF) analysis revealed that all of the mutants had an extremely low amount of a polypeptide with a 6.71 pI value, whereas a polypeptide with either a 6.50 pI value or with a 6.90 pI value increased significantly in alpha-1H/alpha-2L mutants or in alpha-3H/alpha-2L mutants, respectively. The beta-2L/alpha-2L mutants had a decreased amount of a basic polypeptide with a 8.74 pI value. Genetic analysis revealed that the three types of mutants were controlled by a single incomplete dominant gene respectively, and the three are alleles. The gene was temporarily named glu4, which was found to be located on chromosome 1 linked with the eg and spl6 genes. Two-dimensional electrophoresis analysis revealed that the glu4 encoded polypeptides of pI 6.71/alpha-2 and pI 8.74/beta-2. Amino acid sequence analysis suggested that the mutated acidic polypeptide was the product of a GluA subfamily gene. Northern and RT-PCR analyses revealed that glu4 corresponded to the GluA-1 gene.
12582891	A linkage map consisting of 158 DNA markers were constructed by using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from the indica-indica rice cross Zhenshan 97B x Milyang 46. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conditioning grain yield and five yield component traits were determined at the one-locus and two-locus levels, and genotype-by-environment (GE) interactions were analyzed. Thirty-one QTLs were detected to have significant additive effects for yield traits, of which 12 also exhibited significant epistatic effects. Sixteen significant additive-by-additive (AA) interactions were detected, of which nine occurred between QTLs with own additive effects (M(ep)QTLs), four occurred between QTLs showing epistatic effects only (epQTLs), and three occurred between M(ep)QTLs and epQTLs. Significant GE interactions were found for six QTLs with additive effects and one AA interaction. Generally, the contributions to the phenotypic variation were higher due to QTL main effects than to epistatic effects. The detection of additive effects and AA effects of a QTL interfered with each other, indicating that the detection of QTLs with main effects, as well as the magnitude and directions of the additive effects, might vary depending on their interactions with other loci.
12582903	Transgenic rice (Oryza sativa cv. Sasanishiki) overexpressing the wasabi defensin gene, a plant defensin effective against the rice blast fungus, was generated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Twenty-two T2 homozygous lines harboring the wasabi defensin gene were challenged by the blast fungus. Transformants exhibited resistance to rice blast at various levels. The inheritance of the resistance over generations was investigated. T3 plants derived from two highly blast-resistant T2 lines (WT14-5 and WT43-5) were challenged with the blast fungus using the press-injured spots method. The average size of disease lesions of the transgenic line WT43-5 was reduced to about half of that of non-transgenic plants. The 5-kDa peptide, corresponding to the processed form of the wasabi defensin, was detected in the total protein fraction extracted from the T3 progeny. Transgenic rice plants overproducing wasabi defensin are expected to possess a durable and wide-spectrum resistance (i.e. field resistance) against various rice blast races.
12582913	The relationship between transgene copy number, rearrangement levels, inheritance patterns, expression levels, transgene stability and plant fertility was analysed in a random population of 95 independently transformed rice plant lines. This analysis has been conducted for both the selectable marker gene (aphIV) and the unselected reporter gene (gusA), in the presence or absence of flanking Matrix Attachment Regions (MARs) in order to develop a better understanding of transgene behaviour in a population of transgenic rice plants created by particle bombardment. In the first generation (T(0)), all the independently transformed plant lines contained and expressed the aphIV gene conferring resistance to hygromycin, but only 87% of the lines were co-transformed with the unselected gusA marker gene. Both transgenes seemed to be expressed independently. Most lines exhibited complex transgene rearrangements as well as an intact transgene expression unit for both aphIV and gusA transgenes. Transgene copy number was proportional to the quantity of DNA used during bombardment. In T(0) plants, high gusA copy number significantly decreased GUS expression levels but there was no correlation between expression level and transgene copy number across the entire population of lines. Four main factors impaired transgene expression in primary transgenic plants (T(0)) and their progeny (T(1)): (1) absence of transgene expression in T(0) plants (41% of lines), (2) sterility of T(0) plants (28% of lines), (3) non-transmission of intact transgenes to some or all progenies (at least 14% of lines), and (4) silencing of transgene expression in progeny plants (10% of lines). Transgene stability was significantly related to differences in transgene structure and expression levels. The presence of Rb7 MARs flanking the gusA expression unit had no effect on plant fertility or non-transmission of transgenes, but provided copy number-dependent expression of the transgene and improved expression levels and stability over two generations. Overall, only 7% of the plant lines without MARs and 17% of the lines with MARs initially generated, exhibited stable transgene expression over two generations.
12582914	A major QTL for P uptake had previously been mapped to a 13-cM marker interval on the long arm of chromosome 12. To map that major QTL with higher precision and certainty, a secondary mapping population was developed by backcrossing a near-isogenic line containing the QTL from the donor parent to the recurrent parent of low P uptake. Two different mapping strategies have been followed in this study. A conventional QTL mapping approach was based on individual F(2) RFLP data and the phenotypic evaluation of family means in the F(3). The second strategy employed a substitution-mapping approach. Phenotypic and marker data were obtained for 160 F(3) individuals of six highly informative families that differed in the size of donor chromosomal segments in the region of the putative QTL. QTL mapping showed that close to 80% of the variation between families was due to a single QTL, hereafter referred to as Pup1 (Phosphorus uptake 1). Pup1 was placed in a 3-cM interval flanked by markers S14025 and S13126, which is within 1 cM of the position identified in the original QTL mapping experiment. Other chromosomal regions and epistatic effects were not significant. Substitution mapping revealed that Pup1 co-segregated with marker S13126 and that the flanking markers, S14025 and S13752, were outside the interval containing Pup1. The two mapping strategies therefore yielded almost identical results and, in combining the advantages of both, Pup1 could be mapped with high certainty. The QTL mapping appoach showed that the phenotypic variation between families was due to only one QTL without any additional epistacic interactions, whereas the advantage of substitution mapping was to place clearly defined borders around the QTL.
12582915	Rice starch is composed of amylose and amylopectin. Amylose content, an important determinant of rice starch quality, is primarily controlled by the waxy gene, encoding granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS). The starch branching enzyme (SBE) and soluble starch synthase (SSS) play major roles in the synthesis of amylopectin. Microsatellite polymorphisms in the three genes, the wx gene encoding granule-bound starch synthase I, the SBE gene encoding starch branching enzyme I and the SSS gene encoding soluble starch synthase I, were studied for 56 accessions of waxy rice (Oryza sativa L.). Four (CT)(n) microsatellite alleles, (CT)(16), (CT)(17), (CT)(18) and (CT)(19), at the wx locus were detected in this set of waxy rice, of which (CT)(17) was the most frequent. Three (CT)(n) microsatellite allele classes were found at the SBE locus, (CT)(8) or (CT)(10) together with an insertion sequence of CTCTCGGGCGA, and (CT)(8) alone without the insertion. There were multiple microsatellites clustered at the SSS locus. However, these alleles can also be grouped into three classes, i.e. the allele class SSS-A = (AC)(2) em leader TCC(TC)(11) em leader (TC)(5)C(ACC)(11), the allele class SSS-B = (AC)(3) em leader TCT(TC)(6) em leader (TC)(4)C(ACC)(9), and the allele class SSS-C = (AC)(3) em leader TCT(TC)(6) em leader (TC)(4)C(ACC)(8). The analyses of starch physicochemical properties among different microsatellite genotypes indicated that the waxy rice group with the (CT)(19) allele, the SBE-A allele and the SSS-B allele was quite different from other groups. Nine out of 15 accessions with a high gelatinization temperature (GT) belonged to the wx (CT)(19) group, all of them belonged to the SBE-A group and 13 of them belonged to the SSS-B group. These microsatellites might be useful in marker-assisted breeding for the improvement of rice grain quality.
12582916	Reproductive barriers often arise in hybrid progeny between two varietal groups of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), Japonica and Indica. Hybrid breakdown showing poor growth habit, and complete sterility was found in the backcrossed progeny derived from a cross between a Japonica variety, Asominori, and an Indica variety, IR24. We employed RFLP analysis in the segregating population to study the genetic basis underlying hybrid breakdown. It was found that the hybrid breakdown is caused by a set of two nuclear genes, which were symbolized as hwe1 and hwe2. The parental varieties, Asominori and IR24, carry hwe1(+) hwe1(+) hwe2hwe2 and hwe1hwe1hwe2(+) hwe2(+) genotypes, respectively, whereas the progenies that showed a weakness performance carry the double recessive genotype (hwe1hwe1hwe2hwe2). Abnormality was not observed in the progenies that carry the other genotypes, indicating that a single dominant allele at either locus is necessary for normal growth. Based on linkage analysis with RFLP markers, the hwe1 locus was located between RFLP markers R1869 and S1437 on chromosome 12 and the hwe2 locus was located between R3192 and C1211 on chromosome 1. The genetic basis was reconfirmed using near-isogenic lines carrying the genes with reciprocal genetic backgrounds. The present study provides clear evidence, viewed by previous workers, that hybrid breakdown is attributed to complementary genes from both parents.
12582932	An approach called growth model-based mapping (GMM) of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) is proposed in this paper. The principle of the approach is to fit the growth curve of each individual or line with a theoretical or empirical growth model at first and then map QTLs based on the estimated growth parameters with the method of multiple-trait composite interval mapping. In comparison with previously proposed approaches of QTL mapping based on growth data, GMM has several advantages: (1) it can greatly reduce the amount of phenotypic data for QTL analysis and thus alleviate the burden of computation, particularly when permutation tests or simulation are performed to estimate significance thresholds; (2) it can efficiently analyze unbalanced phenotype data because both balanced and unbalanced data can be used for fitting growth models; and (3) it may potentially help us to better understand the genetic basis of quantitative trait development because the parameters in a theoretical growth model may often have clear biological meanings. A practical example of rice leaf-age development is presented to demonstrate the utility of GMM.
12582934	We report one large-insert BIBAC library and three BAC libraries for japonica rice cv Nipponbare. The BIBAC library was constructed in the HindIII site of a plant-transformation-competent binary vector (pCLD04541) and the three BAC libraries were constructed in the BamHI, HindIII and EcoRI sites of a BAC vector (pECBAC1), respectively. Each library contains 23,040 clones, has an average insert size of 130 kb, 170 kb, 150 kb and 156 kb, and covers 6.7x, 8.7x, 7.7x and 8.0 x rice haploid genomes, respectively. The combined libraries contain 92,160 clones in total, covering 31.1 x rice haploid genomes. To demonstrate their utility, we screened the libraries with 55 DNA markers mapped to chromosome 8 of the rice genetic maps and analyzed a number of clones by the restriction fingerprinting and contig assembly method. The results indicate that the libraries completely cover the rice genome and, thus, are well-suited for genome research in rice and other gramineous crops. The BIBAC library represents the first plant-transformation-competent large-insert DNA library for rice, which will streamline map-based cloning, functional analysis of the rice genome sequence and molecular breeding in rice and other grass species. These libraries are being used in the development of a whole-genome, BAC/BIBAC-based, integrated physical, genetic and sequence map of rice and in the research of genome-wide comparative genomics of grass species.
12582936	A comparative map of American wildrice (Zizania palustris var. interior L.) was used to identify loci controlling seed shattering, plant height, maturity, tiller number, plant habit, panicle length seed length, and color traits. Two to six significant quantitative-trait-loci (QTLs, P < 0.05) were detected for each trait evaluated, representing the first trait-mapping in wildrice. The chosen population was designed to emphasize the mapping of loci controlling the shattering trait, which is the most important trait in the management of this newly domesticated species. Three loci were detected that controlled the discretely categorized variation between shattering and non-shattering plants. Seed-shattering loci were detected and validated among the F(2) and F(3) generations. A multiple regression model with these three loci described 49.6% of the additive genetic variation. A genetic model with the same three loci including dominance and locus interactions predicted the shattering versus non-shattering phenotype at a success rate of 87%. The comparative map was based on mapped RFLP markers used in white rice (Oryza sativa L.) and other grass species. Anchor loci provided a reference point for the identification of potential orthologous genes on the basis of white rice mutant loci and consensus grass species QTLs. Candidate orthologous loci were identified among all traits evaluated. The study underscores the benefits of extending trait analysis through comparative mapping, as well as challenges of QTL analysis in a newly domesticated species.
12584129	cMap, a www comparative genetic map graphical utility, has a search capability and provides comparison of two genetic maps within or between species with dynamic links to data resources and text lists of the shared loci, running in a relational database environment. Currently, maps from three species (maize 'Zea mays L.', rice 'Oryza sativa L.', and sorghum 'Sorghum bicolor L.'), representing over 13,800 distinct loci, are available for comparison at http://www.agron.missouri.edu/cMapDB/cMap.html. cMap source code is available without cost on request for non-commercial use.
12586140	A study was carried out of Cu adsorption and desorption processes in red soil as affected by o-phenylenediamine (o-PD) in the range 0-80 mg/l. The results indicated that the presence of o-PD enhanced Cu adsorption in red soil in weakly acid media, meanwhile, desorption percentage of Cu from soil, extracted by 1.0 M MgCl(2), also increased when Cu adsorption in soil occurred in the presence of o-PD. The response of paddy rice to Cu in red soil shows that Cu toxicity was mitigated in the presence of o-PD and that the Cu concentration in rice straw decreased with increasing concentration of o-PD from 0 to 4.0 mmol/kg in soil. The fractions of background Cu in soil did not change noticeably in the presence of o-PD, whereas the effect of o-PD on the fractions of added Cu was significant. It was found that the exchangeable and carbonate bound Cu fractions decreased and the fraction of Cu bound to Fe-Mn oxides and organic matter increased with increasing o-PD concentration in soil when Cu was added at the same rate. Copper concentration in rice straw was significantly correlated with exchangeable Cu (r=0.961) and carbonate bound Cu (r=0.959) in soil. This result implicates that the behavior of Cu in soil is likely to be affected by organic pollutants containing amino groups.
12586718	Eukaryotic poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) is a ubiquitous, essential factor involved in mRNA biogenesis, translation, and turnover. Most eukaryotes examined have only one or a few PABPs. In contrast, eight expressed PABP genes are present in Arabidopsis thaliana. These genes fall into three distinct classes, based on highly concordant results of (i) phylogenetic analysis of the amino acid sequences of the encoded proteins, (ii) analysis of the intron number and placement, and (iii) surveys of gene expression patterns. Representatives of each of the three classes also exist in the rice genome, suggesting that the diversification of the plant PABP genes has occurred prior to the split of monocots and dicots >or=200 MYA. Experiments with the recombinant PAB3 protein suggest the possibility of a negative feedback regulation, as well as of cross-regulation between the Arabidopsis PABPs that belong to different classes but are simultaneously expressed in the same cell type. Such a high complexity of the plant PABPs might enable a very fine regulation of organismal growth and development at the post-transcriptional level, compared with PABPs of other eukaryotes.
12586876	Trehalose plays an important role in stress tolerance in plants. Trehalose-producing, transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants were generated by the introduction of a gene encoding a bifunctional fusion (TPSP) of the trehalose-6-phosphate (T-6-P) synthase (TPS) and T-6-P phosphatase (TPP) of Escherichia coli, under the control of the maize (Zea mays) ubiquitin promoter (Ubi1). The high catalytic efficiency (Seo et al., 2000) of the fusion enzyme and the single-gene engineering strategy make this an attractive candidate for high-level production of trehalose; it has the added advantage of reducing the accumulation of potentially deleterious T-6-P. The trehalose levels in leaf and seed extracts from Ubi1::TPSP plants were increased up to 1.076 mg g fresh weight(-1). This level was 200-fold higher than that of transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants transformed independently with either TPS or TPP expression cassettes. The carbohydrate profiles were significantly altered in the seeds, but not in the leaves, of Ubi1::TPSP plants. It has been reported that transgenic plants with E. coli TPS and/or TPP were severely stunted and root morphology was altered. Interestingly, our Ubi1::TPSP plants showed no growth inhibition or visible phenotypic alterations despite the high-level production of trehalose. Moreover, trehalose accumulation in Ubi1::TPSP plants resulted in increased tolerance to drought, salt, and cold, as shown by chlorophyll fluorescence and growth inhibition analyses. Thus, our results suggest that trehalose acts as a global protectant against abiotic stress, and that rice is more tolerant to trehalose synthesis than dicots.
12587220
12587737	Esterase variation was studied in plants regenerated from callus cultures of four rice (Oryza sativa) varieties, viz. pokkali, which is a moderately salt tolerant variety and three salt sensitive varieties MI 48, annapoorna and jyothi. Variation was studied at tillering stage of plants regenerated from callus culture and germinated from seeds. Somaclonal variants for salt tolerance could be detected using variation in esterase banding pattern and activity.
12588724	Root flooding is damaging to the growth of crop plants such as soybean (Glycine max L.). Field flooding for 3 d often results in leaf chlorosis, defoliation, cessation of growth and plant death. These effects have been widely attributed solely to a lack of oxygen in the root-zone. However, an additional damaging factor may be CO(2), which attains levels of 30 % (v/v) of total dissolved gases. Accordingly, the effects of root-zone CO(2) on oxygen-deficient soybean plants were investigated in hydroponic culture. Soybean plants are shown to be very tolerant of excess water and anaerobiosis. No oxygen (100 % N(2) gas) and low oxygen (non-aerated) treatments for 14 d had no effect on soybean survival or leaf greenness, but plants became severely chlorotic and stunted when the roots were exposed to no oxygen together with CO(2) concentrations similar to those in flooded fields (equilibrium concentrations of 30 %). When root-zone CO(2) was increased to 50 %, a quarter of soybean plants died. Those plants that survived showed severe symptoms of chlorosis, necrosis and root death. In contrast, rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were not affected by the combination of no oxygen and elevated root-zone CO(2.) A concentration of 50 % CO(2) did not affect rice plant survival or leaf colour. These results suggest that the high susceptibility of soybean to soil flooding, compared with that of rice, is an outcome of its greater sensitivity to CO(2).
12588727	In many varieties of rice, the length of basal pores on the thecae just after anthesis is strongly correlated both with the percentage of florets receiving adequate pollen and with the number of pollen grains deposited on the stigmata and its variation (coefficient of variation). Therefore, the size of the basal pores is considered to be an important factor for the reliable self-pollination of rice. We discuss how long basal pores may facilitate self- pollination.
12588869	EL5, a RING-H2 finger protein, is rapidly induced by N-acetylchitooligosaccharides in rice cell. We expressed the EL5 RING-H2 finger domain in Escherichia coli and determined its structure in solution by NMR spectroscopy. The EL5 RING-H2 finger domain consists of two-stranded beta-sheets (beta1, Ala(147)-Phe(149); beta2, Gly(156)-His(158)), one alpha-helix (Cys(161)-Leu(166)), and two large N- and C-terminal loops. It is stabilized by two tetrahedrally coordinated zinc ions. This structure is similar to that of other RING finger domains of proteins of known function. From structural analogies, we inferred that the EL5 RING-H2 finger is a binding domain for ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2). The binding site is probably formed by solvent-exposed hydrophobic residues of the N- and C-terminal loops and the alpha-helix. We demonstrated that the fusion protein with EL5-(96-181) and maltose-binding protein (MBP) was polyubiquitinated by incubation with ubiquitin, ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1), and a rice E2 protein, OsUBC5b. This supported the idea that the EL5 RING finger domain is essential for ubiquitin-ligase activity of EL5. By NMR titration experiments, we identified residues that are critical for the interaction between the EL5 RING-H2 finger and OsUBC5b. We conclude that the RING-H2 finger domain of EL5 is the E2 binding site of EL5.
12589540	A software tool was developed for the identification of simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) EST (expressed sequence tag) database comprising 24,595 sequences. In total, 1,856 SSR-containing sequences were identified. Trimeric SSR repeat motifs appeared to be the most abundant type. A subset of 311 primer pairs flanking SSR loci have been used for screening polymorphisms among six barley cultivars, being parents of three mapping populations. As a result, 76 EST-derived SSR-markers were integrated into a barley genetic consensus map. A correlation between polymorphism and the number of repeats was observed for SSRs built of dimeric up to tetrameric units. 3'-ESTs yielded a higher portion of polymorphic SSRs (64%) than 5'-ESTs did. The estimated PIC (polymorphic information content) value was 0.45 +/- 0.03. Approximately 80% of the SSR-markers amplified DNA fragments in Hordeum bulbosum, followed by rye, wheat (both about 60%) and rice (40%). A subset of 38 EST-derived SSR-markers comprising 114 alleles were used to investigate genetic diversity among 54 barley cultivars. In accordance with a previous, RFLP-based, study, spring and winter cultivars, as well as two- and six-rowed barleys, formed separate clades upon PCoA analysis. The results show that: (1) with the software tool developed, EST databases can be efficiently exploited for the development of cDNA-SSRs, (2) EST-derived SSRs are significantly less polymorphic than those derived from genomic regions, (3) a considerable portion of the developed SSRs can be transferred to related species, and (4) compared to RFLP-markers, cDNA-SSRs yield similar patterns of genetic diversity.
12590342	The objective of this study was molecular characterization of a set of deletion stocks and other aneuploids for use in chromosome bin mapping of ESTs in wheat. Wheat aneuploid stocks including 21 nullisomic-tetrasomic (NT), 24 ditelosomic (Dt), and 101 deletion (del) lines were screened with 526 EST clones. A total of 1,951 loci were detected by 493 informative EST clones and tagged 150 of the 159 deletion intervals or chromosome bins. Previously described deletion lines del1AS-4, del6AL-2, del6BS-6, and del7DS-6 were found to have normal chromosome constitution. The short arm deletion in del3AS-3 may be translocated from an unknown chromosome as this stock is nullisomic for the 3AS arm. Thirty-five new deletions were detected in 26 lines. Most of the new deletions occurred in terminal regions of chromosomes and probably resulted from the loss of very small terminal fragments that were difficult to detect cytologically. Eleven chromosome aberrations were also detected in two NT and five Dt lines. Overall, the chromosome bin map provides a resolution of around 28 Mb for an anchor map of a basic set of seven chromosomes of the Triticeae. Any target gene can be allocated to a specific 28-Mb bin and associated ESTs, anchored to the other Triticeae/grass maps including rice and, therefore, amenable to molecular cloning by comparative and wheat-based positional cloning methods.
12590343	A bacterial-artificial-chromosome (BAC) clone from the genome of Triticum tauschii, the D-genome ancestor of hexaploid bread wheat, was sequenced and the presence of the two paralogous x- and y-type high-molecular-weight (HMW) glutenin genes of the Glu-D1 locus was confirmed. These two genes occur in the same orientation, are 51,893 bp apart, and the separating DNA includes a 31,000-bp cluster of retrotransposons. A second retrotransposon cluster of 32,000 bp follows the x-type HMW-glutenin gene region. Each HMW-glutenin gene is found within a region of mainly unique DNA sequence which includes multiple additional genes including an active endosperm globulin gene not previously reported in the Triticeae family, a leucine-rich-repeat (LRR) type gene truncated at the 5' end of the BAC, a kinase gene of unknown activity, remnants of a paralogous second globulin gene, and genes similar to two hypothetical rice genes. The newly identified globulin genes are assigned to a locus designated Glo-2. Comparison to available orthologous regions of the wheat A and B genomes show rapid sequence divergences flanking the HMW-glutenin genes, and the absence of two hypothetical and unknown genes found 5' to the B-genome x-type ortholog. The region surrounding the Glu-D1 locus is similar to other reported Triticeae BAC sequences; i.e. small gene islands separated by retrotransposon clusters.
12590345	Wheat and barley contain at least four classes of starch synthases in the endosperm, granule bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) and starch synthases I, II and III (SSI, SSII, SSIII). In this work, SSII in barley is shown to be associated with the starch granule by using antibodies. A cDNA from barley encoding SSII and the genes for SSII from barley and Aegilops tauschii (A. tauschii, the D genome donor to wheat) are characterised. Fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) and PCR were used to localise the wheat SSII gene to the short arm of chromosome 7, showing synteny with the location of the rice SSII gene to the short arm of chromosome 6. Comparison of the genes encoding SSII of A. tauschii, barley and Arabidopsis showed a conserved exon-intron structure although the size of the introns varied considerably. Extending such comparison between the genes encoding starch synthases (GBSSI, SSI, SSII and SSIII) from A. tauschii and Arabidopsis showed that the exon-intron structures are essentially conserved. Separate and distinct genes for the individual starch synthases therefore existed before the separation of monocotyledons and dicotyledons.
12590493	Two 8-8-coupled sinapic acid dehydrodimers and at least three sinapate-ferulate heterodimers have been identified as saponification products from different insoluble and soluble cereal grain dietary fibers. The two 8-8-disinapates were authenticated by comparison of their GC retention times and mass spectra with authentic dehydrodimers synthesized from methyl or ethyl sinapate using two different single-electron metal oxidant systems. The highest amounts (481 microg/g) were found in wild rice insoluble dietary fiber. Model reactions showed that it is unlikely that the dehydrodisinapates detected are artifacts formed from free sinapic acid during the saponification procedure. The dehydrodisinapates presumably derive from radical coupling of sinapate-polymer esters in the cell wall; the radical coupling origin is further confirmed by finding 8-8 and 8-5 (and possibly 8-O-4) sinapate-ferulate cross-products. Sinapates therefore appear to have an analogous role to ferulates in cross-linking polysaccharides in cereal grains and presumably grass cell walls in general.
12590928	We analyzed the DNA-binding and DNA-bending properties of recombinant HMGB1 proteins based on a rice HMGB1 cDNA. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay demonstrated that rice HMGB1 can bind synthetic four-way junction (4H) DNA and DNA minicircles efficiently but the binding to 4H can be completed out by HMGA and histone H1. Conformational changes were detected by circular dichroism analysis with 4H DNA bound to various concentrations of HMGB1 or its truncated forms. T4 ligase-mediated circularization assays with short DNA fragments of 123 bp showed that the protein is capable of increasing DNA flexibility. The 123-bp DNA formed closed circular monomers efficiently in its presence, similar to that in an earlier study on maize HMG. Additionally, our results show for the first time that the basic N-terminal domain enhances the affinity of the plant HMGB1 protein for 4H DNA, while the acidic C-terminal domain has the converse effects.
12591251	Upland rice was grown in the kharif season (June-September) under irrigated condition in New Delhi, India (28 degree 40'N and 77 degree 12'E) to monitor CH4 and N2O emission, as influenced by fertilizer urea, ammonium sulphate and potassium nitrate alone (at 120 kg ha-1) and mixed with dicyandiamide (DCD), added at 10% of applied N. The experimental soil was a typic ustochrept (Inceptisol), clay loam, in which rice (Oryza sativa L., var. Pusa-169, duration: 120-125 days) was grown and CH4 and N2O was monitored for 105 days by closed chamber method, starting from the 5 days and 1 day after transplanting, respectively. Methane fluxes had a considerable temporal variation (CV=52-77%) and ranged from 0.05 (ammonium sulphate) to 3.77 mg m-2 h-1 (urea). There was a significant increase in the CH4 emission on the application of fertilizers while addition of DCD with fertilizers reduced emissions. Total CH4 emission (105 days) ranged from 24.5 to 37.2 kg ha-1. Nitrous oxide fluxes were much lower than CH4 fluxes and had ranged from 0.18 to 100.5 g m-2 h-1 with very high temporal variation (CV=69-143%). Total seasonal N2O emission from different treatments ranged from 0.037 to 0.186 kg ha-1 which was a N loss of 0.10-0.12% of applied N. All the fertilizers significantly increased seasonal N2O emission while application of DCD reduced N2O emissions significantly in the range of 10-53%.
12591268	A comparison of the plant growth retardant activity of the chlamydocin analogues, compound 1, six derivatives from 1 and 2, and two synthetic analogues revealed that there are two types of retardant in chlamydocin analogues. One, for example in compound 1, requires an oxygen atom at C-8 of the 2-aminodecanoic acid moiety to show retardant activity. The other, for example in compound 8, requires no oxygen atom at C-8 but requires a specific alkyl group chain length for activity. To determine the differences in mode of action of both types of retardant, rice seedlings were separately treated with compounds 1 and 8, and after appearance of dwarfism, their endogenous ABA and GA(1) levels were determined and compared to those of the control. Treatment with 1 (10 nmol/plant) increased ABA levels 4 times higher than that of the control and decreased GA(1) levels to 20% of that of the control. Treatment with 8 (30 nmol/plant) did not affect the ABA level but decreased GA(1) content to 5% of that of the control.
12591613	We identified two new members of the GRAS gene family from rice, CIGR1 and CIGR2, which are rapidly induced upon N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor perception. The predicated proteins encoded by CIGR1 and CIGR2 possess significant sequence similarity with previously identified members of the GRAS family, such as Arabidopsis SCARECROW, GAI, RGA, tomato Lateral suppressor, and rice SLR1, all of which have VHIID regions, likely to play a role in cellular signaling. Fusions of CIGR1 and CIGR2 with Green Fluorescent Protein were detected exclusively in the nuclei of onion epidermal cells. The expression of CIGR1 and CIGR2 was dependent on the structure of N-acetylchitooligosaccharides, which parallels the structural specificity for chitin binding to the plasma membrane-localized chitin-binding protein, and independent of de novo protein synthesis. Co-cultivation of rice cells with rice blast fungus strongly induced the expression of CIGR1 and CIGR2, whereas inoculation of suspension cells with phytopathogenic bacteria did not. We hypothesize that CIGR1 and CIGR2 act as transcriptional regulators in the early events of the elicitor-induced defense response in rice.
12594542	Main cereals such as rice, wheat, barley, and corn belong to the family Gramineae and have similar cell-wall composition. Since cereal cell walls are a good source of dietary fibre, meeting one-half of the daily requirement of 30 g of dietary fibre can be achieved by the regular consumption of cereals. Many studies have dealt with the isolation of feruloylated oligosaccharides from Gramineae by treatment with polysaccharide hydrolysing enzymes. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the production of feruloylated oligosaccharides from insoluble wheat flour arabinoxylan (WFAX) by treatment with a Thermoascus aurantiacus family 10 endoxylanase (XYLI) and the evaluation of their antioxidant activity. The main feruloylated oligosaccharide was purified by anion-exchange and size-exclusion chromatography (SEC). Alkaline saponification and acid hydrolysis were used for product identification. Evaluation of antioxidant activity was performed by the 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) reduction assay and the inhibition of copper-mediated oxidation of low density lipoprotein (LDL). The optimal conditions for WFAX hydrolysis using the XYLI have been determined to be 100 U g(-1) of WFAX for 30 min at 50 degrees C. Saponification of the oligosaccharide released FA and oligosaccharide. The released oligosaccharide consisted of arabinose and xylose in a molar ratio of 1:3 and these results support the identity of the feruloylated oligosaccharide as feruloyl arabinoxylotrisaccharide (FAX(3)). FAX(3) showed profound antioxidant activity in 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) reduction assay exhibiting an antiradical efficiency of 0.035 (x 10(-3)) and inhibited the copper-mediated oxidation of human low density lipoprotein (LDL) in a dose-dependent manner with almost complete inhibition at 32 microM. A feruloylated oligosaccharide (FAX3) was isolated from WFAX after enzymatic treatment with XYLI. We verified antioxidant activity of FAX(3) which may be important in preventing or reducing the progression of atherosclerosis by inhibiting the peroxidation of lipoproteins.
12595120	The fungus, Magnaporthe grisea (Rice blast fungus) is a major agricultural problem affecting rice and related food crops. The way that the fungus invades the host plant and propagates itself is a very important scientific problem and recent advances in research into the genetic basis of these processes can be used to build a simple partial model using hybrid computational modelling techniques. The possible potential benefits of doing this include the use of computer simulation and automated analysis through techniques such as model checking to understand the complex behaviour of such systems. The example is a metaphor for the process of trying to integrate and understand much of the vast amounts of genomic and other data that is being produced in current molecular biology research.
12595138	Knowledge on plant genomes has progressed during the past few years. Two plant genomes, those of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, have been sequenced. Our present knowledge of synteny also indicates that, despite plasticity contributing to the diversity of the plant genomes, the organization of genes is conserved within large sections of chromosomes. In parallel, novel plant transformation systems have been proposed, notably with regard to plastid transformation and the removal of selectable marker genes in transgenic plants. Furthermore, a number of recent works considerably widen the potential of plant biotechnology.
12595985	This study was conducted to identify and map the quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling Al tolerance in rice using molecular markers. A population of 171 F(6) recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from the cross of Oryza sativa (IR64), the Al susceptible parent, and Oryza rufipogon, the Al tolerant parent, was evaluated for Al tolerance using a nutrient solution with and without 40 ppm of active Al(+3). A genetic map, consisting of 151 molecular markers covering 1,755 cM with an average distance of 11.6 cM between loci, was constructed. Nine QTLs were dentified including one for root length under non-stress conditions (CRL), three for root length under Al stress (SRL) and five for relative root length (RRL). O. rufipogon contributed favorable alleles for each of the five QTLs for RRL, which is a primary parameter for Al tolerance, and individually they explained 9.0-24.9% of the phenotypic variation. Epistatic analysis revealed that CRL was conditioned by an epistatic effect, whereas SRL and RRL were controlled by additive effects. Comparative genetic analysis showed that QTLs for RRL, which mapped on chromosomes 1 and 9, appear to be consistent among different rice populations. Interestingly, a major QTL for RRL, which explained 24.9% of the phenotypic variation, was found on chromosome 3 of rice, which is conserved across cereal species. These results indicate the possibilities to use marker-assisted selection and pyramiding QTLs for enhancing Al tolerance in rice. Positional cloning of such QTLs introgressed from O. rufipogon will provide a better understanding of the Al tolerance mechanism in rice and the evolutionary genetics of plant adaptation to acid-soil conditions across cereal species.
12595990	Salt stress adversely affects the growth of rice plants. To understand the molecular basis of salt-stress response, four subtracted cDNA libraries were constructed employing specific NaCl-stressed tissues from salt-tolerant (CSR 27 and Pokkali) and salt-sensitive (Pusa basmati 1) rice cultivars. An efficient PCR-based cDNA subtraction method was employed for the isolation of the salt-stress responsive cDNA clones. In all, 1,266 cDNA clones were isolated in the course of this study, out of which 85 clones were end-sequenced. Database search of the sequenced clones showed that 22 clones were homologous to genes that have earlier been implicated in stress response, 34 clones were novel with respect to their function and six clones showed no homology to sequences in any of the public database. Northern analysis showed that the transcript expression pattern of selected clones was variable amongst the cultivars tested with respect to stress-regulation.
12595994	Source, sink, and translocation capacity of assimilates play important roles during the formation of grain yield. The present study was conducted to characterize the genetic bases of traits representing source, sink and transport tissue, and their relationships with yield traits in rice, by analyzing QTLs for these traits and various ratios among them. The genetic materials were a recombinant inbred population derived from a cross between two indica cultivars Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63, the parents of the most-widely grown hybrid rice in China. Using a linkage map that covers a total of 1,796 cM based on 221 molecular marker loci, a total of 81 QTLs were identified for the 15 traits studied (three leaf areas as the source, total spikelets per panicle as the sink, the number of large vascular bundles in the stem as transport tissue, three source to sink ratios, three transport tissue to source ratios, one transport tissue to sink ratio and three yield traits). The amount of variation explained by individual QTLs ranged from 1.12% to 24.14%. Five QTLs were identified to show interaction effects with the environment, which explained from 3.19% to 9.15% of the variation. The results showed that close linkage or pleiotropy is the genetic basis for the correlations of grain yield traits with source, sink, transport tissue and the various ratios among them. Of the 25 QTLs identified for source-sink-transport tissue trait, and 43 for various ratios, 8 and 22 QTLs, respectively, were mapped to the similar genomic blocks harboring QTLs for yield traits, especially for grain weight. Co-location of QTLs for yield traits with those for ratios among source, sink and transport tissue may provide a genetic explanation for the physiological expression of yield traits, and also suggest that improvement in ratios among source, sink and transport tissue may result in improvement in yield potential.
12595998	Bacterial blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae is a devastating disease in rice worldwide. The resistance gene Xa4 has been widely used in breeding programs and played an important role in protecting rice from this disease. Using 642 highly susceptible individuals and a random sample of 255 individuals from an F(2) population developed from a cross between IRBB4 and IR24, the Xa4 gene was genetically mapped to a region less than 1 cM. A contig map was constructed for the Xa4 region consisting of six non-redundant bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones and spanning approximately 500 kb in length. Analysis of recombination events in the Xa4 region located the gene locus to one BAC, 3H8. Assay of the recombinants using the subclones of 3H8 in combination with sequence analysis further narrowed the Xa4 locus down to a 47-kb fragment.
12596505	The effects of supplementary traditional food on pregnant women were investigated in a clinical trial in Islamshahr, a suburban area 35 km southwest of Tehran. The study comprised 53 healthy mothers who were neither addicts nor on medication and were free from genetic disorders. The pregnant mothers' health was evaluated by their weight gain, that of lactating mothers by breast milk adequacy, and that of newborns by their weight at birth. The experimental group received traditional food (rice-milk porridge, lentils, pottage, cheese, yogurt, eggs, and milk with bread), supplying an extra 400 kcal energy and 15 g protein from the fourth month of pregnancy until childbirth. All subjects were weighed monthly. To ascertain breast milk sufficiency, the duration of exclusive breastfeeding and the growth trend of infants were surveyed. The study showed the weight gain in the experimental and control groups to be 11.0 +/- 2.9 and 8.5 +/- 3 kg respectively; the difference was 29.4% and statistically significant (p < 0.02). The confounding variables (energy and protein intake, age, height, BMI, age at first pregnancy, parity, last pregnancy spacing, number of children, number of miscarriages, duration of residence in the area, family size, education, housing, occupation of the mother or her husband) did not reveal any significant differences. Maternal weight gain was higher in the experimental compared to the control group. Birth weights in experimental and control groups were 3.33 +/- 0.4 and 3.08 +/- 0.3 kg, respectively. This difference, which amounts to 8.1%, was statistically significant (p < 0.05). While the two groups of newborns had equal breastfeeding duration, heights and weights of newborns were significantly higher in the experimental group. This was also confirmed when compared to the NCHS figures.
12596742	After his accession Jahangir passed twelve orders (dastur-ul-amal). According to the tenth order hospitals were to be built in all the big cities and physicians were to be appointed and expenditure for this purpose were to be made from "Khalisa" establishment. The term 'Khalisa' has been translated as royal treasury by scholars. But according to the Encyclopaedia of Islam the term means crown land. Jahangir's yearly income from his crown-land was fifty crores of rupees. So he in all probability ordered money to be spent from his personal fund. According to the fifth order, Jahangir forbade manufacture and sale of dar-bahara (rice-spirit). It has been suggested that probably the right term was 'dil-bahara' (exhilarating drink) because Jahanir the emperor would know title of rice-spirit a cheap drink meant for poor people. But in the history of the fourth year of his reign Jahangir says that he forbade the sale of bhang and buza (rice-spirit) in the market as those were injurious for health and he gave stringent orders for the abolition of gambling. So Jahangir was anxious for the physical and moral health of his subjects.
12596847	The volatiles released from elicitor (copper chloride, jasmonic acid, UV, L-methionine and chitosan oligomer)-treated and rice blast fungus-inoculated rice leaves were collected by the solid-phase microextraction technique and analyzed by GC-MS. (Z)-3-Hexen-1-ol, monoterpenes, methyl salicylate, and sesquiterpenes were identified as elicitor-induced volatiles by a comparison of their GC retention times and mass spectra with those of authentic compounds. The different elicitors resulted in some qualitative and quantitative differences in the production of volatiles. Monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes were identified as the rice blast fungus-induced volatiles.
12596875	The gene encoding rice allene oxide synthase, OsAOS, was intronless and had nucleotide sequences with the high GC content of 67%. Deduced amino acid sequences had very high similarity with other AOS proteins, in particular 74% similarity to barley, characterized by the conserved motifs of P450 cytochrome of the CYP74A family. Purified recombinant rice AOS protein expressed in Escherichia coli converted 13-hydroperoxylinolenic acid to allene oxide. Several restriction enzyme digestions and Southern analysis showed that OsAOS was likely to have two copies in its genome. The basal level of OsAOS expression was detected in various tissues and the transcription level was increased by jasmonate treatment.
12596877	A rice gene, OsRALyase1, encoding a product similar to wheat ribosomal RNA apurinic site specific lyase (RALyase), was isolated and expressed in vitro. An open reading frame of the gene predicted a protein of 476 amino acid residues with 75% identity to RALyase and contained an F-box-like motif in its amino terminal region. The rice gene product expressed in a wheat-germ protein expression system had the same characteristics as its wheat counterpart, cleaving a specific depurinated site of the 28S rRNA sarcin-ricin domain.
12597026	Isolation of cyanobacteria was attempted from herbicide applied rice soils. The predominant genera were Westiellopsis followed by Anabaena, Nostoc and Oscillatoria. The herbicide tolerance was further tested by growing the cyanobacterial cultures in BG-11 medium supplemented with varying concentrations of the commonly used rice herbicide, viz butachlor under in vitro condition. The chlorophyll-a, phycobiliproteins and ammonia excretion were assessed at periodic intervals. Westiellopsis showed the maximum tolerance followed by Anabaena, Nostoc and Oscillatoria.
12597276	A total of 2414 new di-, tri- and tetra-nucleotide non-redundant SSR primer pairs, representing 2240 unique marker loci, have been developed and experimentally validated for rice (Oryza sativa L.). Duplicate primer pairs are reported for 7% (174) of the loci. The majority (92%) of primer pairs were developed in regions flanking perfect repeats > or = 24 bp in length. Using electronic PCR (e-PCR) to align primer pairs against 3284 publicly sequenced rice BAC and PAC clones (representing about 83% of the total rice genome), 65% of the SSR markers hit a BAC or PAC clone containing at least one genetically mapped marker and could be mapped by proxy. Additional information based on genetic mapping and "nearest marker" information provided the basis for locating a total of 1825 (81%) of the newly designed markers along rice chromosomes. Fifty-six SSR markers (2.8%) hit BAC clones on two or more different chromosomes and appeared to be multiple copy. The largest proportion of SSRs in this data set correspond to poly(GA) motifs (36%), followed by poly(AT) (15%) and poly(CCG) (8%) motifs. AT-rich microsatellites had the longest average repeat tracts, while GC-rich motifs were the shortest. In combination with the pool of 500 previously mapped SSR markers, this release makes available a total of 2740 experimentally confirmed SSR markers for rice, or approximately one SSR every 157 kb.
12597280
12597560	Anabaena oryzae ARM 570 was examined for its growth (chlorophyll and protein), heterocyst frequency, nitrogenase (acetylene reduction) activity, ammonia excretion, and glutamine synthetase and nitrate reductase in response to two levels of urea-N vis-à-vis N2-N. Growth of cyanobacterium increased with duration of incubation. Reduction in heterocyst frequency (40%) was observed at 30 ppm of urea-N, whereas at 60 ppm of urea-N, filaments were completely devoid of heterocysts and no nitrogenase activity was observed. Maximum excretion of ammonia occurred at 30 ppm of urea-N, which was concomitant with minimum glutamine synthetase activity. These results suggested that A. oryzae could be effectively utilized in cyanobacterial biofertilizer programme even in the presence of combined nitrogen, for improving N-budget in rice cultivation.
12597868	For the first time, a gene function can be knocked out by homologous recombination in a monocot plant species. Fertile rice plants with the desired change in their genome can be obtained reproducibly. Although the absolute frequency of targeting does not exceed that of previous experiments in dicots, the use of a negative selectable marker at both extremities of the targeting construct reduces the amount of screening and excludes ectopic targeting, an unwanted by-product of gene targeting.
12597876	The genome sequence of Arabidopsis is complete and the genomes of plants representing legumes (Medicago truncatula) and grasses (rice) will soon follow. The rate at which new genes have been discovered has far outstripped the pace at which their function is determined. The greatest hurdle that plant biologists face in assigning gene function and in crop improvement is the lack of efficient and robust technologies to generate gene replacements or targeted gene knockouts. Many of the factors underlying these events remain to be elucidated. This review addresses the current status of plant gene targeting and what is known about the associated plant DNA repair mechanisms.
12598568	A major high molecular weight protein (HMP) in the cytoskeletal fraction from pea has been purified. A combination of chromatographic techniques and protease fragment analysis also facilitated the isolation of the encoding cDNA, disclosing the sequence of the complete open reading frame. The protein possesses four complete N-terminal Staphylococcal nuclease (SNc) domains, a central Tudor domain and a partial SNc domain at the C-terminus, which may act as a coiled-coil cytoskeleton interaction motif. Cell fractionation studies showed that the protein was abundant in the cytoskeleton fraction in dark-grown pea seedlings, but essentially was absent from the nucleus. Gel filtration column chromatography indicated that the native protein exists as a dimer, while isoelectric focusing suggested that there were at least four HMP isotypes. The protein co-eluted with ribosomes from a heparin affinity column in vitro, consistent with ribosome/polysome interactions in vivo. Significantly, sequence analysis of the C-terminal SNc motif may accurately predict nuclear versus cytoplasmic localization resulting in potentially very different functional roles for this protein family in different organisms. An antibody to HMP from peas was also raised and an HMP with a similar molecular mass was detected in the cytoskeleton fractions and to a lesser extent in the nuclear fraction (250 g pellet) from rice and wheat seedlings.
12598580	Genes encoding pathogenesis-related (PR-) proteins isolated from a cDNA library of Fusarium graminearum-infected wheat spikes of scab-resistant cultivar 'Sumai-3' were transformed into susceptible spring wheat, 'Bobwhite' using a biolistic transformation protocol, with the goal of enhancing levels of resistance against scab. Twenty-four putative transgenic lines expressing either a single PR-protein gene or combinations thereof were regenerated. Transgene expression in a majority of these lines (20) was completely silenced in the T(1) or T(2) generations. Four transgenic wheat lines showed stable inheritance and expression of either a single transgene or transgene combinations up to four generations. One line co-expressing a chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase gene combination, when bioassayed against scab showed a delay in the spread of the infection (type II resistance) under greenhouse conditions. This line and a second transgenic line expressing a rice thaumatin-like protein gene (tlp) which had moderate resistance to scab in previous greenhouse trials, along with susceptible and resistance checks were evaluated for resistance to scab under field conditions. None of the transgenic lines had resistance to scab in the field under conditions of strong pathogen, suggesting these plants lacked effective resistance to initial infection (type I resistance) under these conditions. As far as is known, this is the first report of field evaluation of transgenic wheat expressing genes for PR-proteins against disease resistance.
12599407	To observe the effects of rice flavoids (RF) on learning and memory functions. The step down test and the step through test in mice were used. RF could significantly improve the learning and memory ability in many dementia models, such as the impairment of acquisition of memory mice induced by M-anticholinergic agents like anisodine, the impairment of consolidation of memory in mice induced by protein biosynthesis inhibitors like actidione, the impairment of retrieval of memory in mice induced by central neuron system(CNS) depressants like ethanol, mice after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. It is suggested that RF can markedly enhance the learning and memory ability, and that is significant to prevent and cure the senile dementia.
12600038	In order to evaluate arsenic accumulative intake level of residents living in an area with arsenic pollution in the air, the level of arsenic accumulative intake is measured by calculating residents' accumulative rice consumption and the measurement of the level via inhalation. The results show that ignoring the non-polluted time periods, the highest arsenic accumulative intake level (AAIL) appears in residents aged 50 and above who have the highest level of air inhalation and rice consumption in comparison with young residents after 32 years exposure, and their AAIL detected via inhalation are 591.4 mg for female and 612.9 for male respectively. There is 3488.74 mg arsenic obtained by their daily diet. Total AAIL are 4080.14 mg for female and 4101.66 mg for male respectively, being about 80% of estimation level reflected by daily exposure level multiplied by total exposure time (day).
12601077	The technique of proteome analysis with two-dimensional PAGE has the power to monitor global changes that occur in the protein expression of tissues and organisms and/or expression that occurs under stresses. In this study, the catalogues of the rice proteome were constructed, and a functional characterization of some of these proteins was examined. Proteins extracted from tissues of rice and proteins extracted from rice under various kinds of stress were separated by two-dimensional PAGE. An image analyzer was used to reveal a total of 10,589 protein spots on 10 kinds of two-dimensional PAGE gels stained by Coomassie Brilliant Blue. The separated proteins were electroblotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane, and the N-terminal amino acid sequences of 272 of 905 proteins were determined. The internal amino acid sequences of 633 proteins were determined using a protein sequencer or mass spectrometry after enzyme digestion of the proteins. Finally, a data file of rice proteins that included information on amino acid sequences and sequence homologies was constructed. The major proteins involved in the growth and development of rice can be identified using the proteome approach. Some of these proteins, including a calcium-binding protein that turned out to be calreticulin and a gibberellin-binding protein, which is ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase activase in rice, have functions in the signal transduction pathway. The information thus obtained from the rice proteome will be helpful in predicting the function of the unknown proteins and will aid in their molecular cloning.
12601171	Comparative genomic analyses have revealed extensive colinearity in gene orders in distantly related taxa in mammals and grasses, which opened new horizons for evolutionary study. The objective of our study was to assess syntenic relationships of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for disease resistance in cereals by using a model system in which rice and barley were used as the hosts and the blast fungus Pyricularia grisea Sacc. as the pathogen. In total, 12 QTL against three isolates were identified in rice; two had effects on all three isolates, and the other 10 had effects on only one or two of the three isolates. Twelve QTL for blast resistance were identified in barley; one had effect on all three isolates, and the other 11 had effects on only one or two of the three isolates. The observed isolate specificity led to a hypothesis about the durability of quantitative resistance commonly observed in many plant host-pathogen systems. Four pairs of the QTL showed corresponding map positions between rice and barley, two of the four QTL pairs had complete conserved isolate specificity, and another two QTL pairs had partial conserved isolate specificity. Such corresponding locations and conserved specificity suggested a common origin and conserved functionality of the genes underlying the QTL for quantitative resistance and may have utility in gene discovery, understanding the function of the genomes, and identifying the evolutionary forces that structured the organization of the grass genomes.
12602862	Type 2A serine/threonine protein phosphatase (PP2A) plays a variety of regulatory roles in metabolism and signal transduction. Two closely related PP2A catalytic subunit (PP2Ac) genes, OsPP2A-1 and OsPP2A-3, have been isolated from the monocot Oryza sativa. Both genes contain six exons and five introns which intervene at identical locations, suggesting they have descended from a recent duplication event. Their encoded proteins share 97% sequence identity and are highly similar (94-96%) to a PP2Ac subfamily (AtPP2A-1, -2 and -5) identified in Arabidopsis thaliana. Both OsPP2A-1 and OsPP2A-3 are ubiquitously expressed, with the expression levels high in stems and flowers and low in leaves. OsPP2A-1, but not OsPP2A-3, is also highly expressed in roots. Transcript levels of OsPP2A-1 in roots and OsPP2A-3 in stems are elevated at the maturation and young stages, respectively. Drought and high salinity upregulate both genes in leaves, whereas heat stress represses OsPP2A-1 in stems and induces OsPP2A-3 in all organs. These findings indicate that the two PP2Ac genes are subjected to developmental and stress-related regulation. In situ hybridization results show that both transcripts exhibit nearly identical cellular distribution, except in leaves, and are abundant in meristematic tissues including the young leaf blade of stems and the root tip.
12602891	A novel endonuclease, a new member of the RAD2 nuclease family, has been identified from the higher plant, rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare), and designated as OsSEND-1. The open reading frame of the OsSEND-1 cDNA encoded a predicted product of 641 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 69.9 kDa. The encoded protein showed a relatively high degree of sequence homology with the RAD2 nuclease family proteins, especially RAD2 nuclease, but it differed markedly from FEN-1, XPG or HEX1/EXO1. The N- and I-domains in the family were highly conserved in the OsSEND-1 sequence. The protein was much smaller than XPG, but larger than HEX1/EXO1 and FEN-1. The genome sequence was composed of 14 exons, and was localized at the almost terminal region of the short arm of chromosome 8. Northern blotting and in situ hybridization analyses demonstrated preferential expression of OsSEND-1 mRNA in proliferating tissues such as meristem. The mRNA level of OsSEND-1 was induced by UV and DNA-damaging agent such as MMS or H2O2, indicating that OsSEND-1 has some roles in the repair of many types of damaged DNA. The recombinant peptide showed endonuclease activity.
12602892	In the indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) a cDNA was characterized that encoded OsAKT1 homologous to inward-rectifying potassium channels of the AKT/KAT subfamily. Transcript analysis located OsAKT1 predominantly in roots with low abundance in leaves. Cell-specificity of OsAKT expression was analyzed by in situ hybridizations. In roots, strongest signals were localized to the epidermis and the endodermis, whereas lower transcript levels were detected in cells of the vasculature and the cortex. In leaves, expression was detected in xylem parenchyma, phloem, and mesophyll cells. Transcriptional regulation and cell specificity of OsAKT1 during salt stress was compared in rice lines showing different salinity tolerance. In the salt-tolerant, sodium-excluding varieties Pokkali and BK, OsAKT1 transcripts disappeared from the exodermis in plants treated with 150 mM NaCl for 48 h but OsAKT1 transcription was not repressed in these cells in the salt-sensitive, sodium-accumulating variety IR29. Significantly, all lines were able to maintain potassium levels under sodium stress conditions, while sodium concentrations in the leaves of IR29 increased 5-10-fold relative to the sodium concentration in BK or Pokkali. The divergent, line-dependent and salt-dependent, regulation of this channel does not significantly affect potassium homeostasis under salinity stress. Rather, repression in Pokkali/BK and lack of repression in IR29 correlate with the overall tolerance character of these lines.
12602898	The Gns1 gene of rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica) encodes 1,3;1,4-beta glucanase (EC 3.2.1.73), which hydrolyzes 1,3;1,4-beta-glucosidic linkages on 1,3;1,4-beta-glucan, an important component of cell walls in the Poaceae family. RNA and protein gel blot analyses demonstrated that blast disease or dark treatment induced the expression of the Gns1 gene. To assess the function of the Gns1 gene in disease resistance, we characterized transgenic rice plants constitutively expressing the Gns1 gene. The introduced Gns1 gene was driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and its products were found in the apoplast and accumulated in up to 0.1% of total soluble protein in leaves. Although transgenic plants showed stunted growth and impaired root formation, fertility, germination, and coleoptile elongation appeared unaffected compared to non-transgenic control plants, indicating that Gns1 does not play a crucial role in rice germination and coleoptile elongation. When transgenic plants were inoculated with virulent blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), they developed many resistant-type lesions on the inoculated leaf accompanying earlier activation of defense-related genes PR-1 and PBZ1 than in control plants. Transgenic plants spontaneously produced brown specks, similar in appearance to those reported for an initiation type of disease-lesion-mimic mutants, on the third and fourth leaves and occasionally on older leaves without inoculation of pathogens. Expression of the two defense-related genes was drastically increased after the emergence of the lesion-mimic phenotype.
12602929	The effect of consumption of finger millet based diets on hyperglycemia was studied in 6 non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) subjects. All the experimental diets were planned to be isocaloric and also to contain 75 g equivalent of carbohydrate load so that glycemic response could be compared with a 75 g glucose load. The glycemic response to breakfast items compared to that of glucose was determined by comparing the areas under the 2 hr glucose response curve. Consumption of finger millet based diets resulted in significantly lower plasma glucose levels, mean peak rise, and area under curve which might have been due to the higher fiber content of finger millet compared to rice and wheat. The lower glycemic response of whole finger millet based diets may also have been due to the presence of antinutritional factors in whole finger millet flour which are known to reduce starch digestibility and absorption.
12604328	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are evolutionary conserved from unicellular to complex eukaryotic organisms, and constitute one of the major signalling pathways involved in regulating a wide range of cellular activities from growth and development to cell death. MAPKs of rice (Oryza sativa L.), the most important of all food crops and an established monocot plant research model, have seen considerable progress mainly on their identification and characterization during the past one year alone. These studies have provided new information on the response and regulation of rice MAPKs, in particular on their possible role/function in the rice self-defense pathways. It is believed that further work on MAPK cascades in rice will widen our understanding of the MAPK signalling pathways, and may lead to the establishment of a biological model on this critical early signalling event in monocots. In this review, we bring together all the recent developments in rice MAPKs and discuss their significance and future direction in light of the present data and the progress made in dicot model plants.
12604771	The genetic basis of heterosis of an elite rice hybrid was investigated by using an "immortalized F(2)" population produced by randomly permutated intermating of 240 recombinant inbred lines from a cross between the parents of Shanyou 63, the most widely cultivated hybrid in China. Measurements of heterosis for crosses in the immortalized F(2) population were obtained from replicated field trials over 2 years by inter-planting the hybrids with the parental recombinant inbred lines. The analyses were conducted making use of a linkage map comprising 231 segregating molecular marker loci covering the entire rice genome. Heterotic effects were detected at 33 loci for the four traits with modified composite interval mapping. The heterotic loci showed little overlap with quantitative trait loci for trait performance, suggesting that heterosis and trait performance may be conditioned by different sets of loci. Large numbers of digenic interactions were resolved by using two-way ANOVA and confirmed by randomization tests. All kinds of genetic effects, including partial-, full-, and overdominance at single-locus level and all three forms of digenic interactions (additive by additive, additive by dominance, and dominance by dominance), contributed to heterosis in the immortalized F(2) population, indicating that these genetic components were not mutually exclusive in the genetic basis of heterosis. Heterotic effects at the single-locus level, in combination with the marginal advantages of double heterozygotes caused by dominance by dominance interaction at the two-locus level could adequately explain the genetic basis of heterosis in Shanyou 63. These results may help reconcile the century-long debate concerning the genetic basis of heterosis.
12607926	Ion-trap GC/MS/MS was evaluated for the multi-residue determination of pesticides in agricultural products. Matrices were extracted from samples (spinach, carrot, onion and brown rice) with acetone and submitted to gel permeation chromatography, followed by a clean-up step through a graphite carbon cartridge. Thirty-five pesticides were added to either matrix, and analyzed by GC/MS/MS. Detection limits of pesticides by GC/MS/MS was almost the same as those by GC/MS (SIM). Coefficients of variation of peak area in 5 measurements of each pesticide at 0.1 microgram/mL or 0.05 microgram/mL with or without matrices were mostly acceptable, though those of 20 pesticides out of 35 were higher than 10% at a concentration of 0.02 microgram/mL. It was indicated that matrix artifacts, which interfere with GC/MS-Scan analysis, could be eliminated in some cases by using GC/MS/MS.
12607963	A questionnaire survey and oral health examination were conducted in 2000. The subjects were students of dental and dental hygiene schools at Tokyo Medical and Dental University. Subjects totaled 101 (48 males, 53 females), and the average age was 22.0 +/- 3.3. The relationship among eating habits, lifestyles, and oral health status of the students was analyzed. The following results were obtained. 1. Almost half of the students did not eat one of the three main meals; that is, breakfast, lunch, or supper. Most of them skipped breakfast. 2. The students who ate rice (traditional Japanese-style food) for breakfast had less DMFT compared with those who ate other foods, such as bread or noodles, or who did not eat breakfast. 3. The amount of stimulated saliva of the students who ate rice for breakfast was greater than that of others. 4. The oral health behavior and nutrition balance of the students who ate rice for breakfast was better than that of others. 5. The students' eating habits were related to their living styles, such as living alone or with the family. From these results, it was suggested that educational emphasis on nutrition balance and eating habits is needed for dental students and dental hygiene students, because in the future they must advise patients on good oral health and general health through good eating habits, as dental professionals.
12609030	Brassinolide (BL), considered to be the most important brassinosteroid (BR) and playing pivotal roles in the hormonal regulation of plant growth and development, was found to induce disease resistance in plants. To study the potentialities of BL activity on stress responding systems, we analyzed its ability to induce disease resistance in tobacco and rice plants. Wild-type tobacco treated with BL exhibited enhanced resistance to the viral pathogen tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci (Pst), and the fungal pathogen Oidium sp. The measurement of salicylic acid (SA) in wild-type plants treated with BL and the pathogen infection assays using NahG transgenic plants indicate that BL-induced resistance does not require SA biosynthesis. BL treatment did not induce either acidic or basic pathogenesis-related (PR) gene expression, suggesting that BL-induced resistance is distinct from systemic acquired resistance (SAR) and wound-inducible disease resistance. Analysis using brassinazole 2001, a specific inhibitor for BR biosynthesis, and the measurement of BRs in TMV-infected tobacco leaves indicate that steroid hormone-mediated disease resistance (BDR) plays part in defense response in tobacco. Simultaneous activation of SAR and BDR by SAR inducers and BL, respectively, exhibited additive protective effects against TMV and Pst, indicating that there is no cross-talk between SAR- and BDR-signaling pathway downstream of BL. In addition to the enhanced resistance to a broad range of diseases in tobacco, BL induced resistance in rice to rice blast and bacterial blight diseases caused by Magnaporthe grisea and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, respectively. Our data suggest that BDR functions in the innate immunity system of higher plants including dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous species.
12609047	The transcription factors DREBs/CBFs specifically interact with the dehydration-responsive element/C-repeat (DRE/CRT) cis-acting element (core motif: G/ACCGAC) and control the expression of many stress-inducible genes in Arabidopsis. In rice, we isolated five cDNAs for DREB homologs: OsDREB1A, OsDREB1B, OsDREB1C, OsDREB1D, and OsDREB2A. Expression of OsDREB1A and OsDREB1B was induced by cold, whereas expression of OsDREB2A was induced by dehydration and high-salt stresses. The OsDREB1A and OsDREB2A proteins specifically bound to DRE and activated the transcription of the GUS reporter gene driven by DRE in rice protoplasts. Over-expression of OsDREB1A in transgenic Arabidopsis induced over-expression of target stress-inducible genes of Arabidopsis DREB1A resulting in plants with higher tolerance to drought, high-salt, and freezing stresses. This indicated that OsDREB1A has functional similarity to DREB1A. However, in microarray and RNA blot analyses, some stress-inducible target genes of the DREB1A proteins that have only ACCGAC as DRE were not over-expressed in the OsDREB1A transgenic Arabidopsis. The OsDREB1A protein bound to GCCGAC more preferentially than to ACCGAC whereas the DREB1A proteins bound to both GCCGAC and ACCGAC efficiently. The structures of DREB1-type ERF/AP2 domains in monocots are closely related to each other as compared with that in the dicots. OsDREB1A is potentially useful for producing transgenic monocots that are tolerant to drought, high-salt, and/or cold stresses.
12609740	Recent studies have suggested that mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldehyde:NAD(P)(+) oxidoreductase, EC 1.2.1.3) (ALDH2) plays essential roles in pollen development in plants. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) ALDH2 is encoded by at least two ALDH2 genes, one of which (ALDH2a) was previously identified. In this study, to understand the roles of ALDH2 in rice, we isolated and characterized a cDNA clone encoding another rice ALDH2 (ALDH2b). An in vitro ALDH assay indicated that ALDH2b possesses an NAD(+)-linked activity for oxidation of acetaldehyde, glycolaldehyde and propionaldehyde. Northern blot and immunoblot analyses revealed that ALDH2b was constitutively present in all the organs examined, whereas ALDH2a was expressed in leaves of dark-grown seedlings and panicles. By RFLP linkage mapping, the ALDH2a and ALDH2b genes were mapped to the long arm of chromosome 2 and the short arm of chromosome 6, respectively. We suggest that the rice ALDH2a and ALDH2b genes are orthologues of maize mitochondrial ALDH genes, rf2b and rf2a, respectively.
12610225	To characterize ammonium transport pathways in rice, two cDNAs with high homology to MEP/AMT2-type ammonium transporters, OsAMT2;1 and OsAMT3;1, were isolated. Expression of OsAMT2;1 in an ammonium-uptake-defective yeast mutant showed that this gene encodes functional ammonium transporters. OsAMT2;1 was constitutively expressed in both roots and shoots irrespective of the supply of inorganic nitrogen to the medium, whereas OsAMT3;1 expression was relatively weak. A database search with the amino acid sequence of OsAMT2;1 showed that there are 10 putative OsAMT genes in rice, i.e. three each for OsAMT1, OsAMT2 and OsAMT3, respectively, and one for OsAMT4.
12610539	The last decade provided the plant science community with the complete genome sequence of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, tools to investigate the function of potentially every plant gene, methods to dissect virtually any aspect of the plant life cycle, and a wealth of information on gene expression and protein function. Focusing on Arabidopsis as a model system has led to an integration of the plant sciences that triggered the development of new technologies and concepts benefiting plant research in general. These enormous changes led to an unprecedented increase in our understanding of the genetic basis and molecular mechanisms of developmental, physiological and biochemical processes, some of which will be discussed in this article.
12610701	We investigated the effect of humic acid and solution pH on the uptake of the radionuclides, (83)Rb, (137)Cs, (54)Mn, (65)Zn, (88)Y, (102)Rh, and (75)Se in rice plants by the multitracer technique. The addition of humic acid to a culture medium containing SiO(2) increased the uptake of Mn and Zn at pH 4.3, whereas their uptake was decreased at pH 5.3. Humic acid depressed the uptake of Y at both pHs. The uptake of Se, which does not interact with humic acid, was not affected by its presence. These results suggest that uptake of the radionuclides by the rice plant is regulated by the affinity of radioactive nuclides for humic acid, as well as by the soil solution's pH.
12612147	Apolipoprotein (apo)E-deficient mice were used to study the antiatherogenic effect of black rice pigment fraction (BRF) and the possible mechanisms by which it inhibits atherogenesis. The apoE-deficient mice (n = 45) were randomly divided into three groups and received AIN-93G diet (positive group), AIN-93G with 5 g of black rice pigment fraction/100 g (BRF group) and AIN-93G with 5 g of white rice outer layer fraction/100 g (WRF group) for 16 wk. C57BL/6J mice (n = 15) received AIN-93G and were used as a control group. Blood samples were collected for measurement of lipid concentration, antioxidized LDL antibody and nitric oxide concentration. Livers were extracted for determination of cholesterol concentrations, and aortas were used to determine cholesterol concentrations and inducible nitric oxide synthase protein and mRNA expression. Hearts were used to assess atherosclerotic plaque formation. The apoE-deficient mice fed the black rice pigment fraction diet had 48% (P < 0.01) less atherosclerotic lesion area compared with apoE-deficient mice fed only the AIN-93G diet and 46% (P < 0.01) less lesion area compared with mice fed the white rice outer layer fraction diet. This observation corresponded with significantly (P < 0.05) lower total serum cholesterol, lower liver and aorta cholesterol (P < 0.01) and higher HDL cholesterol (P < 0.05) concentrations and lower (P < 0.05) antioxidized LDL antibody titer in apoE-deficient mice fed the black rice pigment fraction diet compared with positive and WRF groups. Notwithstanding this, mice fed the black rice pigment fraction diet also had lower CD4(+) T lymphocyte expression (P < 0.05) and weaker inducible nitric oxide synthase expression (P < 0.05) compared with mice fed the AIN-93G diet and the white rice outer layer fraction diet, respectively. We concluded that the inhibition of atherosclerotic lesions of the black rice pigment fraction is attributed to the improvement in cholesterol accumulation and reduction in oxidative stress and inflammation.
12612170	Urinary calcium excretion is strongly related to net renal acid excretion. The catabolism of dietary protein generates ammonium ion and sulfates from sulfur-containing amino acids. Bone citrate and carbonate are mobilized to neutralize these acids, so urinary calcium increases when dietary protein increases. Common plant proteins such as soy, corn, wheat and rice have similar total S per g of protein as eggs, milk and muscle from meat, poultry and fish. Therefore increasing intake of purified proteins from either animal or plant sources similarly increases urinary calcium. The effects of a protein on urinary calcium and bone metabolism are modified by other nutrients found in that protein food source. For example, the high amount of calcium in milk compensates for urinary calcium losses generated by milk protein. Similarly, the high potassium levels of plant protein foods, such as legumes and grains, will decrease urinary calcium. The hypocalciuric effect of the high phosphate associated with the amino acids of meat at least partially offsets the hypercalciuric effect of the protein. Other food and dietary constituents such as vitamin D, isoflavones in soy, caffeine and added salt also have effects on bone health. Many of these other components are considered in the potential renal acid load of a food or diet, which predicts its effect on urinary acid and thus calcium. "Excess" dietary protein from either animal or plant proteins may be detrimental to bone health, but its effect will be modified by other nutrients in the food and total diet.
12612805	We investigated a DNA fragment and its flanking region deleted in the spontaneous Pi-a virulent mutant of Magnaporthe grisea Ina168. A new transposon-like sequence was identified from a region adjacent to the deleted fragment and was named Occan. Occan contained a 2,259-bp ORF interrupted by one 63-bp intron and had both a TA dinucleotide and 77 bp of perfect inverted repeats at both termini, without direct repeats. These features indicated that Occan is a member of the Fot1 family. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the expression of the putative transposase and the presence of an intron. Southern analysis of pulse-field gel electrophoresis-separated chromosomes indicated that Occan was dispersed in all chromosomes of the rice pathogen, Ina168. Copy numbers of Occan were also preserved in a host-specific manner amongst M. grisea isolates. In particular, rice pathogens contained a large number of the element inserted into their genome. Phylogenetic analysis with other known members of the Fot1 family revealed that Occan was dissimilar to any other known elements and it is thus proposed that Occan be separated to a new subfamily.
12612829	Numerous miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are present in the rice genome but their transposition mechanisms are unknown. In this report, we present evidence that two novel MITE families may have arisen from Mutator-related transposable elements and thus may use a transposition mechanism similar to that of Mutator elements. Two families of novel MITEs, namely, MDM-1 and MDM-2, were identified by searching for MITEs nested with Kiddo, a previously identified MITE family. MDM-1 and MDM-2 bear hallmarks of Mutator elements, such as long terminal inverted repeats (LTIRs), 9-bp target-site duplications (TSDs), and putative transposase binding sites. Strikingly, the MDM-1 family has a 9-bp terminus identical to that of a rice Mutator-like element (MULE-9) and the MDM-2 family has an 8-bp terminus identical to that of the maize autonomous Mutator element MuDR. A putative transposase homologous to MURA protein is identified for the MDM-2 family. Thus, these two novel MITE families, with a total copy number of several hundred in rice, are designated Mutator-derived MITEs (MDMs). Interestingly, sequence decay analysis of MDM families revealed a number of insertion site duplications (ISDs) in the alignment gaps, and widespread historical nesting events are proposed to account for the existence of these ISDs. In addition to its value for discovering new MITEs, the nesting analysis approach used in this study simultaneously identifies MITE insertion polymorphisms.
12615946	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play an important role in mediating stress responses in eukaryotic organisms. However, little is known about the role of MAPKs in modulating the interaction of defense pathways activated by biotic and abiotic factors. In this study, we have isolated and functionally characterized a stress-responsive MAPK gene (OsMAPK5) from rice. OsMAPK5 is a single-copy gene but can generate at least two differentially spliced transcripts. The OsMAPK5 gene, its protein, and kinase activity were inducible by abscisic acid as well as various biotic (pathogen infection) and abiotic (wounding, drought, salt, and cold) stresses. To determine its biological function, we generated and analyzed transgenic rice plants with overexpression (using the 35S promoter of Cauliflower mosaic virus) or suppression (using double-stranded RNA interference [dsRNAi]) of OsMAPK5. Interestingly, suppression of OsMAPK5 expression and its kinase activity resulted in the constitutive expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes such as PR1 and PR10 in the dsRNAi transgenic plants and significantly enhanced resistance to fungal (Magnaporthe grisea) and bacterial (Burkholderia glumae) pathogens. However, these same dsRNAi lines had significant reductions in drought, salt, and cold tolerance. By contrast, overexpression lines exhibited increased OsMAPK5 kinase activity and increased tolerance to drought, salt, and cold stresses. These results strongly suggest that OsMAPK5 can positively regulate drought, salt, and cold tolerance and negatively modulate PR gene expression and broad-spectrum disease resistance.
12617320	Agricultural practices such as harvesting of crops cause the pathogens to disseminate in abundance and may cause diseases, like skin and respiratory allergies in an epidemic form. Also the farm workers were likely to be exposed repeatedly to high doses of fungal spore allergens from crop harvesting operations. At Srikakulam, located in North Coastal Andhra Pradesh, India, the major crops grown include rice and sugarcane. As part of a major study on the airspora of Srikakulam the effect of harvesting of these two crops on aerial spore concentrations was studied through rotorod trappings. The results showed an enormous increase in the spore load not only of the fungi pathogenic to the crop but also saprophytic fungi while the crop was harvested. The increase in the pathogenic fungal spores was large as evidenced by the increase of the rice crop pathogens as Trichoconis padwickii, Ustilaginoidea virens, Cochilobolus oryzae etc.
12618050	Biofiltration is the most commonly used biological gas treatment technology and is extensively used for the treatment of polluted air with gas flow rates of up to 2 x 10(5) m(3)/h. It involves a filter bed of organic matter serving both as carrier for microorganisms and as nutrient supplier. Polluted gas passes through the filter bed and is cleaned by biological activity. Biofiltration is not being developed in Latin America as in the USA, Canada or Europe; the main reason probably being the absence of specific technology and of potential organic carriers locally available. Five different agriculture by-products available in Latin America: peanut shells, rice husk, coconut shells, cane bagasse and maize stubble, were chemically, physically and structurally characterized for their potential use as biofilter carrier. It was found that peanut shells could be used as biofilter carrier and therefore would have potential biological application.
12618411	Stowaway is a superfamily of miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) that is widespread and abundant in plant genomes. Like other MITEs, however, its origin and mode of amplification are poorly understood. Several lines of evidence point to plant mariner-like elements (MLEs) as the autonomous partners of the nonautonomous Stowaway MITEs. To better understand this relationship, we have taken advantage of the nearly complete genome sequences of two rice subspecies to generate the first inventory of virtually all MLEs and Stowaway families coexisting in a single plant species. Thirty-four different MLEs were found to group into three major clades and 25 families. More than 22,000 Stowaway MITEs were identified and classified into 36 families. On the basis of detailed sequence comparisons, MLEs were confirmed to be the best candidate autonomous elements for Stowaway MITEs. Surprisingly, however, sequence similarity between MLE and Stowaway families was restricted to the terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) and, in a few cases, to adjacent subterminal sequences. These data suggest a model whereby most of the Stowaway MITEs in rice were cross-mobilized by MLE transposases encoded by distantly related elements.
12618412	We sequenced two maize bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones anchored by the centromere-specific satellite repeat CentC. The two BACs, consisting of approximately 200 kb of cytologically defined centromeric DNA, are composed exclusively of satellite sequences and retrotransposons that can be classified as centromere specific or noncentromere specific on the basis of their distribution in the maize genome. Sequence analysis suggests that the original maize sequences were composed of CentC arrays that were expanded by retrotransposon invasions. Seven centromere-specific retrotransposons of maize (CRM) were found in BAC 16H10. The CRM elements inserted randomly into either CentC monomers or other retrotransposons. Sequence comparisons of the long terminal repeats (LTRs) of individual CRM elements indicated that these elements transposed within the last 1.22 million years. We observed that all of the previously reported centromere-specific retrotransposons in rice and barley, which belong to the same family as the CRM elements, also recently transposed with the oldest element having transposed approximately 3.8 million years ago. Highly conserved sequence motifs were found in the LTRs of the centromere-specific retrotransposons in the grass species, suggesting that the LTRs may be important for the centromere specificity of this retrotransposon family.
12619275	A numerical model for simulating N2O emissions in agroecosystem was established. Validation of the model with the observed data showed that the model simulated the process of N2O emissions in fields fairly well. The numerical analysis showed that the N2O emissions were interrelated well with average temperature during rice growth periods. Analysis of N2O emissions and meteorological factors by using power spectrum found that the change of N2O emissions had 7-9 year cycles. Sensitivity test showed that the N2O emission increased with temperature enhancement.
12619805	Six experiments (EXP) were conducted to evaluate growth performance of different breed crosses of broiler chicks fed diets containing soybean meal, soy protein isolate (SPI), soy protein concentrate (SPC), or rice and casein. Cornish x Plymouth Rock (C x PR; EXP 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6) or New Hampshire x Columbian (NH x C; EXP 2 and 4) cross chicks were used. The chicks were fed a corn-soybean meal (C-SBM) diet before allotment to treatment. The age of the chicks ranged from 5 to 9 d posthatching at the start of the EXP, and the assay periods ranged from 8 to 14 d. Initial weights were 194.9, 96.1, 102.1, 84.7 [84.1 (C x PR) or 85.3 (NH x C)], 101.8, and 145.1 g in EXP 1 to 6, respectively. A completely randomized design was used in all EXP, and treatments were replicated four to six times with four or five chicks each. All diets were formulated to meet the NRC nutrient requirements of chicks. In EXP 1 (C x PR male chicks) and EXP 2 (NH x C female chicks), gain and gain:feed (G:F) were greater (P < 0.01) in chicks fed the C-SBM diet compared with chicks fed diets containing SPI. In EXP 3, C x PR chicks were fed a C-SBM diet, a SPI-dextrose-cornstarch diet (dextrose:cornstarch, 1:1) formulated by Louisiana State University Agricultural Center (LSU) or a similar SPI diet (dextrose:cornstarch, 0.53:1) formulated by the University of Illinois (UI). Daily gain, average daily feed intake (ADFI), and G:F were increased (P < 0.01) in chicks fed the C-SBM diet relative to chicks fed the two SPI diets, and there were only minor differences between the two SPI diets. In EXP 4, the C x PR and NH x C male chicks were fed the same diets used in EXP 3. Daily gain and ADFI were greater in the C x PR and NH x C chicks fed the C-SBM diet relative to chicks fed the SPI diets (P < 0.01), but the increased average daily gain (ADG) and ADFI in chicks fed the C-SBM diet were much greater in the C x PR chicks (chick x C-SBM vs. SPI, P < 0.01). Daily gain, ADFI, and G:F were greater (P < 0.01) in C x PR chicks than in NH x C chicks. In EXP 5, ADG, ADFI, and G:F were greater (P < 0.04) in chicks fed the C-SBM diet compared with those fed a C-SPC diet. In EXP 6, C x PR chicks fed the C-SBM diet grew faster (P < 0.09) than those fed a rice and casein diet. Variable effects of diet on growth of chicks were affected by breed crosses of chicks.
12621556	Ribose methylation is a widespread type of nucleotide modification in rRNA. In order to map the methylation sites of rice 25 S rRNA, a series of primers complementary to both yeast 28 S and rice 25 S rRNA simultaneously were synthesized. Primer extensions at different dNTP concentrations were carried out to detect the methylation sites of both yeast and rice rRNAs. The data showed that over 80% of the methylation sites in yeast 28 S rRNA was also detected in rice. In addition, compared with the known methylation sites of Arabidopsis 25 S rRNA, other 54 sites probably methylated in rice were found in Arabidopsis. Thus, there are 85 methylation sites detected altogether; the distribution of the methyl sites in rice 25 S rRNA was determined. The results show that most of the sites are conserved among different species, especially between closely related species. And remarkably, there are much more ribose methylation sites in plant rRNA, and the propinquous methylation sites in plants are more frequent than those in other eukaryotes. Moreover, the data provide the most important clue for searching new box C/D snoRNAs.
12623644	Acrylamide concentrations in processed foods (63 samples covering 31 product types) from Japan were analysed by LC-MS/MS and GC-MS methods. The limit of detection and limit of quantification of acrylamide were 0.2 ng x ml(-1) (6 fmol) and 0.8 ng x ml(-1) (22 fmol), respectively, by LC-MS/MS, and those of 2,3-dibromopropionamide derived from acrylamide were 12 ng x ml(-1) (52 fmol) and 40 ng x ml(-1) (170 fmol), respectively, by GC-MS. Repeatability given as RSD was <5 and <15% for the LC-MS/MS and GC-MS methods, respectively. High correlation (r(2) - 0.946) was observed between values obtained by the two methods. Most potato crisps and whole potato-based fried snacks showed acrylamide concentrations >1000 microg x kg(-1). The concentrations in non-whole potato-based snacks, rice crackers processed by grilling or frying, and candied sweet potatoes were lower compared with those in the potato crisps and the whole potato-based fried snacks. One of the whole potato-based fried snacks, however, showed low acrylamide concentration (<50 microg x kg(-1)) suggesting the formation of acrylamide is strongly influenced by processing conditions. Acrylamide concentrations in instant precooked noodles and won-tons were <100 microg x kg(-1) with only one exception. Roasted barley grains for 'Mugi-cha' tea contained 200-600 microg x kg(-1) acrylamide.
12624993	Four indica sterile lines (A) and corresponding maintainer lines (B) as well as five indica restorer lines, which varied in panicle dry weight, were used to create genetic populations of two generations according to incomplete diallel cross design (4 x 5). Analysis on panicle dry weight at different developmental stages based on tow-years experimental data was conducted by using additive-dominant developmental genetic models with genotype effects and genotype x environment interaction effects. The results showed that panicle dry weight was controlled by both genetic main effects and genotype x environment interaction effects in the whole developmental process. During the early-middle developmental periods (15 days after flowering), panicle dry weight was mainly governed by dominant effects, and dominant genes expressed with large amount. The meanwhile, positive effects produced by environmental factors appeared to be significant. Proper cultivation measure to create good external environment conditions for rice panicle was helpful to promote the expression of heterosis potential completely. Within the middle-late developmental periods (from the fifteenth day to the thirtieth days after flowering), additive effects played major role, and its genes expresed in the most active state. Genetic selection for panicle conducted in this period was expected to gain better genetic advancement.
12625136	Anopheline vectors and malaria transmission were studied in 2 river-irrigated, rice-growing districts of eastern Afghanistan from May 1995 to December 1996. Clinical malaria was monitored in 12 rural villages (population 14,538) by passive case detection at local clinics. Adult mosquitoes were collected by space-spraying of living quarters and stables and by cattle bait catches. Mosquito head-thoraces (17,255 specimens) were tested for Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax circumsporozoite protein (CSP) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The recorded incidence of P. vivax and P. falciparum was 199 and 41 episodes per 1000 person years, respectively. Twelve species of anopheline were recorded; Anopheles stephensi comprised 82% and A. culicifacies 5%. Eight species tested positive for CSP: A. stephensi, A. culicifacies, A. fluviatilus, A. annularis, A. pulcherrimus, A. maculatus, A. splendidus and A. superpictus. Among infected mosquitoes 46% were positive for P. falciparum, 45% for P. vivax VK-247, and 9% for P. vivax PV-210. Estimates of the feeding rates of infective vectors on humans indicated that A. stephensi would contribute 76% of infective bites, A. fluviatilis and A. pulcherrimus 7% each, and A. culicifacies and A. superpictus 3% each. The overall infective vector feeding rate correlated with the P. vivax incidence rate in the human population. The conventional view of A. culicifacies being the main rural vector and A. stephensi important only in urban settings needs to be reconsidered in western outreaches of the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent.
12626113	The presence of glutaredoxins in plants is now well recognized, but their functions and natural substrates remain largely unknown. Recently, a poplar glutaredoxin has been biochemically characterized and several mutants have been engineered in order to explore its reactivity. This work focuses on some physiological functions of the enzyme. According to our findings, the poplar glutaredoxin can serve as an electron donor to the bacterial 3'-phosphoadenylylsulfate reductase as it supports both the catalysis by the enzyme in vitro and complements a methionine auxotroph strain of Escherichia coli. In addition, poplar glutaredoxin is able to reduce the Escherichia coli ribonucleotide reductase 1a (in vitro reduction of cytidine diphosphate). Although this glutaredoxin is described as an electron donor to a phloem-located peroxiredoxin, whose function is to detoxify hydroperoxides, we found that it does not directly reduce hydrogen peroxide or other alkyl hydroperoxides as described for yeast and rice glutaredoxins. However, the poplar glutaredoxin may be involved in the response to oxidative stress as its overexpression in Escherichia coli resulted in a higher resistance toward hydrogen peroxide, menadione, and tert-butyl hydroperoxide.
12626420	The presence of nonmammalian core alpha(1,3)-fucose and core xylose glyco-epitopes on glycans N-linked to therapeutic glycoproteins produced in plants has raised the question of their immunogenicity in human therapy. We address this question by studying the distribution of these N-glycans in pea, rice, and maize (which are the crops intended for the production of therapeutic proteins) and by reinvestigating their immunogenicity in rodents. We found that immunization with a model glycoprotein, horseradish peroxidase, elicits in C57BL/6 mice and rats the production of antibodies (Abs) specific for core alpha(1,3)-fucose and core xylose epitopes. Furthermore, we demonstrated that about 50% of nonallergic blood donors contains in their sera Abs specific for core xylose, whereas 25% have Abs against core alpha(1,3)-fucose. These Abs probably result from sensitization to environmental antigens. Although the immunological significance of these data is too speculative at the moment, the presence of such Abs might introduce some limitations to the use of plant-derived biopharmaceutical glycoproteins, such as an accelerated clearance during human therapy.
12627186	Practical use of the glycaemic index (GI), as recommended by the FAO/WHO, requires an evaluation of the recommended method. Our purpose was to determine the magnitude and sources of variation of the GI values obtained by experienced investigators in different international centres. GI values of four centrally provided foods (instant potato, rice, spaghetti and barley) and locally obtained white bread were determined in 8-12 subjects in each of seven centres using the method recommended by FAO/WHO. Data analysis was performed centrally. University departments of nutrition. Healthy subjects (28 male, 40 female) were studied. The GI values of the five foods did not vary significantly in different centres nor was there a significant centrexfood interaction. Within-subject variation from two centres using venous blood was twice that from five centres using capillary blood. The s.d. of centre mean GI values was reduced from 10.6 (range 6.8-12.8) to 9.0 (range 4.8-12.6) by excluding venous blood data. GI values were not significantly related to differences in method of glucose measurement or subject characteristics (age, sex, BMI, ethnicity or absolute glycaemic response). GI values for locally obtained bread were no more variable than those for centrally provided foods. The GI values of foods are more precisely determined using capillary than venous blood sampling, with mean between-laboratory s.d. of approximately 9.0. Finding ways to reduce within-subject variation of glycaemic responses may be the most effective strategy to improve the precision of measurement of GI values.
12630319	Response surface methodology (RSM) was employed to study the effect of the composition of the rice-glycerol complex medium on the production of lovastatin (Lvs) by the ascomycete Monascus ruber in mixed solid-liquid (or submerged) cultures at 25 degrees C. Four components (rice powder, peptone, glycerol, glucose) were studied to evaluate the approximate polynomial for all dependent variables, explaining their effects on the production of Lvs. The best composition derived from RSM regression was (in g/L) rice powder 34.4, peptone 10.8,, glucose 129, KNO3 8.0, MgSO4.7H2O 4.0 and glycerol 36.4 mL/L. With this composition, the Lvs production was 157 mg/L after 10 d of cultivation. In comparison with glycerol and glucose, the rice powder becomes a more suitable carbon source and represents a great potential for the production of Lvs.
12631325	Compared to rice, wheat exhibits characteristic growth habits and contains complex genome constituents. To assess global changes in gene expression patterns in the wheat life cycle, we conducted large-scale analysis of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) in common wheat. Ten wheat tissues were used to construct cDNA libraries: crown and root from 14-day-old seedlings; spikelet from early and late flowering stages; spike at the booting stage, heading date and flowering date; pistil at the heading date; and seeds at 10 and 30 days post-anthesis. Several thousand colonies were randomly selected from each of these 10 cDNA libraries and sequenced from both 5' and 3' ends. Consequently, a total of 116 232 sequences were accumulated and classified into 25 971 contigs based on sequence homology. By computing abundantly expressed ESTs, correlated expression patterns of genes across the tissues were identified. Furthermore, relationships of gene expression profiles among the 10 wheat tissues were inferred from global gene expression patterns. Genes with similar functions were grouped with one another by clustering gene expression profiles. This technique might enable estimation of the functions of anonymous genes. Multidimensional analysis of EST data that is analogous to the microarray experiments may offer new approaches to functional genomics of plants.
12635344	Residues of 17 pesticides in agricultural products were determined by LC/MS with an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) interface in both positive and negative ion modes. Pesticides were extracted with acetonitrile, and the extracts were cleaned-up with a primary and secondary amine (PSA) mini-column eluted with acetone-hexane (1:1). Rice, orange and potato were spiked with the 17 pesticides at 0.1 microgram/g and analyzed by the proposed method. The average recoveries of these pesticides usually ranged from 70 to 98% and the relative standard deviations were usually around 10%. These results suggested that LC/MS with APCI could be used to determine the residue levels of the 17 pesticides in these crops.
12635715	In rice, nodule like structures were formed by inoculation of A. caulinodans combined with growth regulators and enzymes. Among the treatments, combination of cell wall degrading enzyme mixture and NAA with A. caulinodans induced more number of paranodules in rice. Total nitrogen content also increased in treated plants compared to uninoculated control.
12635818	To understand the magnitude of the arsenic calamity in West Bengal, a detailed study spanning 7 years was made in North 24-Parganas, one of the nine arsenic affected districts. Area and population of North 24-Parganas district are 4093.82 sq. km and 7.3 million, respectively. Fourty eight thousand and thirty water samples were analyzed from hand tubewells of North 24-Parganas in use for drinking, cooking and 29.2% of the tubewells were found to have arsenic above 50 microg/L, the maximum permissible limit of World Health Organization (WHO) and 52.8% have arsenic above 10 microg/L, WHO recommended value of arsenic in drinking water. Out of the 22 blocks of North 24-Parganas, in 20 blocks arsenic has been found above the maximum permissible limit and so far in 16 blocks people have been identified as suffering from arsenical skin lesions. From the generated data, it is estimated that about 2.0 million and 1.0 million people are drinking arsenic contaminated water above 10 microg/L and 50 microg/L level, respectively in North 24-Parganas alone. So far, in our preliminary study 33,000 people have been examined at random from arsenic affected villages in North 24-Parganas and 2274 people have been registered with arsenical skin lesions. Extrapolation of the available data indicates about 0.1 million people may be suffering from arsenical skin lesions from North 24-Parganas alone. A sum of 21,000 hair, nail, and urine samples analyses from arsenic affected villages show 56%, 80%, and 87% people have arsenic in biological specimen more than normal/toxic (hair) level, respectively. Thus, many may be subclinically affected. Due to use of arsenic contaminated groundwater for agricultural irrigation, rice and vegetable are getting arsenic contaminated. Hence there is an additional arsenic burden from food chain. People from arsenic affected villages are also suffering from arsenical neuropathy. A followup study indicates that many of the victims suffering from severe arsenical skin lesions for several years are now suffering from cancer or have already died of cancer.
12635819	The total arsenic content of 150 paddy rice samples collected from Barisal, Comilla, Dinajpur, Kaunia, and Rajshahi districts, and from the BRRI experimental station at Rajshahi city in the boro and aman seasons of 2000 was determined by hydride generation-inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy (ICP). Arsenic concentrations varied from 10 to 420 microg/kg at 14% moisture content. Rice yields and grain arsenic concentrations were 1.5 times higher in the boro (winter) than the summer (monsoon) season, consistent with the much greater use of groundwater for irrigation in the boro season. Mean values for the boro and aman season rices were 183 and 117 microg/kg, respectively. The variation in arsenic concentrations in rice was only partially consistent with the pattern of arsenic concentrations in drinking water tube wells. There was no evidence from yield or panicle sterility data of arsenic toxicity to rice. Processing of rice (parboiling and milling) reduced arsenic concentrations in rice by an average of 19% in 21 samples collected from households. Human exposure to arsenic through rice would be equivalent to half of that in water containing 50 microg/kg for 14% of the paddy rice samples at rice and water intake levels of 400 g and 4 L/cap/day, respectively.
12636870	The dynamics of a kink driven by noise is analyzed using the two collective variables of the Rice ansatz: position and width. Starting from a stochastic partial differential equation, with the phi(4) potential in the overdamped limit, the pair of stochastic differential equations for the collective variables are derived without approximation other than the ansatz itself. From the steady state probability density of the kink width, the diffusivity of a kink is calculated.
12638167	As the last manuscript in our series of review articles on cadmium (Cd) and health effects, we reviewed research articles on epidemiologic and experimental studies on exposure levels of Cd in occupational and environmental settings in various countries, disposition and body burden of Cd, critical concentrations of Cd in the kidney of humans and animals with a focus on biomarkers for renal dysfunction, and life expectancy in Cd-polluted areas and reference areas. After this manuscript was compiled, cadmium levels in rice crops received significant attention, since the risk assessment of cadmium is now under review and discussion by the Joint Expert Committee of Food Additives and Contaminants organized by the Food Agricultural Organization and World Health Organization in 2003. We hope that the information compiled in this review may provide directions for future studies on the health risk assessment of Cd.
12638692	Rice seedlings maintained under uncontrolled glasshouse conditions were inoculated with conidial suspensions of a fungal pathogen, Helminthosporium oryzae, at various times during the 24h. Significant increase in the percent germination and germ tube length of conidia were observed in the rice samples inoculated at 02:00 and 06:00h. The 24 h temporal variation in leaf temperature was positively correlated with variation in stomatal movements. The results indicate a 24 h rhythm in the behavior of the fungal pathogen on the host in relation to the conditions of the growing environment. In all the inoculated seedlings, the appearance of a large number of brown leaf spots was confined to the light span. Among the plants inoculated, earlier initiation of brown leaf spot appearance, maximum number of leaf spots, and highest disease severity were observed when plants were inoculated at 02:00h. There was a positive correlation between disease severity of the host and in vivo values of percent germination of conidia and germ tube length of the pathogen in plants inoculated between 02:00 and 06:00h. The findings of this study implicate that light intensity and temperature could play a predominant role in controlling disease susceptibility rhythms in plants.
12639227	To describe the average consumption of carbohydrate-providing food groups among study centres of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC). Of the 27 redefined EPIC study centres, 19 contributed subjects of both genders and eight centres female participants only (men, women, after exclusion of subjects under 35 and over 74 years of age from the original 36 900 total). Dietary data were obtained using the 24-hour recall methodology using the EPIC-SOFT software. The major sources of dietary carbohydrate were identified, and 16 food groups were examined. The 10 food groups contributing most carbohydrate were bread; fruit; milk and milk products; sweet buns, cakes and pies; potato; sugar and jam; pasta and rice; vegetables and legumes; crispbread; and fruit and vegetable juices. Consumption of fruits as well as vegetables and legumes was higher in southern compared with northern centres, while soft drinks consumption was higher in the north. Italian centres had high pasta and rice consumption, but breakfast cereal, potato, and sweet buns, cakes and pies were higher in northern centres. In Sweden, lower bread consumption was balanced with a higher consumption of crispbread, and with sweet buns, cakes and pies. Overall, men consumed higher amounts of vegetables and legumes, bread, soft drinks, potatoes, pasta and rice, breakfast cereal and sugar and jam than women, but fruit consumption appeared more frequent in women. The study supports the established idea that carbohydrate-rich foods chosen in northern Europe are different from those in the Mediterranean region. When comparing and interpreting diet-disease relationships across populations, researchers need to consider all types of foods.
12639403	Antioxidant activity was studied for anthocyanins extracted from purple black rice (PBR) by a 3% aqueous trifluoroacetic acid solution (TFA), as well as for anthocyanins extracted from blueberry (Bluetta, high bush type). Capillary zone electrophoresis revealed that the PBR extract contained almost exclusively a single anthocyanin, which was identified as cyanidin 3-O-beta-D-glucoside (Cy 3-Glc) after purification by polyvinylpyrrolidone column chromatography. In contrast, 11 anthocyanins were identified in the blueberry extract. PBR extract showed slightly weaker superoxide scavenging and crocin bleaching activities than blueberry extract did. Both PBR and blueberry extracts, however, showed 10 to 25 times stronger activity than the same concentration of Trolox used as a reference antioxidant. It was further noted that the purified Cy 3-Glc from PBR extract retained approximately 74% of the antioxidant activity (both crocin bleaching and superoxide scavenging) observed in the original TFA extract. The hydroxyl radical scavenging activity of both extracts was several times weaker than that of the same concentration of Trolox, although the PBR extract showed approximately two times stronger activity than blueberry extract did. The hydroxyl radical scavenging activity of the purified Cy 3-Glc from PBR, however, decreased to approximately 20% of that of the original PBR extract. These results indicate that the anthocyanin Cy 3-Glc contributes to the antioxidant activity of PBR through its strong superoxide radical but not hydroxyl radical scavenging activity.
12639587	This article assesses the role of malaria and some social determinants on the agricultural development and more precisely on efficiency in the context of cotton crop in the Korhogo region in the North of Côte d'Ivoire. Data envelopment analyses (DEA) was first applied for the purpose of calculating relative efficiencies in production. A Tobit regression model was then used to explain the variation in the DEA scores and check the hypotheses that the efficiency deviations between farmers can be explained by the disparity of malaria morbidity rate among the farmers and their family, by social cohesiveness and cultural behaviour. Field data were collected by the authors between March 1997 and February 1998 on 700 rural households living in three rice production systems differently exposed to the malaria risk. Two malaria indicators were used for the active (11-55 years old) family members of the farm: Plasmodium falciparum infection rate and high parasite density infection rate. The DEA model was applied on the sub-sample of cotton growers (about one third of the households of the full sample). Results of the different DEA and Tobit models (depending of the production process hypothesis) show that high parasite density infection has a direct and indirect negative effect on efficiency in the cotton crop. They also show that more cotton growers in the village improve efficiency, although villages where cotton is growing more widespread have weaker social cohesion.
12642667	Annual and perennial habit are two major strategies by which grasses adapt to seasonal environmental change, and these distinguish cultivated cereals from their wild relatives. Rhizomatousness, a key trait contributing to perenniality, was investigated by using an F(2) population from a cross between cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) and its wild relative, Oryza longistaminata. Molecular mapping based on a complete simple sequence-repeat map revealed two dominant-complementary genes controlling rhizomatousness. Rhz3 was mapped to the interval between markers OSR16 [1.3 centimorgans (cM)] and OSR13 (8.1 cM) on rice chromosome 4 and Rhz2 located between RM119 (2.2 cM) and RM273 (7.4 cM) on chromosome 3. Comparative mapping indicated that each gene closely corresponds to major quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling rhizomatousness in Sorghum propinquum, a wild relative of cultivated sorghum. Correspondence of these genes in rice and sorghum, which diverged from a common ancestor approximately 50 million years ago, suggests that the two genes may be key regulators of rhizome development in many Poaceae. Many additional QTLs affecting abundance of rhizomes in O. longistaminata were identified, most of which also corresponded to the locations of S. propinquum QTLs. Convergent evolution of independent mutations at, in some cases, corresponding genes may have been responsible for the evolution of annual cereals from perennial wild grasses. DNA markers closely linked to Rhz2 and Rhz3 will facilitate cloning of the genes, which may contribute significantly to our understanding of grass evolution, advance opportunities to develop perennial cereals, and offer insights into environmentally benign weed-control strategies.
12643350	Phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) was critical for many plant growth and developmental processes including seed maturation, germination and response to environmental factors. With the purpose to detect the possible ABA related signal transduction pathways, we tried to isolate ABA-regulated genes through cDNA macroarray technology using ABA-treated rice seedling as materials (under treatment for 2, 4, 8 and 12 h). Of 6144 cDNA clones tested, 37 differential clones showing induction or suppression for at least one time, were isolated. Of them 30 and 7 were up- or down-regulated respectively. Sequence analyses revealed that the putative encoded proteins were involved in different possible processes, including transcription, metabolism and resistance, photosynthesis, signal transduction, and seed maturation. 6 cDNA clones were found to encode proteins with unknown functions. Regulation by ABA of 7 selected clones relating to signal transduction or metabolism was confirmed by reverse transcription PCR. In addition, some clones were further shown to be regulated by other plant growth regulators including auxin and brassinosteroid, which, however, indicated the complicated interactions of plant hormones. Possible signal transduction pathways involved in ABA were discussed.
12644668
12644681	We have searched the Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) genomes for homologs of LRX1, an Arabidopsis gene encoding a novel type of cell wall protein containing a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and an extensin domain. Eleven and eight LRX (LRR/EXTENSIN) genes have been identified in these two plant species, respectively. The LRX gene family encodes proteins characterized by a short N-terminal domain, a domain with 10 LRRs, a cysteine-rich motif, and a variable C-terminal extensin-like domain. Phylogenetic analysis performed on the conserved domains indicates the existence of two major clades of LRX proteins that arose before the eudicot/monocot divergence and then diversified independently in each lineage. In Arabidopsis, gene expression studies by northern hybridization and promoter::uidA fusions showed that the two phylogenetic clades represent a specialization into "reproductive" and "vegetative" LRXs. The four Arabidopsis genes of the "reproductive" clade are specifically expressed in pollen, whereas the seven "vegetative" genes are predominantly expressed in various sporophytic tissues. This separation into two expression classes is also supported by previous studies on maize (Zea mays) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) LRX homologs and by information on available rice ESTs. The strong conservation of the amino acids responsible for the putative recognition specificity of the LRR domain throughout the family suggests that the LRX proteins interact with similar ligands.
12645263	A doubled-haploid population, consisting of 81 DH lines derived from the F1 hybrid of a cross between an indica cultivar and a japonica cultivar, was used to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling numbers of vascular bundles in peduncle, primary rachis branches and the ratio of vascular bundles to primary rachis branches (V/R ratio). For vascular bundles, three QTL were detected. Among them, the QTL qVB-8 with the largest effect individually accounted for 31.1% of the total variation. Two QTL controlling primary rachis branches were identified and they were co-located with 2 of the 3 QTL for vascular bundles respectively. Three QTL for the V/R ratio were mapped on chromosome 1, 2 and 8, respectively. Of the three QTL, the QTL qV/R-1 with the largest additive effect, explained 25.3% of the total variation, was located on chromosome 1 and found to be closely linked to the gene sh-2, a major gene underlying grain-shattering ability. In addition, four and two pairs of significant epistatic QTL were detected for vascular bundles and the V/R ratio, respectively, but none for rachis branches. Our results suggested that the numbers of vascular bundles and primary rachis branches were independently controlled by different polygenic systems, but the two polygenic systems shared a fraction of quantitative trait loci. It was also shown that the chromosome region carrying the QTL qV/R-1 on chromosome 1 might play an important role in the processes of indica-japonica differentiation in rice.
12645264	The cytoplasmic male sterility for wild-abortive (CMS-WA) has been wildly used for hybrid rice breeding in China. The fertility restoration of CMS-WA is controlled mainly by two independent and dominant nuclear fertility restoring genes, Rf-3 and Rf-4. To map the Rf-4 gene with molecular markers, rice YAC clones of RGP, Japan were used to create new molecular marker. YAC contigs located between RFLP markers R1877 and G2155 on chromosome 10 were confirmed by hybridization with 12 RFLP probes. Six YAC clones, Y4630, Y2670, Y4892, Y2111, Y3821 and Y5528 were identified. Chromosome DNAs of the YAC clones were prepared and separated by CHEF. A total of 119 probes were created by sub-cloning of the YAC DNAs. RFLPs were screened between Zhenshan 97A and its near-isogenic lines with Rf-4Rf-4 genotype. Two probes, Y3-8 from Y4892 and Y1-10 from Y4630, were found to be polymorphic. Using F2 populations from crosses between Zhenshan 97A and its near-isogenic lines ZSR11, Y3-8 and Y1-10 were mapped to Rf-4 locus with genetic distances of 0.9 cM and 3.2 cM, respectively.
12645265	The segregation mode of transgenes was investigated in the transgenic progenies of three rice varieties (lines) produced by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The transgenic lines all contained the Bacillus thuringiensis cry1Ab gene, under the control of a maize ubiquitin promoter, and linked in tandem with gusA and hpt genes. PCR analysis showed the transgenes cry1Ab and gusA co-segregated in all self and crossed progenies tested. Therefore, GUS bio-assay of leaf or endosperm tissues was used to monitor transgene segregation in the experiment. It was found that the ratio of positive to negative plants was significantly smaller than 3:1 in all heterozygous plants derived progenies, which implied the segregation biased from typical Mendelian mode for a single dominant gene. Less GUS positive plants, and consequently less homozygous transgenic lines than expected were recovered from the self progenies. Transgenic heterozygous plants (+/-) were crossed as female or male parent to conventional rice varieties (-/-), and the ratio of gusA positive (+/-) to negative (-/-) plants was investigated in test F1 population. When used as female parent, the segregation fit to 1:1, but significantly smaller than 1:1 when used as male parent. The seed-set of transgenic Nipponbare progeny was investigated individually for GUS positive and negative plants. It was found that the positive plants had an average seed-set of 64.5%, significantly lower than that of negative plants (77.9%). The biological and genetic basis of distorted segregation of transgenes was discussed and deduced on the basis of above results, and the authors are inclined to ascribe these phenomena to the poor competitive ability of pollens carrying transgenes.
12645266	In silico cloning was a new strategy of gene cloning developed with the development of genome, EST projects and bioinformatics. Using wheat glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase cDNA (clone: Tagpdl) sequence as a querying probe, one highly homologous BAC clone sequence was obtained from rice sequence database of GenBank and the putative cDNA sequence of rice glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was assembled according to the wheat clone. Furthermore, the full-length cDNA of rice glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was cloned by RT-PCR with two primers designed based on this assembled cDNA sequence. Since this fragment contained a complete ORF of 1515 bp with a stop codon in its upstream and poly(A) signal in its downstream, it could be concluded that a full-length gene (GenBank accession number AY078072), which was named as OsG6PDH. Homology analysis of OsG6PDH showed a 88% identity with wheat and the deduced amino acid showed 89%, 79% and 80% homology with G6PDH from wheat, tomato and tobacco respectively. OsG6PDH was expressed in inflorescence, embryo, root and leaf of rice, with a slightly higher in inflorescence and root. It was also discussed in this paper that the application of in silico cloning in the isolation of functional genes from rice.
12645299	This report illustrates development of plant sequencing programmes. So far Arabidopsis genome has been completely sequenced and a draft of the rice genome is available. The Arabidopsis programmes stimulated sequencing of EST (expressed sequence tags) from numerous cultivated species thus creating an enormous resource. The major challenge is now to correctly annotate all the genes in Arabidopsis and find out a biological and biochemical function for each one. The availability of EST and genome sequence now allows one to analyse the expression of genes at the level of the whole genome.
12647052	Rice progenies used for the construction of genetic maps permit exhaustive identification and characterization of resistance genes present in their parental cultivars. We inoculated a rice progeny derived from the cross IR64 x Azucena with different Magnaporthe grisea isolates that showed differential responses on the parental cultivars. By QTL mapping, nine unlinked loci conferring resistance to each isolate were identified and named Pi-24(t) to Pi-32(t). They could correspond to nine specific resistance genes. Five of these resistance loci (RLs) were mapped at chromosomal locations where no resistance gene was previously reported, defining new resistance genes. Using degenerate primers of the NBS (nucleotide binding site) motif found in many resistance genes, two resistance gene analogues (RGAs) IR86 and IR14 were identified and mapped closely to two blast RLs (resistance identified in this study, i.e. Pi-29(t) and Pi-30(t) respectively). These two RLs may correspond to the Pi-11 and Pi-a blast resistance genes previously identified. Moreover, the ir86 and ir14 genes have been identified "in silico" on the indica rice cultivar 93-11, recently sequenced by Chinese researchers. Both genes encodes NBS-LRR-like proteins that are characteristics of plant-disease resistance genes.
12647062	Leaf rust is the most common disease in wheat production. There are more than 45 specific resistance genes described and used in wheat breeding to control epidemics of leaf rust, but none of them has been cloned. The leaf rust disease resistance gene 1 (Lr1) is a good model gene for isolation by map-based cloning because it is a single, dominant gene which is located in the distal region of chromosome 5DL of wheat. As the first step towards the isolation of this gene we constructed a high-resolution genetic map in the region of the Lr1 locus by saturation mapping of two large segregating F(2) populations (Thatcher Lr1 x Thatcher, Thatcher Lr1 x Frisal). The resistance gene Lr1 was delimited in a 0.16-cM region between the RFLP markers ABC718 and PSR567 (0.12 cM from ABC718 and 0.04 cM from PSR567). A genomic BAC library of Aegilops tauschii (D genome) was screened using the RFLP markers ABC718 and PSR567. Five positive BAC clones were identified by ABC718 and four clones by PSR567. Two NBS-LRR type of resistance gene analogs, which encode proteins highly homologous to the bacterial blight disease resistance protein Xa1 of rice, were identified on BAC clones isolated with PSR567. Polymorphic BAC end probes were isolated from both ends of a 105-kb large BAC clone identified by ABC718. The end probes were mapped at the same locus as ABC718, and no recombination event was found within 105 kb around ABC718 in our analysis of more than 4,000 gametes.
12647068	We characterize one transcription factor of DRE-binding proteins (TaDREB1) that was isolated from a drought-induced cDNA library of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). TaDREB1 contains one conserved EREBP/AP2 domain, and shows similarity with Arabidopsis thaliana DREB family members in both overall amino-acid sequences and the secondary structure arrangement within the DNA-binding motifs. In yeast one-hybrid system, TaDREB1, can specially activate the genes fused with the promoter containing three tandemly repeated copies of the wild-type DRE sequence: TACCGACAT. In different wheat cultivars, the Ta DREB1 gene is induced by low temperature, salinity and drought; and the expression of Wcs120 that contains DRE motifs in its promoter is closely related to the expression of TaDREB1. These results suggest that TaDREB1 functions as a DRE-binding transcription factor in wheat. We also observed the dwarf phenotype in transgenic rice (T0) overexpressing TaDREB1.
12649483	Gibberellin (GA) regulates growth and development in plants. We isolated and characterized a rice GA-insensitive dwarf mutant, gid2. The GID2 gene encodes a putative F-box protein, which interacted with the rice Skp1 homolog in a yeast two-hybrid assay. In gid2, a repressor for GA signaling, SLR1, was highly accumulated in a phosphorylated form and GA increased its concentration, whereas SLR1 was rapidly degraded by GA through ubiquitination in the wild type. We conclude that GID2 is a positive regulator of GA signaling and that regulated degradation of SLR1 is initiated through GA-dependent phosphorylation and finalized by an SCF(GID2)-proteasome pathway.
12650258	1-Anthroylnitrile (1-AN) has been shown to be an efficient labelling reagent for the determination of T-2 toxin (T-2) by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-fluorescence detection. This reaction has been used to develop a sensitive, reproducible and accurate method for the determination of T-2 in wheat, corn, barley, oats, rice and sorghum. The method uses immunoaffinity columns containing antibodies specific for T-2 for extract clean-up, pre-column derivatization with 1-AN and HPLC with fluorescence detection for toxin determination. Ground cereal samples were extracted with methanol-water (80:20, v/v), the extracts were purified by immunoaffinity columns and the toxin was quantified by reversed-phase HPLC with fluorometric detection (excitation wavelength 381 nm, emission wavelength 470 nm) after derivatization with 1-AN. Recoveries from the different cereals spiked with T-2 at levels ranging from 0.05 to 1.5 microg/g were from 80 to 99%, with relative standard deviations of less than 6%. The limit of detection was 0.005 microg/g, based on a signal-to-noise ratio of 3:1.
12650364	Resistance of wild and cultivated rice bean (Vigna umbellata [Thunberg] Ohwi and Ohashi) to three bruchid species, Callosobruchus chinensis L., Callosobruchus maculatus F., and Callosobruchus analis F., was evaluated. All but three accessions of cultivated, and all wild rice bean accessions tested, exhibited complete resistance to all three bruchid species. Rice bean seeds with seed coat removed also showed complete resistance to the three bruchid species. Results indicate that physical attributes and/or chemical(s) present in the seed coat of rice bean are not the main factors responsible for resistance. Feeding tests were performed by using artificial beans prepared with varying proportions of rice bean (resistant) and azuki bean (susceptible) flour. Number of bruchid adults that emerged decreased, and larval developmental period (days) was extended, when artificial beans with an increasing proportion of rice bean flour were used. These tests revealed that a chemical compound(s) contained in the cotyledon of rice bean has an inhibitory effect on the growth of these bruchid species. The results also indicate that the chemical(s) in rice bean cotyledon is most effective against C. maculatus.
12650522	Indica and japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were transformed by particle bombardment with the Itr1 gene encoding the barley trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe, under the control of its own promoter that confers endosperm specificity, and the maize ubiquitin promoter. From 38 independent transgenic lines of indica (breeding line IR58) and 15 of the japonica (cv Senia) selected, 22 and 11, respectively, expressed the barley inhibitor at detectable levels. The transgene was correctly translated as indicated by western blot analysis with a level of expression in R3 seeds up to 0.31% (IR58) and 0.43% (Senia) of the total extracted protein. The functional integrity of BTI-CMe was confirmed by trypsin activity assays in liquid media and by activity staining gels, performed with seed extracts. The significant reduction of the survival rate of the rice weevil (Sitophilus oryzae, Coleoptera: Curculionidae) reared on homozygous transgenic indica and japonica rice seeds expressing the BTI-CMe, compared to non-transformed controls, and the decrease in the trypsin-like activity of insect crude midgut extracts, confirmed the utility of this proteinase inhibitor gene for the control of important storage pests.
12650526	Amylose content in rice endosperm is a key determinant of eating and cooking quality. In the present study, a chimeric antisense construct, which contained a 756-bp antisense Waxy (Wx) gene DNA fragment from rice and the gusA coding sequence, both fused to the 3.1-kb rice Wx promoter, was efficiently introduced into several elite rice cultivars, both of japonica and indica type, via Agrobacterium. More than 200 independent transgenic lines were produced and integration transgene was confirmed by PCR and Southern blotting. Northern blot analysis suggested that the antisense Wx transcript interacted with both the endogenous Wx mature mRNA and unspliced transcripts, but only interaction with the mature mRNA resulted in reduced amylose synthesis. Analysis of GUS activity showed that the gusA fusion gene driven by the rice Wx promoter expressed highly in the endosperm of the transgenic rice plants. Varying degrees of reduction in amylose content, up to 96%, were found in seeds derived from these transformants. Consistently, opaque white seeds, similar to glutinous rice, were observed in several transgenic lines of japonica rice. In transgenic lines derived from indica rice, which usually has a high amylose level, significant reduction of amylose content was also found in the endosperm, but the levels of reduction were lower than those of japonica rice. Genetic analysis demonstrated that transgenes and improved amylose content were stably inherited (up to ninth generation) in these transgenic lines. Several elite transgenic lines with improved amylose level and quality have been selected for field evaluation.
12650614	The structure and expression of a novel senescence-associated gene (SPA15) of sweet potato were characterized. The protein coding region of the gene consists of 13 exons encoding 420 amino acids. Apparent homologues of this sweet potato gene are found in a variety of dicot and monocot plants, but not in animals or microorganisms. Examination of the expression patterns of the SPA15 gene in sweet potato reveals that the transcripts of SPA15 are specifically induced in the senescing leaves, and the temporal profile of SPA15 protein accumulation is correlated with that of SPA15 transcripts. Studies on the distribution of SPA15 homologue in rice plants also indicate that SPA15 homologue is up-regulated specifically in senescing rice leaves. Treatment of detached sweet potato leaves with phytohormones including ethylene, methyl jasmonate, salicylic acid and abscisic acid resulted in a high-level induction of SPA15. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis demonstrates that SPA15 is specifically associated with the cell wall. The potential role for SPA15 during leaf senescence is discussed.
12650620	HSP100 protein is an important component of the heat-shock response in diverse organisms. Using specific primers based on cDNA sequence, rice hsp101 gene was PCR-amplified and sequenced. Southern analysis revealed that there appears to be a single gene per haploid genome coding for HSP101 protein in rice. Northern analysis showed that expression of hsp101 transcript is strictly heat-inducible and induction is transient in nature. In the temperature regime tested, 45 degrees C treatment to intact rice seedlings for 2 h showed maximal levels of hsp101 mRNA. Rice full-length hsp101 cDNA complemented yeast mutant disrupted for its own hsp104 gene by insertional mutagenesis, with efficacy that was comparable with Arabidopsis hsp101 cDNA. Electron micrographic evidence suggested that rice hsp101 cDNA in yeast is active in re-solubilizing the stress-induced protein granules in the post-stress recovery period. Rice hsp101 cDNA expression in hsp104 deficient yeast also caused recovery in tolerance against arsenite. Western analyses showed that this protein is expressed more rapidly during the stress period and retained for longer duration in the post-stress recovery period in japonica rice as compared to indica rice types. This is the first report wherein plant HSP100 protein expression is correlated to disappearance of protein granules in the yeast cells and distinct rice type-dependent protein expression patterns are reported.
12652578	Regulation of gene expression through interaction of proteins with specific DNA sequences is a central issue in functional genomics. Capillary electrophoretic mobility shift assay is an efficient novel method for the investigation of sequence specific protein-DNA interactions, allowing rapid and sensitive quantification of the complex formation. In this paper, we present a pilot study on capillary zone electrophoretic mobility shift assay (CZEMSA) to investigate the interaction between the transcription factors of HeLa nuclear extract and Sp1-specific fluorescein-labeled oligonucleotide, using the unlabeled probe as competitor. The mobility shift assay was accomplished by CZE in coated capillaries without polymeric buffer additives. Specificity of the DNA protein complex formation was verified by competition experiments, as well as by supershift assay with an anti-Sp1 antibody. The applied electric field strength did not affect the stability of DNA-protein complex during the electrophoretic analysis, allowing rapid identification and quantification of the protein DNA interaction. A practical application to study the interaction between Oryza sativa MADS-box transcription factor 4 (OsMADS4) and its consensus sequence is also reported.
12653222	Injection of the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into the vitreous body of rats resulted in severe degeneration of neurons in the retina, with a loss of 81% of ganglion cells and 43% of non-ganglion cells. The cocktail EM-X is a novel antioxidant drink derived from ferment of unpolished rice, papaya and sea-weeds with effective microorganisms (EM-X). In animals treated with an intraperitoneal injection of EM-X, the loss of ganglion cells was reduced to 55% and that of non-ganglion cells to 34% when compared to untreated NMDA-injected retinas. Cell degeneration resulting from NMDA excitotoxicity, is thought to be mediated via oxidative stress mechanisms. The neuroprotective effect of the EM-X in this system is therefore likely to be due, at least in part, to its flavonoids, saponins, vitamin E and ascorbic content.
12653275	In this study, rice straw-wood particle composite boards were manufactured as insulation boards using the method used in the wood-based panel industry. The raw material, rice straw, was chosen because of its availability. The manufacturing parameters were: a specific gravity of 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8, and a rice straw content (10/90, 20/80, and 30/70 weight of rice straw/wood particle) of 10, 20, and 30 wt.%. A commercial urea-formaldehyde adhesive was used as the composite binder, to achieve 140-290 psi of bending modulus of rupture (MOR) with 0.4 specific gravity, 700-900 psi of bending MOR with 0.6 specific gravity, and 1400-2900 psi of bending MOR with a 0.8 specific gravity. All of the composite boards were superior to insulation board in strength. Width and length of the rice straw particle did not affect the bending MOR. The composite boards made from a random cutting of rice straw and wood particles were the best and recommended for manufacturing processes. Sound absorption coefficients of the 0.4 and 0.6 specific gravity boards were higher than the other wood-based materials. The recommended properties of the rice straw-wood particle composite boards are described, to absorb noises, preserve the temperature of indoor living spaces, and to be able to partially or completely substitute for wood particleboard and insulation board in wooden constructions.
12653279	Adsorption behaviour of Ni(II), Zn(II), Cd(II) and Cr(VI) on untreated and phosphate-treated rice husk (PRH) showed that adsorption of Ni(II) and Cd(II) was greater when PRH was used as an adsorbent. Sorption of Cd(II) was dependent on contact time, concentration, temperature, adsorbent doses and pH of the solution. The Langmuir constants and thermodynamic parameters have been calculated at different temperatures. It was found that recovery of Cd(II) from synthetic wastewater by column operation was better than a batch process.
12653295	Flooded rice fields are one of the major biogenic methane sources. In this study, methane emission rates were measured after transplanting in paddy fields with application of two kinds of nitrogen fertilizers (ammonium sulfate, NH4+-N and potassium nitrate, NO3(-)-N) and with two kinds of rice varieties (Japonica and Indica). The experiment was conducted in fields located at Tainan District Agricultural Improvement Station in Chia-Yi county (23 degrees 25'08"N, 120 degrees 16'26"E) of southern Taiwan throughout the first and the second crop seasons in 1999. The seasonal methane flux in the first crop season with NH4+-N and NO3(-)-N ranged from 2.48 to 2.78 and from 8.65 to 9.22 g CH4 m(-2); and the values ranged 24.6-34.2 and 36.4-52.6 g CH4 m(-2) in the second crop season, respectively. In the first crop season, there were significantly increased 3.1-3.7-fold in methane emission fluxes due to plantation of Indica rice. In comparison of two rice varieties, the Indica rice variety showed a tendency for larger methane emission than the Japonica rice variety in the second crop season. Moreover, ammonium sulfate treatment significantly reduced CH4 emissions by 37-85% emissions compared to potassium nitrate plots. It was concluded that the CH4 emission was markedly dependent on the type of nitrogen fertilizer and rice variety in Taiwan paddy soils.
12653442	Rice starch was modified with various levels of 2-octen-1-ylsuccinic anhydride (OSA). Treatments with OSA at 3, 5, and 10% resulted in starch derivatives with 0.016, 0.033, and 0.070 degrees of substitution (DS), respectively. Thermovisco properties of the derivatives were investigated by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and rapid visco analysis (RVA). Water content in the sample was found to have a significant effect on the characteristics of the DSC endotherm. Pasting properties of the OSA-starch and the effect of pH and salt on the RVA profiles were also studied. In general, with increased OSA-modification, the starch derivatives swelled and gelatinized at lower temperatures to achieve higher viscosities. Specifically, based on DSC analysis at 80% water, the peak temperature of gelatinization decreased from 68.5 to 63.2 degrees C as the OSA modification increased in DS from 0 (intact starch) to 0.070. On the other hand, RVA results indicate that, for samples undergoing similar increase in OSA modification, the pasting temperature decreased from 88.7 to 51.5 degrees C and the peak viscosity increased from 668 to 6822 cP.
12653607	Dipylidium caninum, the dog tapeworm, is a cosmopolitan parasite of dogs and cats and occasionally causes human infection in the United States. Diagnosis is made by observing the characteristic rice grain-like proglottids in stool specimens and the pathognomonic egg packets in the gravid uterus in histologic sections of the parasite. There have been few reported cases of human infection with this parasite, and very little information on the pathology of this zoonotic disease is available in the English language. This report of a case of D caninum infection in a 6-month-old infant highlights the diagnostic features of this disease. To our knowledge, this is the first case to be reported in the American pathology literature during the last 36 years (MEDLINE database, 1966-2002).
12654034	Photoinhibition and acclimation of photosynthesis in rice plants grown under N-sufficient (NS) and N-deficient (ND) field conditions were investigated during the tropical wet (WS) and dry (DS) seasons in the Philippines. Diurnal patterns of CO2 assimilation were examined. There was a transient peak in CO2 assimilation in the leaves of the NS plants in the early morning during the DS and the WS, which was not seen in the ND plants in either season. ND leaves had lower Ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) contents and lower chlorophyll contents. A lowered quantum yield of photosystem II (phiPSII) was observed in the ND plants at an intermediate irradiance though no differences between N treatments were seen at high irradiance. Analysis of carotenoids indicated a small increase in the de-epoxidation state of the xanthophyll cycle (DES) at mid-day in the ND leaves compared to NS. Photoinhibition was greater in ND leaves when incident mid-day irradiance was increased by altering the leaf angle. Although Rubisco contents were lower in ND plants, photosynthesis in situ did not decline proportionally. For NS plants, Chlorophyll content, but not Rubisco content, was season-dependent and results are discussed in terms of the interaction between irradiance use and N content of rice leaves.
12654934	We studied the dynamics of hopi, Retrosat1, and RIRE3, three gypsy-like long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons, in Oryza sativa L. genome. For each family, we assessed the phenetic relationships of the copies and estimated the date of insertion of the complete copies through the evaluation of their LTR divergence. We show that within each family, distinct phenetic groups have inserted at significantly different times, within the past 5 Myr and that two major amplification events may have occurred during this period. We show that solo-LTR formation through homologous unequal recombination has occurred in rice within the past 5 Myr for the three elements. We thus propose an increase/decrease model for rice genome evolution, in which both amplification and recombination processes drive variations in genome size.
12656225	A study on the modification of rice husk by various carboxylic acids showed that tartaric acid modified rice husk (TARH) had the highest binding capacities for Cu and Pb. The carboxyl groups on the surface of the modified rice husk were primarily responsible for the sorption of metal ions. A series of batch experiments using TARH as the sorbent for the removal of Cu and Pb showed that the sorption process was pH dependent, rapid and exothermic. The sorption process conformed to the Langmuir isotherm with maximum sorption capacities of 29 and 108 mg/g at 27 +/- 2 degrees C for Cu and Pb, respectively. The uptake increased with agitation rate. Decrease in sorbent particle size led to an increase in the sorption of metal ions and this could be explained by an increase in surface area and hence binding sites. Metal uptake was reduced in the presence of competitive cations and chelators. The affinity of TARH for Pb is greater than Cu.
12657298	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) grain quality is affected by the environmental temperature it experiences. To investigate the physiological molecular mechanisms of the effect of high temperatures on rice grain, a non-waxy indica rice was grown under two temperature conditions, (29/35 degrees C) and (22/28 degrees C), during the ripening stage in two phytotrons. The activities and gene expression of key enzymes for the biosynthesis of amylose and amylopectin were examined. The activity and expression levels of soluble endosperm starch synthase I were higher at 29/35 degrees C than that at 22/28 degrees C. In contrast, the activities and expression levels of the rice branching enzyme1, the branching enzyme3 and the granule bound starch synthase of the endosperm were lower at 29/35 degrees C than those at 22/28 degrees C. These results suggest that the decreased activity of starch branching enzyme reduces the branching frequency of the branches of amylopectin, which results in the increased amount of long chains of amylopectin of endosperm in rice grain at high temperature.
12657636	alpha-Galactosidases catalyze the hydrolysis of alpha-1,6-linked galactosyl residues from galacto-oligosaccharides and polymeric galacto-(gluco)mannans. The crystal structure of rice alpha-galactosidase has been determined at 1.5A resolution using the multiple isomorphous replacement method. The structure consisted of a catalytic domain and a C-terminal domain and was essentially the same as that of alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase, which is the same member of glycosyl hydrolase family 27. The catalytic domain had a (beta/alpha)8-barrel structure, and the C-terminal domain was made up of eight beta-strands containing a Greek key motif. The structure was solved as a complex with d-galactose, providing a mode of substrate binding in detail. The d-galactose molecule was found bound in the active site pocket on the C-terminal side of the central beta-barrel of the catalytic domain. The d-galactose molecule consisted of a mixture of two anomers present in a ratio equal to their natural abundance. Structural comparisons of rice alpha-galactosidase with chicken alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase provided further understanding of the substrate recognition mechanism in these enzymes.
12658122	The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) sponsored a May 2002 workshop on gene-environment interaction (G x E) research to identify potential roadblocks to further research and to propose solutions to those roadblocks, to optimize investigative opportunities and multidisciplinary or multi-institution collaborations, and to explore ways that NIAAA can facilitate G x E studies. Sessions included panels on animal models; phenotypes; genetic findings in humans; study designs and analytical methods; and assessment of environmental risk. Key among the identified challenges to progress in G x E research were issues of study design and sampling strategies; logistic and methodological costs and constraints; availability and understanding of data analysis techniques; potential stigmatization of study populations; and organizational/bureaucratic structures that are inadequate to address the unique needs of large-scale, multicenter, longitudinal projects. Participants proposed a series of recommendations to address these issues. Session coordinators included: Gayle Boyd, Kendall Bryant, Page Chiapella, Vivian Faden, David Goldman, and Antonio Noronha. Session participants included: Laura Almasy, Henri Begleiter, Raul Caetano, Bruce Dudek, Mary Dufour, Cindy Ehlers, Mary-Anne Enoch, Joel Gelernter, David Goldman, Bridget Grant, Lorraine Gunzerath, Deborah Hasin, Andrew Heath, Victor Hesselbrock, J. Dee Higley, Shirley Hill, Kerry Jang, Raynard S. Kington, Rick Kittles, George Koob, Kenneth Leonard, Ting-Kai Li, Jeffrey Long, William McBride, Matthew McGue, Kathleen Merikangas, Tamara Phillips, Bernice Porjesz, Carol Prescott, Theodore Reich, John Rice, Richard Rose, Charmaine Royal, Arnold Sameroff, Marc Schuckit, Kenneth Sher, Renee Sieving, Robert Taylor, Michael Windle, and Robert Zucker.
1265821	The possible role of pigs as arbovirus maintenance hosts and their importance as amplifier hosts was studied. Blood samples from 464 pigs of all ages collected in 1962 and 1964 were tested against 10 arboviruses. Antibodies to Japanese encephalitis and Getah viruses were particularly prevalent and their calculated monthly infection rates were 19-5% and 13-3% respectively. In 1969, 447 pigs were bled monthly throughout the year and the infection rates for Japanese encephalitis virus were calculated in pigs during the first year of life. Infection rates were not uniform throughout the year; the rate increases as the pig grew older and there was a marked seasonal increase in the infection rate in the period from November to January. This coincided with the seasonal major population peak of Culex tritaeniorhynchus following intense breeding of this mosquito prior to rice planting. It is suggested that, in Sarawak, the pig acts as a maintenance host of Japanese encephalitis in a cycle involving C. gelidus mosquitoes and also acts as an important amplifier host towards the end of the year in a cycle involving C. tritaeniorhynchus. It is further suggested that Getah virus is maintained in a similar cycle between C. tritaeniorhynchus and pigs.
12661768	We have screened a total of 5,500 T-DNA tagging rice lines in which beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene sequence was randomly inserted as a transgene into the plant genome. Histochemical GUS assays were carried out to select the T-DNA tagging rice lines that show its expression in anther. Of the tagging lines screened, three lines were found to express GUS specifically in the anther that is about 0.05%. Microscopic observation of the anther-expressed lines showed specific expression patterns of GUS in the anther, either gametophytic or sporophytic specificities. Southern blot analysis revealed that the integration copy number of the transgene was 2.3 in average. The detailed expression patterns were analyzed and discussed.
12662304	Sulfur amino acid composition is an important determinant of seed protein quality. A chimeric gene encoding sunflower seed albumin (SSA), one of the most sulfur-rich seed storage proteins identified so far, was introduced into rice (Oryza sativa) in order to modify cysteine and methionine content of the seed. Analysis of a transgenic line expressing SSA at approximately 7% of total seed protein revealed that the mature grain showed little change in the total sulfur amino acid content compared to the parental genotype. This result indicated that the transgenic rice grain was unable to respond to the added demand for cysteine and methionine imposed by the production of SSA. Analysis of the protein composition of the transgenic grain showed changes in the relative levels of the major seed storage proteins, as well as some non-storage proteins, compared to non-transgenic controls. Changes observed at the protein level were concomitant with differences in mRNA accumulation but not always with the level of transcription. The limited sulfur reserves appeared to be re-allocated from endogenous proteins to the new sulfur sink in the transgenic grain. We hypothesize that this response is mediated by a signal transduction pathway that normally modulates seed storage protein composition in response to environmental fluctuations in sulfur availability, via both transcriptional and post-transcriptional control of gene expression.
12662370	To determine whether there are differences in small bowel bacterial overgrowth (SBBO) and rice digestion between healthy and disabled older adults and to estimate the influence of physical activity on these nutritional statuses. Fifteen disabled adults who commute to a day-care centre and 11 healthy older adults participated in this study. SBBO and rice absorption were judged using a breath hydrogen test. Physical activity was estimated using a pedometer. The average number of steps taken per day by the disabled was 1056 +/- 243, which was statistically lower than that of the healthy, 6904 +/- 782 (P < 0.001). No SBBO-positive subject was seen in the healthy group, whereas five (33.3%) of 15 disabled older adults were SBBO-positive. After ingesting glucose solution, the triangle up H2 of disabled subjects was higher than that of the healthy subjects (7.6 +/- 2.7 versus 0.5 +/- 0.3 p.p.m., P < 0.05). Rice malabsorption was seen in one (9.1%) of 11 in the healthy and two (14.3%) of 14 in the disabled groups, which was not statistically significant. Disabled older people who have a physically inactive lifestyle are at risk of SBBO, probably because of a reduction in their intestinal motility. SBBO has no influence on absorption of rice, and some older adults, independent of physical condition, can not absorb rice adequately.
12663187	The province of Guizhou in Southwestern China is currently one of the world's most important mercury production areas. Emissions of mercury from the province to the global atmosphere have been estimated to be approximately 12% of the world total anthropogenic emissions. The main objective of this study was to assess the level of contamination with Hg in two geographical areas of Guizhou province. Mercury pollution in the areas concerned originates from mercury mining and ore processing in the area of Wanshan, while in the area of Quingzhen mercury pollution originates from the chemical industry discharging Hg through wastewaters and emissions to the atmosphere due to coal burning for electricity production. The results of this study confirmed high contamination with Hg in soil, sediments and rice in the Hg mining area in Wanshan. High levels of Hg in soil and rice were also found in the vicinity of the chemical plant in Quingzhen. The concentrations of Hg decreased with distance from the main sources of pollution considerably. The general conclusion is that Hg contamination in Wanshan is geographically more widespread, due to deposition and scavenging of Hg from contaminated air and deposition on land. In Quingzhen Hg contamination of soil is very high close to the chemical plant but the levels reach background concentrations at a distance of several km. Even though the major source of Hg in both areas is inorganic Hg, it was observed that active transformation of inorganic Hg to organic Hg species (MeHg) takes place in water, sediments and soils. The concentration of Hg in rice grains can reach up to 569 microg/kg of total Hg of which 145 microg/kg was in MeHg form. The percentage of Hg as MeHg varied from 5 to 83%. The concentrations of selenium can reach up to 16 mg/kg in soil and up to 1 mg/g in rice. A correlation exists between the concentration of Se in soil and rice, indicating that a portion of Se is bioavailable to plants. No correlation between Hg and Se in rice was found. Exposure of the local population to Hg may occur due to inhalation of Hg present in air (in particular in Hg mining area) and consumption of Hg contaminated food (in particular rice and fish) and water. Comparison of intake through these different routes showed that the values of Hg considerably exceed the USA EPA Reference Concentration (RfC) for chronic Hg exposure (RfC is 0.0004 mg/m(3)) close to the emission sources. Intake of Hg through food consumption, particularly rice and fish, is also an important route of Hg exposure in study area. In general, it can be concluded that the population mostly at risk is located in the vicinity of smelting facilities, mining activities and close to the waste disposal sites in the wider area of Wanshan. In order to assess the real level of contamination in the local population, it is recommended that biomonitoring should be performed, including Hg and MeHg measurements in hair, blood and urine samples.
12663992	Melioidosis, an infectious disease caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, an aerobic gram-negative bacillus, is normally transmitted through skin wounds and contact with infected human beings and animals. Its primary source is rice paddy soil and stagnant water. Melioidosis manifesting as an arterial mycotic aneurysm is rare, and, to our knowledge, infected true and false aneurysms of the iliac artery have never been reported. We report the case of a patient without contact with the normal sources of infection in whom an iliac mycotic aneurysm was caused by relapsing melioidosis and treated with an extra-anatomic bypass graft.
1266414	One blue-type cheese starter and 11 isolates of P. roqueforti from different foodstuffs were tested for the production of PR-toxin. 3 strains were able to produce the toxin on rice at 15 degrees C and sometimes at 30 degrees C. The toxin quantities detected were 310-960 ppb. The starter culture didn't produce any PR-toxin. The investigations with P. roqueforti NRRL 849 showed a toxin-production in the temperature range of 15-30 degrees C, with an optimum at 15 degrees C, whereas 25 degrees C was the optimum for growth. PR-toxin was determined by thin-layer-chromatography and in doubtful cases by mass-spectrometry.
12664980	Wavelength-dependent induction of a mycosporine-like amino acid (MAA) was studied in a nitrogen-fixing rice-field cyanobacterium, Nostoc commune. HPLC studies showed the presence of shinorine, a bisubstituted MAA containing both glycine and serine groups and having an absorption maximum at 334 nm. Exposure of cultures to simulated solar radiation in combination with various cut-off filters (WG 280, 295, 305, 320, 335, 345, GG 400, 420, 455, 475, OG 515, 530, 570, RG 645, 665; all Schott filter series) clearly indicated that MAAs were induced by UV-B radiation, while UV-A and PAR had very little effect on MAA induction in this organism. The ratio of the absorption at 334 nm (shinorine) to 665 nm (chlorophyll a) and the derived action spectrum also revealed the induction of MAAs to be UV-B dependent with a prominent peak at 290 nm and a second small peak at 310 nm. Various concentrations (50-300 mM) of NaCl were used to test whether another common stress factor, such as osmotic stress, also induces MAAs, as has been reported for other cyanobacterial species. The results indicate that cells grown at high concentration of NaCl but without UV-B did not show any MAA induction. In order to elucidate the possible photoreceptors, the effects of various inhibitors/quenchers on the induction of MAAs were studied. There was a marked reduction in the amount of MAA when the cells were irradiated with UV-B in the presence of inhibitors of the shikimate pathway (glyphosate, 1 mM), photosynthesis [3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea, 20 microM], protein synthesis (chloramphenicol, 25 microg ml(-1)), pterin synthesis (N-acetylserotonin, 5 mM, and 2,4-diamino-6-hydroxypyrimidine, 5 mM) and a quencher of the excited state of flavins and pterins (phenylacetic acid, 1 mM).
12665136	Two dogs developed alarming tremorgenic nervous stimulation shortly after ingesting discarded rice that had been forgotten in a refrigerator for an undetermined period and that was covered with a grey-green mould. Both dogs exhibited vomition followed by slight salivation, tremors and ataxia and 1 showed such severe agitation and seizures that it necessitated anaesthesia with thiopentone followed, on recovery, by xylazine. The other dog was only sedated with xylazine. They made an uneventful recovery. The rice vomitus yielded a pure culture of Penicillium crustosum. On chemical analysis it was negative for organochlorine, organophosphor and carbamate insecticides, as well as for strychnine, but contained 2.6 microg/g of the mycotoxins penitrem A as well as 34 microg/g of roquefortine as determined by LC-MS and confirmed by MS-MS. This is the 1st South African case of naturally occurring penitrem A toxicosis and also the 1st case where quantification of the levels of mycotoxins in dog vomitus is reported. The tremorgenicity of roquefortine and its contribution towards this syndrome, is questioned.
12666787	Rice husks, coffee bean skins, sugar cane bagasse, maize cobs, saw dust and fine charcoal dust were evaluated as filters for the removal of heavy metals (Cu and Zn) from the waste water of swine raising installations. The specific mass, pH and the sum of bases and removable acids were determined to characterize each of the filter materials. Each filtering material was placed in a 100 mm diameter, 600 mm long, PVC column to a height of 500 mm under 12,500 N m(-2) of compression. Chemical and physical analyses were determined on effluent samples collected for each 1.5 l up to a total of 15 l. The organic materials reduced the concentration of sediment solids (> 90%), total solids (up to 33%) and Cu (up to 43.6%) of the inffluent but had little or no effect on Zn concentration.
12666841	We investigated the effect of solution pH on the adsorption on silica of a mixture radionuclides 83Rb, 85Sr, 54Mn, 65Zn, 88Y, and 75Se generated from irradiation of Ag in a 135-MeV/nucleon 12C beam accelerated by the RIKEN Ring Cyclotron and 137Cs obtained commercially. Then, we related these findings to their uptake by a rice plant (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari) from a silica-multitracer solution at pH 4.3 +/- 0.2 and at 5.3 +/- 0.2. To evaluate both adsorption and uptake, precisely we used a multitracer technique that simultaneously tracked the movements of all of the radionuclides. There was an increase in the uptake of Rb, Cs, Sr, Mn, and Zn by the rice plants with the increase in pH from 4.3 to 5.3. By contrast, the uptake of Y and Se was less at the higher pH. Our findings suggest that the uptake of these elements is governed by their transport systems on the plasma membrane and by their affinity to silica, both of which are regulated by H+ concentration.
12667864	Several more- or less-elaborated rice genome sequences have been produced recently using different strategies. It has become possible to compare them and to unravel the major features of the rice genome in terms of nucleotide composition, repeats, gene content and variability. It has also become possible to compare the rice and Arabidopsis genomes and to evaluate rice as a model genome.
12667865	Several versions of the rice genome were published in 2002, providing a first overview of the genome content of this model monocot. At the same time, the genome of the model dicot, Arabidopsis thaliana, reached a new level of annotation as thousands of full-length cDNA sequences were integrated with the genome sequence.
12667866	Huge advances in plant biology are possible now that we have the complete genome sequences of several flowering plants. Now, genomes can be comprehensively compared and map-based cloning can be performed more easily. Association study is emerging as a powerful method for the functional identification of genes and molecular genetics has begun to reveal the basis of plant diversity. Taking the flowering pathways as an example, we discuss the potential of several approaches to comparative biology.
12667867	Comparison of partially sequenced cereal genomes suggests a mosaic structure consisting of recombinationally active gene-rich islands that are separated by blocks of high-copy DNA. Annotation of the whole rice genome suggests that most, but not all, cereal genes are present within the rice genome and that the high number of reported genes in this genome is probably due to duplications. Within the cereals, macrocolinearity is conserved but, at the level of individual genes, microcolinearity is frequently disrupted. Preliminary evidence from limited comparative analysis of sequenced orthologous genomic segments suggests that local gene amplification and translocation within a plant genome may be linked in some cases.
12667868	Small segments of rice genome sequence have been compared with that of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and with several closer relatives, including the cereals maize, rice, sorghum, barley and wheat. The rice genome is relatively stable relative to those of other grasses. Nevertheless, comparisons with other cereals have demonstrated that the DNA between cereal genes is highly variable and evolves rapidly. Genic regions have undergone many more small rearrangements than have been revealed by recombinational mapping studies. Tandem gene duplication/deletion is particularly common, but other types of deletions, inversions and translocations also occur. The many thousands of small genic rearrangements within the rice genome complicate but do not negate its use as a model for larger cereal genomes.
12667869	Genome-wide comparative analysis of the DNA sequences of two major cultivated rice subspecies, Oryza sativa L. ssp indica and Oryza sativa L. ssp japonica, have revealed their extensive microcolinearity in gene order and content. However, deviations from colinearity are frequent owing to insertions or deletions. Intraspecific sequence polymorphisms commonly occur in both coding and non-coding regions. These variations often affect gene structures and may contribute to intraspecific phenotypic adaptations.
12667870	The pan-tropical wild relatives of rice grow in a wide variety of habitats: forests, savanna, mountainsides, rivers and lakes. The completion of the sequencing of the rice nuclear and cytoplasmic genomes affords an opportunity to widen our understanding of the genomes of the genus Oryza. Research on the Oryza genus has begun to help to answer questions related to domestication, speciation, polyploidy and ecological adaptation that cannot be answered by studying rice alone. The wild relatives of rice have furnished genes for the hybrid rice revolution, and other genes from Oryza species with major impact on rice yields and sustainable rice production are likely to be found. Care is needed, however, when using wild relatives of rice in experiments and in interpreting the results of these experiments. Careful checking of species identity, maintenance of herbarium specimens and recording of Genbank accession numbers of material used in experiments should be standard procedure when studying wild relatives of rice.
12667872	The Arabidopsis genome (about 130 Mbp) has been completely sequenced; whereas a draft sequence of the rice genome (about 430 Mbp) is now available and the sequencing of this genome will be completed in the near future. The much larger genomes of several important crop species, such as wheat (about 16,000 Mbp) or maize (about 2500 Mbp), may not be fully sequenced with current technology. Instead, sequencing-analysis strategies are being developed to obtain sequencing and mapping information selectively for the genic fraction (gene space) of complex plant genomes.
12667873	The mechanisms and frequencies of various types of homologous recombination (HR) have been studied in plants for several years. However, the application of techniques involving HR for precise genome modification is still not routine. The low frequency of HR remains the major obstacle but recent progress in gene targeting in Arabidopsis and rice, as well as accumulating knowledge on the regulation of recombination levels, is an encouraging sign of the further development of HR-based approaches for genome engineering in plants.
12668273	Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) with rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) causes the destructive tungro disease of rice. In order to ascertain the molecular variability of RTBV in India, primers were designed to amplify a polymorphic DNA fragment of the virus. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis on a number of field isolates indicated mixed infections and molecular heterogeneity in the viral genome.
12668768	In this paper we report the identification, cloning and expression analysis of four putative sucrose transporter (SUT) genes from rice, designated OsSUT2, 3, 4 and 5. Three of the four genes were identified through extensive searches of the recently published draft sequence of the rice genome. Along with the previously reported OsSUT1 we propose that these five genes comprise the rice SUT gene family. Complementary DNA clones were isolated for the four newly identified genes. The deduced proteins of all five SUT genes were predicted to contain 12 membrane-spanning helices and a domain highly conserved throughout all known plant SUTs, suggesting the four additional OsSUT genes encode functional SUTs. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis was performed in order to investigate the expression pattern of each member of the SUT family in rice. A differing but overlapping expression pattern was observed for each member of the SUT family at different stages through plant development. These results, together with the structural variations apparent from the deduced protein sequences, suggest that the five SUTs possess diverse roles in both sink and source tissues. We also discuss the classification and evolution of the rice SUT gene family, using a comparison of the gene structures and deduced amino acid sequences with other known plant SUT genes.
12668770	A mutant showing a long coleoptile phenotype under white light was isolated from gamma-ray-mutagenized rice (cv. Nihonmasari). This mutant, named cpm1 (coleoptile photomorphogenesis 1), has been found to be impaired in phytochrome-mediated inhibition of coleoptile growth. Another outstanding feature of the mutant is impaired anthesis. Under red light (R), cpm1 coleoptiles elongate at a higher rate than wild-type (WT) coleoptiles, owing to substantially reduced responsiveness to R. This phenotype occurs in an age-dependent manner, and cpm1 coleoptiles become responsive to R as they elongate. The impairment was found in both very-low-fluence and low-fluence responses. Mutant coleoptiles also elongate longer than WT coleoptiles in darkness, but in this case the long coleoptile results from an extended elongation period. The cpm1 mutation does not affect the following phytochrome responses: the growth stimulation in submerged coleoptiles (uncovered in this study), potentiation of greening, and down-regulation of PHYA transcription. The cpm1 mutation does not significantly affect the level of spectroscopically detectable phytochrome and the transcription levels of three phytochrome genes (PHYA-C). It is concluded that the CPM1 gene is involved in the phytochrome signal transduction that specifically leads to growth inhibition. Some aspects of rice seedling photomorphogenesis are discussed in relation to the results obtained.
12669200	A differentially expressed OsIM1 gene was isolated from rice salt-tolerant mutant M-20 by differential display. Sequence analysis revealed that the amino-acid sequence of OsIM1 showed 66% and 62% identity with PTOX from tomato (Capsicum annuum) and AtIM from Arabidopsis, both of which encoded chloroplast-orientated terminal oxidase. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence of the OsIM1 cDNA with its genomic sequence revealed that OsIM1 genomic DNA contained nine exons and eight introns. A pseudo-transcript (OsIM2), which probably resulted from the abnormal splicing of the OsIM1 pre-mRNA, was also identified. Southern-blot analysis showed that there existed only one copy of the OsIM1 gene in the rice genome. RFLP analysis located it on rice chromosome 3. The Northern blot revealed that OsIM1 was up-regulated by NaCl and ABA treatment. RT-PCR analysis indicated that OsIM1 and OsIM2 co-existed in the OsIM transcript pool, and the ratio of OsIM1/ OsIM2 was differentially regulated by salt stress in the salt-sensitive variety and the salt-tolerant varieties.
12669798	Sequence conservation among resistance genes (R genes) was exploited to identify 47 R gene analogues (RGAs) from sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.). Using degenerate primers, 11 RGAs were amplified from genomic DNA and 7 from leaf or beet cDNA. Twenty-nine were selected from an EST sequencing program. Twenty-one RGAs contained structures similar to the nucleotide binding site (NBS)--leucine rich repeat (LRR) domain, a motif commonly found in several R genes. Among the remaining RGAs, 19 revealed similarity to the serine (threonine) protein kinase domain of R genes, 4 showed features related to the LRR region of the rice disease resistance gene Xa21, 1 RGA resembled the sugar beet nematode resistance gene Hs1pro-1, and 2 had homologies to other gene products associated with disease resistance. For 20 EST-derived RGAs, transcript levels were compared in leaf and root tissue revealing organ-specific transcription in 7 cases. Thirty-three RGAs were spread over all nine sugar beet chromosomes, except for a cluster of nine closely linked RGAs on chromosome 7. The analysis of linkage between RGAs and loci for rhizomania and Cercospora resistance identified alleles associated with resistance in both cases.
12670143	A simple, environmentally friendly, cost-effective, and sensitive method was developed for the determination of trace cadmium in rice by flow injection (FI) on-line precipitation preconcentration coupled with flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS). The precipitation preconcentration of trace cadmium was achieved by on-line merging of the sample and ammonia solutions. The resultant precipitates were on-line collected by a knotted reactor (KR) without filtration. A solution of 1 mol L(-1) HNO(3) was employed to dissolve the collected precipitates and to deliver the analyte into the FAAS system for on-line detection. Preconcentration at a sample loading flow rate of 3.8 mL min(-1) for 35 s gave an enhancement factor of 44 and a detection limit (3sigma) of 0.002 microg g(-1) for the solid sample with a sample throughput of 72 h(-1). The precision (RSD, n = 11) was 2.0% at the 4.0 microg L(-1) level. The concentration of cadmium in a certified reference material (GBW 08511, rice flour) by the developed method using simple aqueous standards for calibration was in good agreement with the certified value. The proposed method was also successfully applied to the determination of trace cadmium in locally collected rice samples.
12670171	The physical properties of octenyl succinic anhydride (OSA) starches prepared from rice, wheat, and potato starches were studied. Rice and wheat OSA starches had significantly higher peak viscosity (PV), hot paste viscosity (HPV), and cool paste viscosity (CPV), but potato OSA starch had only significantly higher CPV, relative to the native starch. The gel hardness was higher with lower degree of substitution (DS) but lower with higher DS OSA compared to native starch. The swelling volumes (SV) of rice and wheat OSA starches were significantly higher compared to native starch, but the SV of potato OSA starch was slightly lower at high DS. The gelatinization temperature (GT) of rice OSA starches was sharply lower at low DS; for wheat OSA starch it was slightly lower even at high DS, but potato OSA starches had higher GT than the native starch. The enthalpy of all the OSA starches decreased gradually with increased DS. This study showed that the magnitude of changes in physical properties of OSA-modified starches depends not only on their DS but also on the botanical origin of the native starches.
12670173	Rice breeders frequently use rapid visco analysis (RVA) as in index of rice quality. Potentially, viscosity curves could also be used to predict the sensory properties of a sample of rice or the processing properties of rice when used as an ingredient. The aim of this study is to determine the contribution of the main components of rice flour-starch and protein polymers and lipids-to the viscosity curve, accounting for biological and rheological contributions, and interactions with water. By deconstructing the rice flour, resistance to shear is generally the primary factor that affects rheological processes in the RVA, often masking the physical processes of cooking. Thus, higher concentrations of water reveal more about the true biological and physical processes of the transition from a powder to paste. Proteins contribute to peak height, offset thixotropy, and contribute to the final viscosity. Starch-lipid complexes can mask differences in the molecular structures of amylose and amylopectin, and removing lipids alters the structure of the paste significantly, which consequently alters viscosity curves.
12670756	The objective of the present study is to examine whether rice is still a leading source of cadmium (Cd) burden among general populations in Japan. For this purpose, 10 prefectures were selected from all over Japan (including the northern- and southern-most Hokkaido and Okinawa prefecture, respectively). Cadmium levels in urine of never-smoking women (corrected for creatinine; Cd-Ucr) were compared with the rice- and wheat product-based Cd intake, which were estimated from Cd contents in rice and wheat (in the forms of bread, noodle and flour) consumed by residents in the areas, and per-capita daily consumption of rice and wheat. Stepwise multiple regression analysis taking Cd-Ucr as a dependent variable and rice- or wheat product-based Cd intakes as independent variables showed that rice was the most influential and almost exclusive variable with a partial correlation coefficient of 0.770-0.832, explaining 59-69% of total variation in Cd-Ucr. The effects of other sources including wheat were essentially negligible.
12670769	Microbial reduction of selenate [Se(VI)] to elemental selenium [Se(0)] is a useful technique for removing Se from agricultural drainage water. A series of batch experiments were conducted in the laboratory to determine the effects of pH (5-10), NO(3)(-) (100-500 mg/l), and SO(4)(2-) (0-5000 mg/l) on the removal of Se(VI) from drainage water with 1000 microg/l of Se(VI) and different amounts (1-4 g) of rice straw. Results showed that rice straw was very effective in creating a reducing environment (Eh=-205 to -355 mV) in the first 3 days of the pH-effect experiments. The optimum conditions for rapid Se(VI) removal from drainage water were a pH range of 6-9, high amounts of SO(4)(2-) (1000-5000 mg/l), low amounts of NO(3)(-) (100 mg/l) and high amounts of rice straw (3-4 g). Under these conditions, it took 5-7 days to reduce 93-95% of the added Se(VI) to Se(0). This study indicates that rice straw may be an inexpensive reducing agent to remediate Se(VI)-dominant San Joaquin Valley drainage water in the field.
12671120	Infantile food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) is a severe, cell-mediated gastrointestinal food hypersensitivity typically provoked by cow's milk or soy. Solid foods are rarely considered a cause. To describe the clinical characteristics and natural history of FPIES provoked by solid foods. Patients with FPIES induced by solid foods were identified and their clinical course compared with a control group with FPIES caused by cow's milk and/or soy evaluated over the same time period. Fourteen infants with FPIES caused by grains (rice, oat, and barley), vegetables (sweet potato, squash, string beans, peas), or poultry (chicken and turkey) were identified. Symptoms were typical of classical FPIES with delayed (median: 2 hours) onset of vomiting, diarrhea, and lethargy/dehydration. Eleven infants (78%) reacted to >1 food protein, including 7 (50%) that reacted to >1 grain. Nine (64%) of all patients with solid food-FPIES also had cow's milk and/or soy-FPIES. Initial presentation was severe in 79% of the patients, prompting sepsis evaluations (57%) and hospitalization (64%) for dehydration or shock. The diagnosis of FPIES was delayed, after a median of 2 reactions (range: 2-5). Thirty patients with typical cow's milk- and/or soy-FPIES were identified for comparison. Overall, 48% of the 44 infants with FPIES were reactive to >1 food protein, and the risk for multiple food hypersensitivity approached 80% in the infants with solid food or soy-induced FPIES. None of the patients developed FPIES to maternally ingested foods while breastfeeding unless the causal food was fed directly to the infant. Cereals, vegetables, and poultry meats, typically regarded as of low allergenic potential, must be considered in the evaluation of FPIES, particularly in infants previously diagnosed with FPIES to cow's milk or soy, and as an initial cause in patients who have been exclusively breastfed. Infants with FPIES are at risk for multiple dietary protein hypersensitivities during an apparent period of immunologic susceptibility. Pediatricians should consider FPIES in the differential diagnosis of shock and sepsis.
12671749	Rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV) is a major virus disease of economic importance affecting rice in northern South America, Central America and the Caribbean. This is the first report of transgenic resistance to RHBV and the transformation of an indica rice variety from Latin America. Rice transformed with the RHBV nucleocapsid protein (N) gene had a significant reduction in disease development. Several reactions were observed that ranged from susceptible to completely resistant plants (immunity). The resistant reactions were characterized by the production of local lesions like a hypersensitive reaction or a recovery phenotype with the emergence of symptom-less new leaves. These transgenic RHBV-resistant rice lines expressed the N gene RNA at low levels that were below the detection limit by Northern blots and only resolved by RT-PCR. The nucleocapsid protein could not be detected in any of the transgenic plants either by Western or ELISA tests. These results suggest that the resistance encoded by the N gene in these plants appears to be mediated by RNA. When challenged with RHBV, the resistant transgenic lines showed a significant increased performance for important agronomic traits including the number of tillers, the number of grains per plant and the yield as compared to the susceptible control. Furthermore, upon inoculation some of the most-resistant transgenic lines showed agronomic traits similar to the uninoculated non-transgenic Cica 8 control. Using both agronomic traits and disease severity as criteria, several of the most-resistant lines were followed through the R(4) generation and demonstrated that the N gene and RHBV resistance was inherited in a stable manner. These transgenic rice lines could become a new genetic resource in developing RHBV-resistant cultivars.
12671757	Low temperature stress is common for rice grown in temperate regions and at high elevations in the tropics. The most senstive stage to this stress is booting, about 11 days before heading. Japonica cultivars are known to be more tolerant than indicas. We constructed a genetic map using 191 recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between a temperate japonica, M-202, and a tropical indica, IR50, in order to locate quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conferring cold tolerance. The map with a total length of 1,276.8 cM and an average density of one marker every 7.1 cM was developed from 181 loci produced by 175 microsatellite markers. Cold tolerance was measured as the degree of spikelet sterility of treated plants at a 12 degrees C temperature for 5 days in the growth chamber. QTLs on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 12 were identified to confer cold tolerance at the booting stage. The QTL contribution to the phenotypic variation ranged from 11 to 17%. The two QTLs with the highest contribution to variation, designated qCTB2a and qCTB3, were derived from the tolerant parent, M-202, each explaining approximately 17% of the phenotypic variance. Two of the eight QTLs for cold tolerance were contributed by IR50.
12673015	The application of brassinolide (BL) to the lamina joint region of rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Nipponbare) seedlings caused marked bending of laminae, and BL influenced rice root growth under intact conditions. A remarkable increase in lamina inclination at BL 1 microM and an evident increase in root elongation at BL 0.01 microM were observed compared with the control. A total of 786 and 508 proteins extracted from the lamina joint and root, respectively, were detected in images of two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with isoelectric focusing or immobilized pH gradient tube gel, and 21 proteins changed by BL treatment were analyzed using a gas-phase protein sequencer and mass spectrometer. Proteins related to photosynthesis and stress tolerance were mainly found in the lamina joint and root, respectively. Advanced degradation of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (EC 4.1.1.39) large subunit was caused by both BL and ethylene. Calmodulin, which decreased in roots treated with BL, increased as a result of ethephon treatment. Proteins that showed homology to glutathione S-transferase (EC 2.5.1.18) increased with BL application in both the lamina joint and root. The results suggest that the physiological functions of these proteins detected using powerful proteome analysis are implicated in rice lamina inclination and/or root elongation triggered by BL.
12674374	Supplementation of paraquat into the culture medium proved to be highly toxic for a blue-green alga Cylindrospermum sp. A concentration of 15 microg/ml proved algicidal for the test alga. Various concentrations (0.5 microg/ml - 15 microg/ml) of the herbicide affected the growth and reduced chlorophyll and phycocyanin contents of the alga. In addition, it inhibited differentiation of heterocysts and akinetes. The inhibition of algal growth was found to be partially relieved on addition of 500 microg/ml of glucose.
12674538	Macrocyclops distinctus, Megacyclops viridis, and Mesocyclops pehpeiensis, which are common in rice fields during the summer season in Nagasaki, Japan, showed variable potentialities as biological control agents of larval Aedes albopictus, Culex tritaeniorhynchus, and Anopheles minimus in the laboratory. Macrocyclops distinctus and M. viridis, the largest copepod species, had fewer eggs within an egg clutch in nature than the smallest species, M. pehpeiensis, which also had a lower developmental time for sexual maturation (based on the appearance of the 1st clutch). Longevity as well as fecundity were influenced by nutritional conditions and varied significantly between the species. All species had shorter life spans when starved, but resistance to starvation was more pronounced in the larger species. All the species had lower clutch production when starved. Also, although the frequency of clutch production was high in M. pehpeiensis (M. pehpeiensis produced a clutch every 2 days, whereas M. distinctus and M. viridis took on average almost 3 days), total clutch production was far higher in the larger species. The copepods fed readily on mosquito larvae, with M. distinctus and M. viridis killing fewer Ae. albopictus than M. pehpeiensis, which, however, killed fewer An. minimus. These copepods exhibited a similar and limited predation against Cx. tritaeniorhynchus. Results of our study support the contention that these copepods have the potential to be used as biological control agents of immature mosquitoes. Also, our results give useful information on colony maintenance and field introduction. In particular, releasing copepods with Paramecium as food could increase their survival in the habitat of the targeted pest.
12675429	The phenomenon of frequency and phase synchronization in stochastic systems requires a revision of concepts originally phrased in the context of purely deterministic systems. Various definitions of an instantaneous phase are presented and compared with each other with special attention paid to their robustness with respect to noise. We review the results of an analytic approach describing noise-induced phase synchronization in a thermal two-state system. In this context exact expressions for the mean frequency and the phase diffusivity are obtained that together determine the average length of locking episodes. A recently proposed method to quantify frequency synchronization in noisy potential systems is presented and exemplified by applying it to the periodically driven noisy harmonic oscillator. Since this method is based on a threshold crossing rate pioneered by Rice the related phase velocity is termed the Rice frequency. Finally, we discuss the relation between the phenomenon of stochastic resonance and noise-enhanced phase coherence by applying the developed concepts to the periodically driven bistable Kramers oscillator.
12675741	The study investigates the reactions of rice, wheat and maize to anoxia (plants without access to oxygen) and hypoxia (roots with very limited access to oxygen). We studied the adaptations of these intact crop plants because they are known to differ widely in their tolerance to oxygen deficiency. In hypoxia, there was an accumulation of sugars, especially in wheat and maize, although both flood-sensitive species significantly increased the activities of fermentative and glycolytic enzymes, clearly more than in rice. In rice, avoiding an oxygen limitation due to the effective aeration system (30% of root cross-sectional area) may have accounted for only a minor metabolic reaction to hypoxia. In anoxia, maize and wheat quickly lost viability and nearly all photosynthetic capacity, while most rice leaves stayed turgid and green, losing only 50% of the photosynthetic capacity. A strong metabolic arrest under anoxia was obvious for the sucrolytic, glycolytic and fermentative enzymes in all tested species, but was most pronounced in rice. Of the 14 enzymes studied, rice showed the lowest activity increase in hypoxia for 11 enzymes, and the strongest activity decrease in anoxia for 8 enzymes. However, rice was able even under anoxia to keep a 1/4 of the ATP level of the aerated control, while it was at the detection limit in maize and wheat. It appears that in anoxic rice, the switch to metabolic dormancy and maintenance of basic shoot meristems diminishes the needs for energy and substrate. Additionally, rice already has lower sugar demand under hypoxia, and sugar supply appears to be sustained under anoxia by a functioning anaerobic amylase and by the photosynthetically active shoot.
12675955	To study pregnant women's diet at food and nutrient levels and how these match recommendations; to describe how factors such as education level, economy and folk dietetics influence the women's food choice; and to give suggestions for the improvement of nutrition education in the existing antenatal care systems. Thirty pregnant women in the last trimester were interviewed three times using a 24-hour dietary recall with weighing of foods and recipes of dishes. Interviews regarding health, nutrition and socio-economic status, and measurements of weight and height of the women, were conducted. Rural parts of Salem District, Tamil Nadu, South India. The women's diet (without supplements) was insufficient in energy and all nutrients except fat, compared with the Indian recommendations. Aggravating low intakes of micronutrients were found which were reflected in low intakes of foods other than rice. Eating customs and economy appeared to influence the women's food choice negatively in relation to recommendations while factors such as education level, family type, pregnancy number and folk dietetics did not seem to have a negative effect. The amounts of foods recommended, especially green leafy vegetables, must be shown to the women. The nutrition advice given by all levels of health providers must be the same and based on cheap, local, commonly consumed foods.
12676506	Spawn running, pin head and fruit body formation, and mushroom yield of oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreatus) on waste paper supplemented with peat, chicken manure and husk rice (90+10; 80+20 w:w) were studied. The fastest spawn running (mycelia development) (15.8 days), pin head formation (21.4 days) and fruit body formation (25.6 days), and the highest yield (350.2 gr) were realized with the substrate composed of 20% rice husk in weight. In general, increasing the ratio of rice husk within the substrate accelerated spawn running, pin head and fruit body formation, and resulted in increased mushroom yields, while more peat and chicken manure had a negative effect on growing.
12676605	Chlornitrofen (CNP) was widely used in large quantities as a herbicide in rice paddy fields in Japan during 1965-1994. Recently, there has been concern that chemicals in the environment may disrupt the endocrine function of wildlife and humans, but little is known about the effect of CNP on endocrine function. We have developed reporter gene assays for human androgen receptor (hAR) and human estrogen receptor-alpha (hER alpha) using Chinese hamster ovary cells. Using this assay method, we measured CNP and its amino derivative (CNP-amino) for hAR and hER alpha agonist/antagonist activities, comparing them with several well-known AR antagonists or ER agonists. We found that CNP and CNP-amino have potent antiandrogenic activities as well as estrogenic activities. The order of their antiandrogenic activity was CNP > vinclozolin > o,p-DDT = p,p-DDE > CNP-amino, and the order of their estrogenic activity was o,p-DDT > CNP-amino > p,p-DDT > CNP. We investigated the binding ability of CNP and CNP-amino to hAR and hER alpha using a receptor competitive-binding assay. The order of their binding potencies to hAR was CNP > o,p-DDT = p,p-DDE = CNP-amino > vinclozolin, and that of their binding potencies to hER alpha was o,p-DDT > CNP-amino > p,p-DDT = CNP. These results suggest that both CNP and CNP-amino may act as endocrine disruptors via AR and ER alpha in humans and other animals. Our reporter gene assays are highly sensitive and specific and are suitable for screening AR and ER alpha agonist/antagonists among numerous environmental chemicals.
12677401	We investigated the potential of an improved Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation procedure of japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) for generating large numbers of T-DNA plants that are required for functional analysis of this model genome. Using a T-DNA construct bearing the hygromycin resistance (hpt), green fluorescent protein (gfp) and beta-glucuronidase (gusA) genes, each individually driven by a CaMV 35S promoter, we established a highly efficient seed-embryo callus transformation procedure that results both in a high frequency (75-95%) of co-cultured calli yielding resistant cell lines and the generation of multiple (10 to more than 20) resistant cell lines per co-cultured callus. Efficiencies ranged from four to ten independent transformants per co-cultivated callus in various japonica cultivars. We further analysed the T-DNA integration patterns within a population of more than 200 transgenic plants. In the three cultivars studied, 30-40% of the T(0) plants were found to have integrated a single T-DNA copy. Analyses of segregation for hygromycin resistance in T(1) progenies showed that 30-50% of the lines harbouring multiple T-DNA insertions exhibited hpt gene silencing, whereas only 10% of lines harbouring a single T-DNA insertion was prone to silencing. Most of the lines silenced for hpt also exhibited apparent silencing of the gus and gfp genes borne by the T-DNA. The genomic regions flanking the left border of T-DNA insertion points were recovered in 477 plants and sequenced. Adapter-ligation Polymerase chain reaction analysis proved to be an efficient and reliable method to identify these sequences. By homology search, 77 T-DNA insertion sites were localized on BAC/PAC rice Nipponbare sequences. The influence of the organization of T-DNA integration on subsequent identification of T-DNA insertion sites and gene expression detection systems is discussed.
12677405	The xa5 resistance gene from rice provides recessive, race-specific resistance to bacterial blight of rice caused by the pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae. A high-resolution genetic map of the chromosomal region surrounding xa5 was developed by placing 44 DNA markers on the distal end of rice chromosome 5. The basis for mapping was a PCR-based screening of 1,016 F(2) individuals derived from a cross between a near-isogenic line (NIL) and its corresponding recurrent parent to identify recombinants in the region. Recombinant F(2) individuals were progeny tested using F(3) families inoculated with the Philippine strain PXO 61 of bacterial blight pathogen. The xa5 gene was mapped to a 0.5-cM interval between the markers RS7 and RM611, which spanned an interval of approximately 70 kb and contained a total of 11 open reading frames. Sequence data for the locus was generated from an Indica (the IR24 isoline, IRBB21) BAC covering part of the region and compared to other overlapping Indica (cv 93-11) and Japonica (cv Nipponbare) sequences. Candidate-gene analysis revealed that a basal transcription factor (TFIIa), an ABC transporter, a tRNA synthase, a MAP kinase and a cysteine protease, as well as four unknown, hypothetical or putative proteins, are encoded at the locus and could be potential candidates for the resistance gene product. The mechanism by which these genes could provide recessive, race-specific resistance will be elucidated by map-based cloning of the xa5 gene.
12677408	Transgene integration, expression level and stability have been studied, across two generations, in a population of rice plants transformed using a new dual binary vector system: pGreen/pSoup. pGreen is a small Ti binary vector unable to replicate in Agrobacterium without the presence of another binary plasmid, pSoup, in the same strain. We engineered both pGreen and pSoup to contain each a different T-DNA. Transformation experiments were conducted using a pGreen vector containing the bar and gusA expression units (no transgene in pSoup) or with a pSoup vector containing an aphIV and gfp expression units (no transgene in pGreen). High plant transformation frequencies (up to 40%) were obtained using herbicide resistance (bar) or antibiotic resistance (aphIV) genes. Around 80% of the independently transformed plants expressed unselected reporter genes (gusA or gfp) present in the vectors. Backbone sequences transfer was frequent (45% of lines) and occurred often in multicopy lines. Around 15-20% of the rice plant lines contained a single T-DNA integration without backbone. Integration of additional transgene copies did not improve expression levels in either T(0) plants or T(1) progenies. Nearly all multicopy lines contained transgenes integrated at several loci in the plant genome, showing that T-DNAs from either pGreen or pSoup frequently integrated at unlinked loci. Precise determination of loci number required the analysis of transgene presence in progeny. Segregation of transgene phenotype was generally misleading and tended to underestimate the real number of transgenic loci. The contribution of this new dual-binary vector system to the development of high-throughput rice transformation systems and to the production of marker-free transgenic rice plants is discussed.
12678556	Rice is sensitive to high-temperature stress at almost all the stages of its growth and development. Considering the crucial role of heat shock protein 101 (Hsp 101) in imparting thermotolerance to cells, we introduced Arabidopsis thaliana hsp101 (Athsp101) cDNA into the Pusa basmati 1 cultivar of rice (Oryza sativa L.) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Stable integration and expression of the transgene into the rice genome was demonstrated by Southern, northern and western blot analyses. There appeared no adverse effect of over-expression of the transgene on overall growth and development of transformants. The genetic analysis of tested T1 lines showed that the transgene segregated in a Mendelian fashion. We compared the survival of T2 transgenic lines after exposure to different levels of high-temperature stress with the untransformed control plants. The transgenic rice lines showed significantly better growth performance in the recovery phase following the stress. This thermotolerance advantage appeared to be solely due to over-expression of Hsp101 as neither the expression of low-molecular-weight heat shock proteins (HSPs) nor of other members of Clp family proteins was altered in the transgenic rice. The production of high temperature tolerant transgenic rice cultivars would provide a stability advantage under supra-optimal temperature regime thereby improving its overall performance.
12679790	The Minnesota Children's Pesticide Exposure Study (MNCPES) provides exposure, environmental, and biologic data relating to multipathway exposures of children for four primary pesticides (chlorpyrifos, malathion, diazinon, and atrazine), 14 secondary pesticides, and 13 polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Monitoring was performed on a probability-based sample of 102 children aged 3-12 in Minneapolis/St. Paul and in a nearby rural area (Goodhue and Rice counties). This paper provides estimated distributions of this population's exposures and exposure-related measurements and examines associations among the various measures via rank (Spearman) correlations. In addition, it provides some aggregate and cumulative exposure estimates for pesticides, and compares the relative intakes from inhalation and dietary ingestion. Intakes for the four primary pesticides appeared to come principally from the ingestion rather than the inhalation route; this was clearly true for chlorpyrifos but was less certain for the other three primary pesticides because of their higher degree of nondetects. Solid food rather than beverages was clearly the main contributor to the ingestion intake. Despite the dominance of the ingestion route, the urinary metabolite of chlorpyrifos exhibited a stronger association with the air measurements than with the dietary measures. Personal-air samples exhibited strong rank correlations with indoor air samples for chlorpyrifos, malathion, and diazinon (0.81, 0.51, and 0.62, respectively), while personal-air atrazine levels correlated well with outdoor levels (0.69); personal-air diazinon levels also correlated well with outdoor levels (0.67). For the PAHs, many significant associations were evident among the various air samples and for the air samples with the dust samples, especially for those compounds with consistently high percent measurable values (particularly fluoranthene, phenanthrene, and pyrene).
12679871	The very high resistance to Rice yellow mottle virus observed in the two rice varieties Gigante (Oryza sativa) and Tog 5681 (O. glaberrima) is monogenic and recessive. Bulked segregant analysis was carried out to identify AFLP markers linked to the resistance gene. Mapping of PCR-specific markers, CAPS and microsatellite markers on 429 individuals of an IR64 x Gigante F(2) population pinpointed this resistance gene on the long arm of chromosome 4 in a 3.7-cM interval spanned by PCR markers. These markers also flanked the resistance gene of the O. glaberrima accession Tog 5681 and confirmed previous allelism tests. The rarity of this recessive natural resistance was in line with a resistance mechanism model based on point mutations of a host component required for cell-to-cell movement of the virus. Preliminary data on the genetic divergence between the two cultivated rice species in the vicinity of the resistance locus suggested that two different resistance alleles are present in Gigante and Tog 5681. A large set of recombinants is now available to envisage physical mapping and cloning of the gene.
12679953	To investigate epidemiology and pathogenic mite species of intestinal and urinary acariasis in individuals with different occupations. A total of 1994 individuals were tested in this study. History collection, skin prick test and pathogen identification were conducted. The mites were isolated from stool and urine samples by saturated saline flotation methods and sieving following centrifugation, respectively. Among the 1994 individuals examined, responses to the skin prick test of "+++", "++", "+","+/-" and "-" were observed at frequencies of 3.96 % (79), 3.21 % (64), 2.31 % (46), 1.25 % (25) and 89.27 % (1780), respectively. A total number of 161 (8.07 %) individuals were shown to carry mites, with 92 (4.61 %) positive only for stool samples, 37 (1.86 %) positive only for urine samples and 32 (1.60 %) for both. The positive rate of mites in stool samples was 6.22 % (124/1994), being 6.84 % (78/1140) for males and 5.39 % (46/854) for females. No gender difference was observed in this study (chi(2)=1.77, P>0.05). The mites from stool samples included Acarus siro, TyroPhagus putrescentiae, Dermatophagoides farinae, D. pteronyssinus, Glycyphagus domesticus, G. ornatus, Carpoglyphus lactis and Tarsonemus granaries. The positive rate of mites in urine samples was 3.46 % (69/1994). The positive rates for male and female subjects were found to be 3.95 % (45/1140) and 2.81 % (24/854) respectively, with no gender difference observed (chi(2)=1.89, P>0.05). Mites species in urine samples included Acarus siro, Tyrophagus putrescentiae, T. longior, Aleuroglyphus ovatus, Caloglyphus berlesei, C. mycophagus, Suidasia nesbitti, Lardoglyphus konoi, Glycyphagus domesticus, Carpoglyphus lactis, Lepidoglyphus destructor, Dermatophagoides farinae, D. pteronyssinus, Euroglyphus magnei, Caloglyphus hughesi, Tarsonemus granarus and T. hominis. The species of mites in stool and urine samples were consistent with those separated from working environment. A significant difference was found among the frequencies of mite infection in individuals with different occupations (chi(2)=82.55, P<0.001), with its frequencies in those working in medicinal herb storehouses, those in rice storehouse or mills, miners, railway workers, pupils and teachers being 15.89 % (68/428), 12.96 % (53/409), 3.28 % (18/549), 2.54 % (6/236), 5.10 % (13/255) and 2.56 % (3/117), respectively. The prevalence of human intestinal and urinary acariasis was not associated with gender, and these diseases are more frequently found in individuals working in medicinal herb, rice storehouses or mills and other sites with high density of mites. More attention should be paid to the mite prevention and labor protection for these high-risk groups.
12681519	Triticum aestivum endoxylanase inhibitors (TAXIs) are wheat proteins that inhibit family 11 endoxylanases commonly used in different (bio)technological processes. Here, we report on the identification of the TAXI-I gene which encodes a mature protein of 381 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 38.8 kDa. When expressed in Escherichia coli, the recombinant protein had the specificity and inhibitory activity of natural TAXI-I, providing conclusive evidence that the isolated gene encodes an endoxylanase inhibitor. Bioinformatical analysis indicated that no conserved domains nor motifs common to other known proteins are present. Sequence analysis revealed similarity with a glycoprotein of carrot and with gene families in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, all with unknown functions. Our data indicate that TAXI-I belongs to a newly identified class of plant proteins for which a molecular function as glycoside hydrolase inhibitor can now be suggested.
12682865	The study provides the first evidence of the presence and abundance of bacterial population that coupled ferric iron reduction to aromatic compounds degradation in tropical irrigated paddy soils in the Philippines. Culturable phenol/benzoate degrading iron-reducing bacteria was enumerated by the most probable number (MPN) counts using phenol or benzoate as sole carbon source, and ferric oxide [Fe(OH)(3)] as the sole electron acceptor. Population density of phenol degrading iron-reducing bacteria (P-IRB) in irrigated paddy soil ranged from 10(2) to 10(8)g(-1) dry soil, and increased with the progressive rice growth in rice cropping seasons; the study also revealed a significant rhizosphere effect on population of P-IRB. However, high enumeration of benzoate degrading iron-reducing bacteria (B-IRB) was obtained in all the tested soil samples averaging at 1.2 x 10(6)g(-1) dry soil, and did not fluctuate significantly over the rice cropping seasons. Statistical data showed that less cropping density with aerated fallow and high nitrogen rate favored the population growth of P-IRB. However, results showed that population size of B-IRB was relatively insensitive to the effect of either seasonal or extrinsic factors tested in this study.
12682958	Pot experiment was carried out to study the effect of application bioorganic manure on soil nitrogen supplying characteristics. Compared with the application of raw rice straw, a combined application of bio-organic manure and inorganic nitrogen fertilizer could boost the content of microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen, and the increased percentage could be 300-400%. A strong immobilization of nitrogen by microorganisms was always followed by a net N mineralization, which was mostly favorable for the growth and development of plant, and improved the use efficiency of nitrogen fertilizer.
12682959	The effects of applying nitrogen fertilizer in ploughed furrow at different stages on dry matter production and yield of rice were studied in a field experiment in 1999. The results showed that applying N fertilizer at booting stage (BS) had better effects on dry weight (2.9 g.hill-1) of leaf, stem and whole plant than at panicle primordia formation stage (PPFS), tillering stage (TS) and regular N fertilization (RF). Meanwhile, the dry weight of leaf and sheath as well as the leaf area index (LAI, 8.9) could be maintained at a high level for a relative long time in BS treatment, compared with PPFS, TS and RF treatments. Similar phenomenon was observed in the growth velocity (0.73 g.d-1.hill-1) of stem and whole plant, and the dry weight (10434 kg.hm-2) of seed. The grain yield of rice followed the sequence of BS > or = PPFS > TS > or = RF. Thus, the optimum stage of applying N fertilizer in ploughed furrow was the booting stage.
12682960	In this study, 5 parental rice lines with different allelopathic potential were employed in partial diallel cross (4 x 5) to get 10 groups of F1 seeds. After testing the inhibitory effects of 5 parents and 10 F1s under different environment at different leaf stage on the shoot length of receiver plant lettuce(Lactuca sativa L.), dynamic genetics of rice allelopathy and its genotype x environment effects were analyzed by using additive-dominant developmental genetic models. The results showed that additive and dominant effect genes expressed alternatively during 3-leaf stage to 8-leaf stage in rice seedling. As additive effect genes were pronounced at 7-leaf stage, dominant effect genes appeared to play the most important role at 3-leaf stage and 6-leaf stage but the two effect genes were equally important at 5-leaf stage and 8-leaf stage. Heritabilities analysis indicated that the general heritability in the narrow sense(HN2) was significant at 5-, 7- and 8-leaf stage, and decreased with increasing leaf stage. Rice allelopathy was significantly affected by genotype x environment (GE) interaction, suggesting that the environment of allelopathic rice development must be controlled for practical use.
12682961	Under hydroponic culture, the responses of rice (Oryza sativa) genotypes to low P stress were respectively evaluated by means of relatively-higher P concentration in a controlled system with insoluble phosphate source (Ca3 (PO4)2) and of relatively-lower concentration with 0.5 mg P/L in which NaH2PO4 was the soluble phosphate. Relative indices such as relative dry weight of tillers (RTW), total relative plant dry weight (RPW), relative number of tillers (RTN), relative dry weight of root (RRW), relative dry weight of shoot (RSW), relative leaf age (RLA) and relative plant height (RPH) were used to screen as the tolerant indices to P deficiency, and the correlations among screening criteria per se were analyzed. The results showed that there were significant differences of tolerant indices to P deficiency in the test rice genotypes. When the rice cultivars were exposed to low P stress with the relatively-higher P concentration to be screened, the relative tiller dry weight (RTW), relative shoot dry weight (RSW) and total relative plant dry weight (RPW) could be used as the better screening criteria, especially RTW was considered as a sensitive and reliable screening criterion because its coefficient of variation (CV) and the variable range of data among the test varieties should be large. However, when rice genotypes were grown in the stress condition with relatively-lower P concentration, the screening criteria were different, and it suggested that relative shoot dry weight (RSW) or total relative plant dry weight (RPW) was the best single screening criterion.
12682972	This study was carried out in the Experimental Station of Nanjing Agricultural University, which is in a subtropical monsoon region characterized by a warm-wet spring and a hot-dry summer. The annual average temperature, precipitation and evaporation are 15.6 degrees C, 1010 mm and 1560 mm, respectively. In 1999, the experimental plots (2.8 m x 1.0 m x 0.6 m) were established by concrete frame. Soil in the plots was orthic aquisols collected from Rugao County, Jiangsu Province. Crop rotation was upland rice and winter wheat. At the beginning of the first crop (rice) season, earthworms (Pheretima sp.) were inoculated at a density of 10.m-2 and 20.m-2, respectively, in the plots with an application of corn residues at the rate of 1500 g.m-2(750 g.m-2 in the following seasons). The responses of soil carbon and nitrogen and crop yield to earthworm activity were investigated from 1999 to 2001. The results showed that earthworms had no significant influences on total soil carbon and nitrogen content, which implied that there was no depletion of soil carbon and nitrogen pools in the presence of earthworms. The maintenance of soil carbon might be explained by low assimilation efficiency of organic matter by earthworms, and by the compensation of carbon returning from plant production enhancement. Soil mineral nitrogen, soil microbial biomass carbon and microbial biomass nitrogen were increased, and nitrogen mineralization was strengthened by earthworm activities, which was more obvious at jointing/booting and heading stages. In comparison with no-worm treatments, the yield of rice wheat increased by 9.3% and 5.1%, respectively, in the treatments inoculated with earthworms. It was concluded that earthworm was very important in promoting nitrogen recycling of crop residues and plant productivity, and in keeping the balance of soil carbon pool as well.
12682977	Pot experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of organic manure on the conformation and availability of both native and added Cd in red soil and moisture soil under rice planting. Most of the added Cd existed in exchangeable form, while the native Cd existed more evenly in four forms. The organic manure did not influence apparently on the forms of native Cd, whereas influenced significantly on those of the added Cd. From tillering to mature stage, the exchangeable form of the native Cd increased, while that of the added Cd decreased. The application of organic manure could promote the uptake of Cd under the treatments without adding Cd. Under the treatments of adding Cd, the application of the organic manure could depress the uptake of Cd, and the effect of applying pig's manure was stronger than that of applying peat. There existed a significant antagonism between the accumulation of Cd and Fe in rice roots.
12684538	We used a systematic approach to build a network of genes associated with developmental and stress responses in rice by identifying interaction domains for 200 proteins from stressed and developing tissues, by measuring the associated gene expression changes in different tissues exposed to a variety of environmental, biological, and chemical stress treatments, and by localizing the cognate genes to regions of stress-tolerance trait genetic loci. The integrated data set suggests that similar genes respond to environmental cues and stresses, and some may also regulate development. We demonstrate that the data can be used to correctly predict gene function in monocots and dicots. As a result, we have identified five genes that contribute to disease resistance in Arabidopsis.
12684786	We previously showed that two major cysteine endopeptidases, REP-1 and REP-2, were present in germinated rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds, and that REP-1 was the enzyme that digests seed storage proteins. The present study shows that REP-2 is an asparaginyl endopeptidase that acts as an activator of REP-1, and we separated it into two forms, REP-2alpha (39 kDa) and REP-2beta (40 kDa), using ion-exchange chromatography and gel filtration chromatography. Although analysis of the amino terminals revealed that 10 amino acids of both forms were identical, their isoelectric points were different. SDS-PAGE/immunoblot analysis using an antiserum raised against legumain, an asparaginyl endopeptidase from jack bean, indicated that both forms were present in maturing and germinating rice seeds, and that their amounts transiently decreased in dry seeds. Northern blot analysis indicated that REP-2 mRNA was expressed in both maturing and germinating seeds. In germinating seeds, the mRNA was detected in aleurone layers but not in shoot and root tissues. Incubation of the de-embryonated seeds in 10(-6) M gibberellic acid induced the production of large amounts of REP-1, whereas REP-2beta levels declined rapidly. Southern blot analysis showed that there is one gene for REP-2 in the genome, indicating that both REP-2 enzymes are generated from a single gene. The structure of the gene was similar to that of beta-VPE and gamma-VPE isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana.
12684848	The gene encoding the catalytic domain of thermostable xylanase from Clostridium thermocellum F1 was expressed in rice plants under the control of a constitutive promoter. The gene encoding Xylanase A was modified to encode the catalytic domain of family 11 xylanase without the signal sequence (xynA1), and was introduced into rice plants and expressed under the control of a modified cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Zymogram analysis indicated that the recombinant xylanase was produced in rice plants. The xynA1 gene was stably expressed in rice straw and seed grains. No phenotypic effect of xylanase expression was noted. The enzyme was detected in the desiccated grain. High levels of enzyme activity were maintained in the cell-free extract during incubation at 60 degrees C for 24 h. The results indicated that high levels of xylanase can be produced in rice plants.
12684879	Bacterial blight and fungal blast diseases of rice, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and Pyricularia grisea Sacc., respectively, are two of the most devastating diseases in rice worldwide. To study the defense responses to infection with each of these pathogens, expression profiling of 12 defense-responsive genes was performed using near-isogenic rice lines that are resistant or susceptible to bacterial blight and fungal blast, respectively, and rice cultivars that are resistant or susceptible to both pathogens. All 12 genes showed constitutive expression, but expression levels increased in response to infection. Based on their expression patterns in 12 host-pathogen combinations, these genes could be classified into three types, pathogen non-specific (6), pathogen specific but race non-specific (4) and race specific (2). Most of the 12 genes were only responsive during incompatible interactions. These results suggest that bacterial blight and fungal blast resistances share common pathway(s), but are also regulated by different defense pathways in rice. Activation of the corresponding R gene is the key step that initiates the action of these genes in defense responses. The chromosomal locations and pathogen specificities of seven of the 12 genes were consistent with those of previously identified quantitative trait loci for rice disease resistance, which indicates that some of the 12 genes studied may have a phenotypic impact on disease resistance in rice.
12687001	Tillering in rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important agronomic trait for grain production, and also a model system for the study of branching in monocotyledonous plants. Rice tiller is a specialized grain-bearing branch that is formed on the unelongated basal internode and grows independently of the mother stem (culm) by means of its own adventitious roots. Rice tillering occurs in a two-stage process: the formation of an axillary bud at each leaf axil and its subsequent outgrowth. Although the morphology and histology and some mutants of rice tillering have been well described, the molecular mechanism of rice tillering remains to be elucidated. Here we report the isolation and characterization of MONOCULM 1 (MOC1), a gene that is important in the control of rice tillering. The moc1 mutant plants have only a main culm without any tillers owing to a defect in the formation of tiller buds. MOC1 encodes a putative GRAS family nuclear protein that is expressed mainly in the axillary buds and functions to initiate axillary buds and to promote their outgrowth.
12687363	The spinach (Spinacia oleracea L. (cv. Hoyo) nitrate reductase inactivator (NRI) is a novel protein that irreversibly inactivates NR. Using degenerate primers based on an N-terminal amino acid sequence of NRI purified from spinach leaves and a cDNA library, we isolated a full-length NRI cDNA from spinach that contains an open reading frame encoding 479 amino acid residues. This protein shares 67.4% and 51.1-68.3% amino acid sequence similarities with a nucleotide pyrophosphatase (EC 3.6.1.9) from rice and three types of the nucleotide pyrophosphatase-like protein from Arabidopsis thaliana, respectively. Immunoblot analysis revealed that NRI was constitutively expressed in suspension-cultured spinach cells; however, its expression level is quite low in 1-day-subcultured cells. Moreover, northern blot analysis indicated that this expression was regulated at the mRNA level. These results suggest that NRI functions in mature cells.
12687619	In order to avoid the complex conditions of the intact plant for simple analysis of proteins in wound-response stress, we used the detached rice leaf sheath which is a very active part of the rice seedling. Proteins were extracted from rice leaf sheath at 0, 12, 24, 48 h after cutting and separated by two-dimensional (2-D) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Changes in differentially displayed proteins were found in leaf sheaths after cutting in the 0-48 h time course. Ten proteins were up-regulated, while 19 proteins were down-regulated compared with those on the four 2-D gels. Among them, 14 proteins were analyzed by N-terminal, or internal amino acid sequence. The clear functions of nine proteins could be identified. Six proteins did not yield amino acid sequence information due to their blocked N-termini. Furthermore, 11 proteins were determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry, and identified protein database matching. It was shown that the down-regulated proteins were calreticulin (nos. 5, 6), histone H1 (no. 15) and hemoglobin (no. 17), putative peroxidase (no. 19); the up-regulated proteins were Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor (no. 23), putative receptor-like protein kinase (nos. 24, 25), calmodulin-related protein (no. 26), small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (no. 27), mannose-binding rice lectin (nos. 28, 29). Among all the above proteins, four (nos. 23, 24, 25, 26) have been confirmed to be wound-response proteins. The others cannot be excluded as also being related to wound-responses, such as the signal transduction-related proteins (nos. 5, 6), photosynthesis-related protein (no. 27), and stress-response proteins (nos. 19, 28, 29). This is the first time protein changes in response to wounding in rice leaf sheath have been shown.
12687772	The development of palaeoparasitology in Japan has occurred in recent decades. Despite the fact that archaeology in Japan has been slow to develop techniques for excavating ancient toilets, important information about the development of sanitation has been derived from the analysis of a few sites. This shows that the earliest people had very simple methods of sanitation. As populations increased, sanitation became more complex. Ditches surrounding early towns were used for excrement disposal. Eventually distinct toilets were developed followed by cesspit type toilets and flushing toilets. The parasites recovered from these toilets include many species that infect humans today. These parasite spectra reflect local use of aquatic, marine, and land animals. Fecal borne disease was an increasing problem as represented by whipworm and ascarid roundworm eggs. Interestingly, ascarid roundworms were absent in the earliest cultures and only became common with rice agriculture. Finds of pollen and seeds in toilet sediments reveal the use of medicinal plants to control the emerging problem of parasites.
12688478	A field plot study was conducted on two types of paddy soils in the Taihu Lake Region, during the rice season of year 2000 in order to assess phosphorus (P) losses by runoff and vertical leaching, which are considered the two main pathways of P movement from paddy soil into its surrounding water course. Commercial NPK compound fertilizer and single superphosphate fertilizer were applied to furnish 0, 30, 150, and 300 kg applied P ha m(-2). The experiments consisted of three replicates of each treatment in Changshu site and four replicates in Anzhen site, with a plot size of 5 x 6 m2 in a randomized block. Results revealed that the average concentration range for total P (TP) in runoff was 1.857-7.883, 1.038-5.209, 0.783-1.255 and 0.572-0.691 mg P l(-1) respectively for P300, P150, P30 and P0 in Anzhen, while it was 2.431-2.449, 1.578-1.890, 1.050-1.315 and 0.749-0.941 mg P l(-1) respectively in Changshu. In all treatments, particulate P (PP) represented a major portion of the TP lost in runoff, it was 80% in Anzhen, and it was even more (>90%) in Changshu. Phosphate fertilizer treatments significantly affected P concentrations and P loads in the runoff. The mean concentration and average seasonal TP load from the P150 plots were 1.809 mg P l(-1) and 395 g P ha m(-2) season(-1) respectively, and lower than that from the P300 plots (2.957 mg P l(-1) and 652 g P ha m(-2) season(-1)). These were obviously higher than from the P30 (0.761 mg P l(-1) and 221 g P ha m(-2) season(-1)) and P0 (0.484 mg P l(-1) and 146 g P ha m(-2) season(-1)) respectively. There was no significant difference found between the P30 and the P0 in both sites. Under usual P application rate, there were total 31.7 and 20.6 tones P removed by runoff from permeable (Anzhen site) and waterlogged (Changshu site) paddy soils in the southern Jiangsu region (major part of the TLR) in the rice season of the year 2000. But if the P application rate is unusual high, or the Olsen P in soil accumulates to above a certain level, then this could sharply increase in the future. The average concentration of molybdate reactive phosphorus (MRP) in the vertical leachate from the four different P treatments ranged from 0.058 to 0.304 mg P l(-1) in Anzhen and from 0.048 to 0.394 mg P l(-1) in Changshu. P application rate significantly affected the MRP concentration at each depth in both sites, except for the 90 cm in Anzhen. The average MRP loads during the rice season moved by vertical leaching from the four treatments ranged from 163 to 855 g P ha m(-2) season(-1) in Anzhen and 208-1,825 g P ha m(-2) season(-1) in Changshu. Vertical leachate movement does not necessarily mean that it moves towards surface water and contaminate the watercourses in this flat plain paddy soil region, it does, however, imply that P can move down from surface layers of soil to deeper levels.
12688483	Nitrate concentration in well water collected from the wells near farm houses was investigated in the Taihu Lake basin (TBL) of China. Nitrate-N content of the well water ranged from 0.1 to 23 mgNl(-1), and 41% exceeded the criteria (10 mg Nl(-1)). It was found that the difference in well conditions, especially the depth of the well, was the main cause of the difference in the nitrate concentration of well water, i.e. it was higher in shallow well and lower in deeper well. A recommendation was made for local farmers to drill wells deeper than 10 m in order to reduce the risk of high ingestion of nitrate-N in their drinking water. Nitrate distribution and denitrification in the saturated zone of a paddy field under rice/wheat rotation in the TBL were studied. Porous pipes were installed in triplicate at depths of 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.5 and 5 m respectively to collect the soil solution samples. Results showed that nitrate was the predominant N form in soil solution of saturated zone, and it increased from 1.5 to 2.5 m depth, and decreased from 2.5 to 5 m depth. N2O captured in the soil solution was very high comparing with N2O content in air. N2O content was positively correlated with nitrate concentrations in the soil profile. These results indicate that nitrate leached into saturated zone was mainly transformed via denitrification processes. Comparing the sum of inorganic nitrogen with the total nitrogen in soil solution samples collected from those wells at the field, some soluble organic nitrogen was found about 1-2 mg N l(-1) in average.
12688487	Chemical behavior of Cd in rice rhizosphere as affected or not by Pb was investigated. The NH4OAc extractable Cd in the rhizosphere was distinctly lower than that in bulk soil. The depletion of Cd in the rhizosphere could not be simply attributed to Cd uptake by rice. The observed phenomena could be attributed to the decreasing pH in the rhizosphere and the complexing capabilities of soluble exudates for Cd. Extractable Cd increased in both the rhizosphere and bulk soil after the addition of Pb, which might be caused by the replacement of Pb for Cd. The extractable Cd in the non-rhizosphere varied with the distance from the root surface, especially within 0-1 mm, which was greatly affected by the combined effects of mass flow, activation and fixation, and had the lowest extractable Cd. Pb addition affected the distribution of extractable Cd in the non-rhizosphere, implying that the affinity of Pb for organic matter was greater than that of Cd. The difference of Cd species between rhizosphere and bulk soil demonstrated that the transformation of exchangeable Cd (EXC-Cd) to OM-Cd (bound to organic matter) and FMO-Cd (bound to iron and manganese oxide) occurred in the rice rhizosphere due to the exudations from the rice root, the activity of microorganisms on the root surface and the activation of Fe and Mn oxides. The interaction between Pb and Cd resulted in the content of EXC-Cd being higher in the presence of Pb, whereas the OM-Cd content was lower in the presence of Pb.
12688937	The heat capacity and magnetization of a fluid 3He monolayer adsorbed on graphite plated with a bilayer of HD have been measured in the temperature range 1-60 mK. Approaching the density at which the monolayer solidifies into a sqrt[7]xsqrt[7] commensurate solid, we observe an apparent divergence of the effective mass and magnetization corresponding to a T=0 Mott-Hubbard transition between a 2D Fermi liquid and a magnetically disordered solid. The observations are consistent with the Brinkman-Rice-Anderson-Vollhardt scenario for a metal-insulator transition. We observe a leading order T2 correction to the linear term in heat capacity.
12689044	The Oslo rice pile model is a sandpile-like paradigmatic model of self-organized criticality (SOC). In this paper it is shown that the Oslo model is in fact exactly a discrete realization of the much studied quenched Edwards-Wilkinson equation (qEW) [Nattermann et al., J. Phys. II France 2, 1483 (1992)]. This is possible by choosing the correct dynamical variable and identifying its equation of motion. It establishes for the first time an exact link between SOC models and the field of interface growth with quenched disorder. This connection is obviously very encouraging as it suggests that established theoretical techniques can be brought to bear with full strength on some of the hitherto elusive problems of SOC.
12689519	Previously, we reported the biochemical properties of RGA1 that is expressed in Escherichia coli (Seo et al., 1997). The activities of RGA1 that hydrolyzes and binds guanine nucleotide were dependent on the MgCl(2) concentration. The steady state rate constant (k(cat)) for GTP hydrolysis of RGA1 at 2 mM MgCl(2) was 0.0075 +/- 0.0001 min(-1). Here, we examined the effects of pH and cations on the GTPase activity. The optimum pH at 2 mM MgCl(2) was approximately 6.0; whereas, the pH at 2 mM NH(4)Cl was approximately 4.0. The result from the cation dependence on the GTPase (guanosine 5'-triphosphatase) activity of RGA1 under the same condition showed that the GTP hydrolysis rate (k(cat)= 0.0353 min(-1)) under the condition of 2 mM NH(4)Cl at pH 4.0 was the highest. It corresponded to about 3.24-fold of the k(cat) value of 0.0109 min(-1) in the presence of 2 mM MgCl(2) at pH 6.0.
12691462	The HCV genotype, HCV RNA, HCV core antigen, and anti-HCV antibodies are the four biologic markers currently used in hepatitis C. Acute and chronic hepatitis C are diagnosed by anti-HCVantibody (enzyme immunoassay) and HCV RNA detection with sensitive molecular biology techniques. Other virologic tools include HCV genotype determination and HCV RNA quantification; these are used to guide the individual treatment choice, and also to monitor treatment efficacy. Overall, the management of HCV infection has been vastly improved by the use of virologic assays. These assays remain to be fully standardized and automated, however, and more clinically relevant cut-off values are required on which to base management recommendations. More sensitive and accurate HCV RNA assays will improve not only the assessment of the response to antiviral treatment, but also our understanding of antiviral resistance. These improvements, and the development of new antiviral drugs (see the article by Drs. DeFrancesco and Rice elsewhere in this issue), should help to optimize the treatment of HCV infection.
12692345	The CO (CONSTANS) gene of Arabidopsis has an important role in the regulation of flowering by photoperiod. CO is part of a gene family with 17 members that are subdivided into three classes, termed Group I to III here. All members of the family have a CCT (CO, CO-like, TOC1) domain near the carboxy terminus. Group I genes, which include CO, have two zinc finger B-boxes near the amino terminus. Group II genes have one B-box, and Group III genes have one B-box and a second diverged zinc finger. Analysis of rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequence identified 16 genes (OsA-OsP) that were also divided into these three groups, showing that their evolution predates monocot/dicot divergence. Eight Group I genes (HvCO1-HvCO8) were isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare), of which two (HvCO1 and HvCO2) were highly CO like. HvCO3 and its rice counterpart (OsB) had one B-box that was distantly related to Group II genes and was probably derived by internal deletion of a two B-box Group I gene. Sequence homology and comparative mapping showed that HvCO1 was the counterpart of OsA (Hd1), a major determinant of photoperiod sensitivity in rice. Major genes determining photoperiod response have been mapped in barley and wheat (Triticum aestivum), but none corresponded to CO-like genes. Thus, selection for variation in photoperiod response has affected different genes in rice and temperate cereals. The peptides of HvCO1, HvCO2 (barley), and Hd1 (rice) show significant structural differences from CO, particularly amino acid changes that are predicted to abolish B-box2 function, suggesting an evolutionary trend toward a one-B-box structure in the most CO-like cereal genes.
12692374	Although it is well known that patients with atopic dermatitis often show unpredictable, irregular aggravation of skin lesions, there are no previously published studies examining trigger factors for such unpredictable aggravation. We investigated whether foods play a role in the unpredictable, irregular worsening of atopic dermatitis. The patient group included 195 Japanese adult patients with atopic dermatitis who showed unpredictable, irregular aggravation of skin lesions. They were hospitalized and openly challenged with suspected foods. Photographs of representative skin lesion sites were taken at baseline and before and after the challenge. Challenge-positive foods were determined by evaluating the comparable before-after challenge photographs. One to three (average: 1.7) challenge-positive foods were confirmed in 86 (44%) of the 195 patient examined. Predominant offending foods were chocolate, cheese, coffee, yogurt and some Japanese foods such as glutinous rice cake, soy sauce and fermented soybeans. Specific IgE values to the offending foods were mostly negative. Patients were asked to exclude challenge-positive foods from their diets. They were then discharged and followed up for 3 months at our outpatient clinic. Exclusion of the offending foods for 3 months brought about a progressive improvement of the disease. These results suggest that foods play an important role in unpredictable, irregular aggravation of skin lesions in patients with atopic dermatitis.
12692728	The tapetum plays a crucial role in pollen development. This secretory tissue produces numerous nutritive proteins necessary for pollen maturation. The tapetum, whose cells undergo programmed cell death (PCD), is completely diminished by the time the pollen is fully mature. Our previous studies on a thermosensitive genic male-sterile (TGMS) rice (Oryza sativa L.) suggested that male-sterility was due to failure in pollen development. In this paper we describe how further analysis of the TGMS rice revealed that male-sterility is associated with premature PCD of the tapetum. Cytological observations of TGMS rice anthers at various developmental stages indicated that PCD initiates at an early stage of pollen development and continues until the tapetal cells are completely degraded, resulting in pollen collapse. Transmission electron microscopy showed the morphologically distinct hallmarks of apoptosis, including cytoplasmic shrinkage, membrane blebbing, and vacuolation. Identification of DNA fragmentation using the TUNEL assay supports the hypothesis that premature PCD is associated with male-sterility in the rice. The tissue-specific feature of the thermosensitive genic male-sterile phenotype is discussed with regard to PCD during anther development.
12693099	VB12-independent methionine synthase is present in higher plants, and catalyzes the methylation of C-homocysteine to form methionine, which is very important for methylation reactions and syntheses of polyamines and ethylene. Under the alkaline condition, using cDNA-RAPD method, a new VB12-independent methionine synthase gene has been cloned and characterized for the first time in rice in this study. The results exhibited that, the cDNA gene entailed 2740 bp, had single copy in the rice genome and encoded peptide of 765 amino acids, the peptide showed 92% and 83% identity with that from Mesembryanthemum cystallinum (U84889) and Cathararanthus roseus (X83499), respectively. It enhanced the transcription more greatly after sodium carbonate treatment for 12 h and 24 h than that of sodium chloride treatment, and then obviously reduced in 48 h later, suggesting that it is related to this stress tolerance in rice.
12693153	Subsequent to esophagectomy and reconstruction among patients with esophageal cancers, the intrathoracic denervated stomach acts as a passive conduit without peristalsis. The study was designed to assess the impact of two prokinetic drugs viz. erythromycin and cisapride on the emptying of vagally denervated intrathoracic stomach. Twenty consecutive patients of carcinoma esophagus, who had undergone one stage transhiatal oesophagectomy with cervical esophagogastrostomy and were disease free at three months postoperative follow-up, were included in the study. These patients were randomised into two groups of ten each. The patients in group A received erythromycin, while patients in group B received cisapride. The gastric emptying was studied by scintigraphy, using a standard test meal containing 99m Tc sulphur colloid labelled 'IDLIS' [rice based radio labelled food] before and after the drug treatment. The pre and post treatment mean gastric half emptying time of the patients in the erythromycin group was 52.6 min and 49.7 min (p > 0.1) and in cisapride group it was 53.76 and 26.4 min respectively (p < 0.05). Intergroup comparison of the difference was not statistically significant. Cisapride is an effective prokinetic agent in the treatment of gastric stasis of the vagally denervated intrathoracic stomach.
12693693	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based RAPD profiles, in conjunction with six primers, of Karnal bunt of wheat and rice bunt exhibiting distinct polymorphic DNA. A total of 84 RAPD loci were observed on polyacrylamide gel for both Tilletia sps. Out of 84, 16 loci were found monomorphic, while other 68 loci were unique. Usefulness of random primers was also checked with other seed borne fungal pathogens of wheat and rice. None of primers gave amplification with Magnaporthe grisea, a causative agent of rice blast. However, distinct RAPD profiles were obtained with Alternaria triticina, Fusarium monaliforme, Helminthosporium sativum and Rhizoctonia solani. These six arbitrary primers could distinguish T. indica, a quarantine fungal pathogen from a non-quarantine fungal pathogen, T. barclayana. The two Tilletia sps. could be discriminated not only on the basis of distinct RAPD profiles, but also by presence of few unique gene fragments amplified using all six primers.
12693848	A sodium channel 'kdr'-type mutation was identified in the M form of Anopheles gambiae from Burkina Faso in the tropical savannah area belt. The molecular M form of An. gambiae is found at high frequencies in the flooded rice cultivation area of Kou Valley, where the insecticide selection pressure is limited. The spread of the mutation in the M population is an ongoing process, as it increased from a frequency of 0.006 in 1999 to 0.02 in 2000. The S molecular form occurs in sympatry in our study village, with the M form at a relatively low frequency. The common 'kdr' mutation was previously detected in this area in the S form, and has probably invaded the M population through genetic introgression. This impacts on the question of actual levels of gene flow between the two molecular forms in tropical savannah areas. A hybrid M/S individual was identified during the course of this study, which was homozygous for the 'kdr' mutation. Pyrethroid resistant An. gambiae were caught in October and November, which is the time of year that the molecular S form migrates into this area as rain-fed breeding sites in the cotton fields dry out.
12693984	The activity of various plant peroxidases and the ability of their individual isoforms to bind chitin was studied. Some increase in peroxidase activity was observed in crude extracts in the presence of chitin. Activated peroxidases of some species fell in the fraction not sorbed on chitin and those of other species can bind chitin. Only anionic isoperoxidases from oat (Avena sativa), rice (Oryza sativa), horseradish (Armoracia rusticana), garden radish (Raphanus sativus var. radicula), peanut (Arachis hypogaea), and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum Link et Otto) were sorbed on chitin. Both anionic and cationic isoforms from pea (Pisum sativum), galega(Galega orientalis), cucumber (Cucumis sativus), and zucchini (Cucurbita pepo L.) were sorbed on chitin. Peroxidase activation under the influence of chitin was correlated to the processes that occur during hypersensitive reaction and lignification of sites, in which pathogenic fungus penetrates into a plant. The role of chitin-specific isoperoxidases in inhibition of fungal growth and connection of this phenomenon with structural characteristics of isoperoxidases are also discussed.
12695607
12696316	The sickle is still an ultimate choice hand tool for harvesting the new variety of rice. This preference continues. The sickles used by Balinese harvester are usually nonserrated. The sharpness of nonserrated sickles is reduced quickly, so the harvester needs time to sharpen them frequently, which mean time loss and productivity reduction. To solve this problem, research has been conducted using experimental treatment by subject design. Thirty-three harvesters voluntarily joined the study at the "Subak Yeh Ge" District of Kediri Tabanan Regency, using serrated and nonserrated sickles. The productivity was measured by dividing the number of paddy stalks cut every 15 minutes by increment of heart rate over the resting value. The opinions of harvesters about sickle performance were also collected. The results are as follows: 1. The sharpness of serrated sickles is more stable than nonserrated ones. 2. The use of serrated sickles reduces the workload and work time loss. 3. The productivity of harvesters using serrated sickles is always higher than those using nonserrated sickles, but significant productivity differences begin to appear from the second to the eighth 15-minute period (p < 0.05). 4. Decreased productivity in both groups occurred from the first 15-minute period, but significant differences occurred from the fourth period in the group using nonserrated sickles and at the eighth period in the group using serrated sickles. 5. By use of the heart rate and the WBGT index, it is shown that harvesting can be continuously done over an 8-hour period.
12696411	Two field experiments were conducted in 1999 and 2000 at Zeme (Pavia, Italy) to determine the effects of water managements and herbicide treatments on red rice control. In the first experiment, all plots were flooded 10-13 cm deep from April 1 to May 17 in 1999 and from April 3 to May 6 in 2000. At the same time, in the second experiment, the plots were alternately drained-flooded. At the end of water management, all plots of both experiments were drained and sprayed with herbicides to control the emerged red rice plants. In both years were applied: Propaquizafop 78 g a.i.ha-1, Cycloxydim at 300 and 400 g a.i. ha-1; Dalapon at 15.300 Kg a.i. ha-1; Quizalofop-ethyl at 100 g a.i. ha-1. Six days after the chemical treatments, all field plots were flooded 10 cm deep and three days later, an early variety of rice (Loto) was sown at 150 Kg ha-1. Seedling emergence was reduced by lack of oxygen (especially from seeds covered with soil in flooded condition). In alternately drained-flooded soil, the red rice emerged and developed from seeds located in the top 4-5 cm. In flooded condition, no red rice plants emerged from seeds at more than 1 cm depth. In both experiments, the density of red rice plants increased during the season in the untreated check and in the plots where treatments were ineffective or performed poorly. The best red rice control, both in submerged and in alternately drained-flooded soil, was obtained with Quizalofop-ethyl (100 g a.i./ha), Cycloxydim (300 and 400 g a.i.ha-1) and Propaquizafop (78 g a.i.ha-1). These herbicides controlled 90-99% of red rice. Partial control of red rice resulted with the other chemical treatments. The shattered grains of red rice were reduced in both experiments by the herbicide treatments. Grain yield reflected the level of red rice control. In fact, the highest commercial grain yields were obtained with Quizalofop-ethyl, Propaquizafop, and Cycloxydim (400 g a.i.ha-1), in both years and experiments. The red rice percentages of the total yields resulted about 3.6-5.7% with all chemical treatments except Dalapon, which was not much effective.
12696927	A rapid and simple extraction method for the simultaneous analysis of five neonicotinoid insecticides has been developed. Twelve different fruit and vegetable matrixes were extracted with methanol and cleaned up using a graphitized carbon solid phase extraction cartridge loading with a 20% methanol solution. The concentrated eluate after methanol elution was then analyzed for pesticide residues by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry in the APCI positive mode. The five pesticides including nitenpyram, thiamethoxam, imidacloprid, acetamiprid, and thiacloprid were recovered at 70-95% at spike levels of 0.1 and 1 mg/kg in bell pepper, cucumber, eggplant, grape, grapefruit, Japanese radish, peach, pear, potato, rice, and tomato. Relative standard deviations were less than 10% for all of the recovery tests. The proposed method is fast, easy to perform, and could be utilized for regular monitoring of pesticide residues.
12696972	This work compared the molecular structures and physicochemical properties of starches obtained from chalky and translucent kernels of six rice cultivars. Starch samples were prepared according to a modified alkali steeping method. Crystallinity, pasting characteristics, and thermal properties were studied by X-ray diffraction, rapid viscosity analysis, and differential scanning calorimetry, respectively. Starch molecular size fractions (amylopectin, amylose, and intermediate material) were estimated by high-performance size exclusion chromatography, and the chain length profiles of isoamylase-debranched amylopectin were evaluated by high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection. Starches from chalky kernels contained less amylose (more amylopectin) and more short branch-chain amylopectin (less long branch-chain amylopectin) compared with the translucent kernel starches. Differences in starch structural features significantly correlated with observed variation in grain translucency, starch X-ray diffraction patterns, thermal properties, and pasting characteristics. Starch synthesis in chalky kernels may slightly favor glucan chain branching over chain elongation.
12696978	Anthocyanins are thought to protect against cardiovascular diseases. Watanabe heritable hyperlipidemic (WHHL) rabbits are hypercholesterolemic and used as a model of the development of atherosclerosis. To compare the uptake and excretion of anthocyanins in humans and WHHL rabbits, single-dose black currant anthocyanin studies were performed. Procedures for workup and analyses of urine and plasma samples containing anthocyanins were developed with high recoveries (99 and 81%, respectively) and low limits of quantification (> or =6.6 and > or =1.1 nM, respectively). The excretion and absorption of anthocyanins from black currant juice were found to be within the same order of magnitude in the two species regarding urinary excretion within the first 4 h (rabbits, 0.035%; humans, 0.072%) and t(max) (rabbits, approximately 30 min; humans, approximately 45 min). A food matrix effect was detected in rabbits, resulting in the absorption of a higher proportion of the anthocyanins from black currant juice than from an aqueous citric acid matrix. In humans the absorption and urinary excretion of anthocyanins from black currant juice were found to be proportional with dose and not influenced by the ingestion of a rice cake. In both species a larger proportion of the anthocyanin rutinosides than of the glucosides was absorbed, whereas the structure of the aglycon had no influence on the absorption and excretion. The anthocyanins had no effect in rabbits on the antioxidant capacity of plasma measured as Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity and ferruc reducing ability of plasma.
12698294	The type I MADS-box genes constitute a largely unexplored subfamily of the extensively studied MADS-box gene family, well known for its role in flower development. Genes of the type I MADS-box subfamily possess the characteristic MADS box but are distinguished from type II MADS-box genes by the absence of the keratin-like box. In this in silico study, we have structurally annotated all 47 members of the type I MADS-box gene family in Arabidopsis thaliana and exerted a thorough analysis of the C-terminal regions of the translated proteins. On the basis of conserved motifs in the C-terminal region, we could classify the gene family into three main groups, two of which could be further subdivided. Phylogenetic trees were inferred to study the evolutionary relationships within this large MADS-box gene subfamily. These suggest for plant type I genes a dynamic of evolution that is significantly different from the mode of both animal type I (SRF) and plant type II (MIKC-type) gene phylogeny. The presence of conserved motifs in the majority of these genes, the identification of Oryza sativa MADS-box type I homologues, and the detection of expressed sequence tags for Arabidopsis thaliana and other plant type I genes suggest that these genes are indeed of functional importance to plants. It is therefore even more intriguing that, from an experimental point of view, almost nothing is known about the function of these MADS-box type I genes.
12698321	Various agricultural residues, such as corn fiber, corn stover, wheat straw, rice straw, and sugarcane bagasse, contain about 20-40% hemicellulose, the second most abundant polysaccharide in nature. The conversion of hemicellulose to fuels and chemicals is problematic. In this paper, various pretreatment options as well as enzymatic saccharification of lignocellulosic biomass to fermentable sugars is reviewed. Our research dealing with the pretreatment and enzymatic saccharification of corn fiber and development of novel and improved enzymes such as endo-xylanase, beta-xylosidase, and alpha- l-arabinofuranosidase for hemicellulose bioconversion is described. The barriers, progress, and prospects of developing an environmentally benign bioprocess for large-scale conversion of hemicellulose to fuel ethanol, xylitol, 2,3-butanediol, and other value-added fermentation products are highlighted.
12700613	Associations between dietary factors and glucose tolerance observed in Caucasian populations may not be applicable to Chinese populations, since the traditional Chinese diet contains plentiful vegetables and is rice-based (which has a lower glycemic index than potatoes). To address this question, the dietary patterns in 988 Hong Kong Chinese subjects with normal and impaired glucose tolerance, and diabetes, were examined in a cross sectional survey to determine if there is any association between diet and glucose tolerance. A stratified random population sample of 988 subjects (488 male, 500 female) was recruited. A food frequency questionnaire was used to determine dietary intake, and glucose tolerance was examined using the glucose tolerance test and the WHO criteria used to classify subjects into the three glucose tolerance categories. Using the standardized world population of Segi, the prevalence rate for DM was 6.6% for men and 5.7% for women; and for IGT 10.3% for men and 15.4% for women aged 30-64 y. Abnormal glucose tolerance is associated with female gender, older age, lower educational attainment and higher body mass index (BMI). No clear pattern of association with dietary factors was observed after adjusting for confounding factors. However, if subjects with BMI>or=25 kg/m(2) were excluded, an increase in mean consumption of rice/noodles/pasta per week was observed in the DM group, after adjusting for total energy intake and other confounding factors. No association between dietary variety, which has been linked with body fatness, and glucose tolerance, was observed. Dietary habit may not be a strong risk factor for the development of glucose intolerance in Chinese populations, given the favorable features of the Chinese diet. The high consumption of rice in the DM subjects who are of normal BMI suggests that further studies examining glycemic indices of Chinese food items may be beneficial. Obesity still remains the most important predisposing factor.
12700620	To evaluate glycaemic and insulinaemic index and in vitro digestibility of the five most common Cameroonian mixed meals consisting of rice+tomato soup (diet A), bean stew+plantains (B), foofoo corn+ndolé (C), yams+groundnut soup (D), and koki beans+cassava (E). Ten healthy non-obese volunteers, aged 19-31 y, with no family history of diabetes or hypertension. A 75 g oral glucose tolerance test followed by the eating of the test diets with carbohydrate content standardized to 75 g every 4 days with blood samples taken at 0, 15, 30, 60, 120 and 180 min. In vitro digestion of each diet according to Brand's protocol. Plasma glucose, cholesterol, triglyceride, insulin and C-peptide, with calculation of glycaemic and insulinaemic index defined as the area under the glucose and insulin response curve after consumption of a test food divided by the area under the curve after consumption of a control food containing the same amount of carbohydrate, and digestibility index. Glycaemic index (GI) varied from 34.1 (diet C) to 52.0% (diet E) with no statistical difference between the diets, and insulinaemic index varied significantly from 40.2% (C) to 70.9% (A) (P=0.03). The digestibility index varied from 18.9 (C) to 60.8% (A) (P<0.0001), and did not correlate with glycaemic or insulinaemic indices. However, carbohydrate content correlated with GI (r=0.83; P=0.04), digestibility index (r=-0.70; P<0.01), and insulinaemic index (r=0.91; P<0.01). Plasma C-peptide and plasma lipids showed little difference over 180 min following the ingestion of each meal. Glycaemic index of these African mixed meals are relatively low and might not be predicted by in vitro digestibility index.
12700621	To determine and evaluate changes in nutritional status, food consumption, energy and nutrient intake in rural Bangladesh, using appropriate statistical analyses. Repeated cross-sectional surveys. Two seasons in 1981-1982 and 1995-1996. Two villages with different production patterns. Anthropometric measurements of 1883 individuals, food consumption data of 404 households. Repeated measurements of one-day food weighing and anthropometry in two seasons in 1981-1982 and 1995-1996. Mixed model analyses were used to evaluate and quantify temporal changes and their interactions with determinants. Prevalence of underweight children decreased from 82 to 70% (P=0.015), wasted children from 34% to 18% (P=0.009) and chronic energy deficient adults decreased from 78 to 64% (P<0.0001). Intake of fish and green leafy vegetables increased from (l.s. mean+/-s.e.) 23+/-3.0 to 40+/-1.8 g/person/day (P<0.001) and from 28+/-4.5 to 41+/-2.7 g/person/day (P=0.019), respectively. Rice intake remained unchanged: 463+/-12 g raw/person/day in 1981-1982 and 450+/-7.3 g raw/person/day in 1995-1996 (P=0.355). Calcium and iron intakes increased by 40% (P<0.0001) and 16% (P=0.0002), respectively, whereas vitamin A intake remained unchanged. Nutritional status improved and intakes of nutrient dense food groups, fat, iron and calcium increased from 1981-1982 to 1995-1996.
12700762	The photoperiodic control of flowering is one of the important developmental processes of plants because it is directly related to successful reproduction. Although the molecular genetic analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana, a long-day (LD) plant, has provided models to explain the control of flowering time in this species, very little is known about its molecular mechanisms for short-day (SD) plants. Here we show how the photoperiodic control of flowering is regulated in rice, a SD plant. Overexpression of OsGI, an orthologue of the Arabidopsis GIGANTEA (GI) gene in transgenic rice, caused late flowering under both SD and LD conditions. Expression of the rice orthologue of the Arabidopsis CONSTANS (CO) gene was increased in the transgenic rice, whereas expression of the rice orthologue of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) was suppressed. Our results indicate that three key regulatory genes for the photoperiodic control of flowering are conserved between Arabidopsis, a LD plant, and rice, a SD plant, but regulation of the FT gene by CO was reversed, resulting in the suppression of flowering in rice under LD conditions.
12701111	Digestive endoprotease activities of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus brevirostris Suffrian (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), were characterized based on the ability of gut extracts to hydrolyze specific synthetic substrates, optimal pH, and hydrolysis sensitivity to protease inhibitors. Larvae of this species were found to use a complex proteolytic system that includes cathepsin D-, cathepsin B-, trypsin-, and chymotrypsin-like activities. Trypsin-like activity was evenly distributed among the anterior, middle, and posterior portions of the gut, whereas cathepsin B- and cathepsin D-like activities were mainly located in the anterior and middle sections, and the chymotrypsin-like activity was highest in the middle and posterior sections. Gelatin-containing native-PAGE gels indicated the presence of several aspartyl, cysteine, and serine protease forms and confirmed the spatial organization of the proteolytic digestive process.
12701143	Recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (hGM-CSF) has been previously produced in tobacco cell suspension cultures. However, the amount of hGM-CSF accumulated in the culture medium dropped quickly from its maximum of 150 microg/L at 5 d after incubation. To overcome this problem, we sought an expression system in which heterologous gene expression could be induced at high levels. We selected a rice amylase expression system in which the promoter Ramy3D is induced to express recombinant protein by sucrose starvation. This induction system was found to give good yield of recombinant hGM-CSF in transgenic rice cell suspension culture and protease activity of this culture medium was low compared to that of tobacco culture system.
12701230
12701231
12701235	In the present study the effect of processing on starch fractions (rapidly digestible starch (RDS), slowly digestible starch (SDS) and resistant starch) were measured, using controlled enzymic hydrolysis with pancreatin and amyloglucidase, in six rice varieties; namely, BT rice, Gauri rice, Sona masoori, parboiled rice, Salem parboiled rice, and steamed rice. The processes studied were pressure cooking, boiling, steaming and straining. Rapidly available glucose (RAG) was also measured to derive a Starch Digestion Index (SDI). Cooking of rice by different methods decreased the amylose content. The degree of gelatinization ranged from 56 to 95, with pressure cooking resulting in the maximum degree. The starch fractions varied depending on the cooking method. Significant inverse correlations were seen between RDS and SDS (r = 0.40, P < 0.05), and between amylose and SDI (r = 0.60, P < 0.01). RAG and RDS related positively (r = 0.90, P < 0.01). The SDI of rice varieties cooked by the boiling and straining method were significantly higher (P < 0.05). The results emphasize that cooking methods influence the nutritionally important starch fractions in rice varieties.
12701241	Maize flour, potato flour, cocoyam flour, plantain flour, yam flour, and rice flour were assayed for starch digestibility by an established enzymatic procedure. These were either autoclaved, microwaved, or parboiled and then freeze-dried. Freeze-dried samples were stored for 10 days either below freezing or at ambient temperature. Parameters assessed were readily digestible starch (RDS), slowly digestible starch (SDS), and total starch (TS). Data was analyzed by t-test (P < or = 0.05). RDS levels among raw flours ranged from 1.01 g/100g in rice flour to 8.16 g/100 g in cocoyam flour. Autoclaving and parboiling increased RDS levels in most flours, while microwaving significantly reduced RDS compared with raw flour. Ambient temperature storage reduced the RDS content. SDS levels ranged from 4.95 g/100 g in yam flour to 22.2 g/100 g in maize flour. SDS levels were increased by autoclaving and parboling, but significantly reduced by microwaving, compared with the raw flour. Storage at ambient temperature resulted in lower SDS. The TS content in raw flour ranged from 28.0 g/100 g in plantain flour to 68.4 g/100 g in rice flour. Autoclaving resulted in reduced TS levels insome flours. Moist heat processing and the post-process storage temperature therefore result in significant changes in starch susceptibility to enzymic digestion. This information will be useful in developing food processing and storage procedures that modify starch resistance to digestion in order to optimize its nutritional quality and to enhance the physiological benefits.
12701368	A study was performed to examine the rate of digestion of available carbohydrate in legumes and its mixtures with cereals, prepared as commonly eaten. The legumes and cereals studied were lentil (Lens sculenta), pea (Pisum sativum), bean (Phaseolus vulgaris, var tortola), rice (Oryza sativa) and spaghetti. Foods were purchased at the city market. Total starch content and the carbohydrate digestion rates were determined using the enzymatic method proposed by Englyst et al. Total starch levels ranged from 7.78 g/100 g in cooked flour bean to 20.6 g/100 g in a bean-spaghetti dish, and dietary fiber contents ranged from 2.4 g/100 g in a cooked 70:30 lentil-rice mixture to 5.26 g/100 g in a cooked whole bean. The rapid digestion rate carbohydrates showed values from 4.8 in the bean soup to 8.9 in the bean-spaghetti combination. The same results show, expressed as rapid available glucose (RAG), the amount of rapid carbohydrate/100 g food or meal as eaten, and as the starch digestion index (SDI), the percentage of rapid carbohydrate digestion rate in relation to the total amount of carbohydrate. The RAG values ranged between 5.0 for cooked beans and 10 for cooked beans and spaghetti, and the SDI ranged between 40 for cooked pea flour and 62 for cooked bean flour. Legumes prepared as soup showed a higher rapid digestion rate than legumes prepared as whole grain. The bean-spaghetti based-meal and the lentil-based meal showed glycemic index mean and standard deviation values of 76.8 +/- 43.4 and 49.3 +/- 29.5, RAG values of 7.0 and 6.0, and SDI values of 57 and 54, respectively. The knowledge of the importance of the carbohydrate digestion rates in human health in increasing, and probably will soon be used in the development of the food pyramid. The foods with a moderate fraction of rapid digestion rate, such as legumes, should be included in the base of the pyramid.
12701378	The kdr mutation, conferring resistance to pyrethroid insecticides, has been reported in several West-African populations of Anopheles gambiae S form and in the M form populations from tropical forest of Benin. We report the finding of a single M specimen collected in the rice-field area of Vallée du Kou (Burkina Faso) showing the mutation at the heterozygous state. The monitoring of kdr mutation in An. gambiae forms/species is of paramount importance to implement effective malaria control tools and may greatly improve the knowledge of the relationship between and within An. gambiae populations.
12701419	Rice brown spot is one of the important diseases in the world including Iran. 91 samples of the infected plants such as leaves and panicles were collected from different locations of Guilan province, North of Iran and the fungi isolated and studied for pathogenicity. Three species of Bipolaris (B. oryzae, Bipolaris sp. and B. cf. victoriae) were isolated more than other species with serious effects on the plants respectively. Reactions of 8 cultivars of rice, Neda, Nemat, Sepeed-rood, Bejar, Khazar, Domsephid, Hassan-saraee and Binam were studied in greenhouse to Bipolaris sp. and B. cf. victoriae in two stages of growth, on leaves and panicles, respectively. The results showed that in seedling stage on leaf there was no significant difference between these cultivars in case of infection rates. In heading stage, although there was no significant difference according to variance analysis, but according to Duncan test (5%) they could be divided into 3 groups. Neda, Sepeed-rood, Khazar and Binam, with the lowest infection rate, were in the first group Bejar, Domsephid and Hassan-saraee were classified into the second group and Nemat was in the third one. Curvularia sp., Nigrospora sp., Pyricularia grisea and Alternaria sp. were with minor prevalence in infection of the plants.
12701629	In this section we described the structure of the self-administered semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire used in the 5-year follow-up survey of the JPHC study, the computation algorithms, and the area-based mean intakes of nutrients and food groups in the subjects of the validation study. The FFQ consists of five sections: 1) semiquantitative frequency questions for rice and miso (fermented soybean paste)-soup, 2) those for alcoholic beverages, 3) those for vitamin supplements, 4) those for foods and beverages, and 5) questions on dietary and cooking behaviors. From the questions, intakes of nutrients and foods by food groups were computed. Although most of them were computed from the frequency and relative portion size indicated in the replies, together with the fixed portion size, a seasonal coefficient was added in the computation of vegetables and fruits. Only frequency of intake and fixed portion size were used for computation of beverages. Sugar and cream added in coffee and tea were computed from the frequency of coffee and tea intake. The intakes of cooking oil, cooking salt (sodium), and salt in noodle-soup were estimated from the questions of relative preference of oil, salt, and noodle-soup.
12702901	There is currently much call for a reliable enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) protocol for determining gluten in foods to serve as a basis for further Codex Alimentarius regulations. Given its ability to recognize the potential coeliac-toxic epitope QQPFP, which occurs repeatedly in alpha-, gamma- and omega-gliadins, hordeins and secalins, the monoclonal antibody R5 raised against a secalin extract may prove to be an essential tool for gluten analysis. This study was designed to develop a highly sensitive and specific sandwich ELISA to quantify low levels of wheat, barley and rye prolamins in foods for coeliacs. Simple sandwich ELISA based on the use of a single monoclonal antibody (R5) as both the coating and detection was developed. A quantitative cocktail gluten-extraction procedure for heat-processed foods was also tested. R5-ELISA was able to identify gliadins, hordeins and secalins with assay sensitivities of 0.78, 0.39 and 0.39 ng/ml, respectively. The assay's detection limit was 1.5 ng gliadins/ml (1.56 ppm gliadins, 3.2 ppm gluten). The system proved insensitive to the non-coeliac-toxic cereals maize, rice and oats, and was non-cultivar-dependent. It was also able to detect gliadins and hordeins in unprocessed and heat-processed wheat- and barley-based products, and to estimate the gluten content of hydrolysed foods. We present a new generation of a robust sandwich R5-ELISA with good reproducibility (8.7%) and repeatability (7.7%). Its gluten-detection limit of 3.2 ppm is lower than the existing threshold of 20-200 ppm. The ELISA, which is equally sensitive to barley, wheat and rye prolamins, is compatible with the quantitative cocktail extraction procedure for heat-processed foods. Along with the cocktail procedure, the Working Group on Prolamin Analysis and Toxicity is currently evaluating an R5-ELISA system as proposed by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
12704068	This article describes rice bodies found in patients with atypical mycobacterial tenosynovitis and bursitis, emphasizing the sonographic and MR imaging appearances of these small bodies. Rice bodies occur in patients with atypical mycobacterial tenosynovitis and bursitis. When small, rice bodies are better visualized on MR imaging than on sonography, allowing the radiologist to consider appropriate diagnoses.
12706395	The depletion of the ozone layer, and the resulting substantial increase in incident ultraviolet (UV) irradiation and subsequent oxygen radical formation on the Earth, have caused an extensive variety of damage to the world's forests. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), which scavenge harmful oxygen radicals and inhibit lipid peroxides, were examined in two types of Japanese cedars, black pines, and cypresses, namely those with leaves showing premature withering, shedding, or dying and those with leaves not showing these effects prematurely. The effect of homogenates from these trees on lipid peroxide formation in a reaction system which UV light induces was also studied. The results indicate that strong black pines have significantly higher SOD activities than ordinary black pines, the leaves of which prematurely wither or die. Remarkably, trees that had triploid or tetraploid chromosomes showed higher SOD levels than diploid trees and markedly inhibited lipid peroxide formation since the SOD gene resides on a chromosome. This was especially true of plus trees of Japanese cypress, some of which had five times higher SOD activities than common Japanese cypresses although GSH-Px appears to play less of a role in this regard. Rice leaves and osmunda which are resistant to UV damage showed markedly higher SOD and GSH-Px activity. Our experiments suggest that the trees that have high SOD can protect themselves by scavenging oxygen radicals induced by UV irradiation and inhibit harmful lipid peroxide formation. In order to protect forests from oxidative damage by UV light, we should plant trees of natural mutants and artificially crossed triploids and tetraploids.
12707521	The authors, after an excursus on the events that have characterised the territorial attitude in the plain to the north of Bologna, emphasising the strong influence that the work of man has developed (development of the rice growing, presence of the residues for hemp's processing, construction of military defenses, etc.) on the deterioration of this territory, they analyse the characteristics of the malarial endemic that affected the area of Bologna in the XVIII and XIX century. After the specification of the part that the plentiful atmospheric precipitations of the end of XIX century played, they describe the course of the malarial epidemic which affected Bologna between 1899 and 1901. By using a Geographic information System (G.I.S) they state in which places the malaria affected and they point out its epidemiological characteristics.
12707926	Rice embryo proteins were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). A total of 105 spots were digested with trypsin and the resultant peptides were analyzed by matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS). Raw mass spectra were fully-automatically processed and searched with selected monoisotopic masses against SWISS-PROT/TrEMBL and NCBInr databases. High quality mass spectra were obtained from 53 spots, of which 36 spots were identified including 29 not registered in databases. Fifty percent of the rice embryo proteins resolved in 2-DE could not be identified, indicating more efficient sample preparation techniques need to be developed in the future. At least four to five matching peptides were found to be essential for unambiguous identification of rice embryo proteins; peptide matching of less than four lead to ambiguous results. The suitability of peptide mass fingerprinting method as a means of rapid embryo protein identification in rice was discussed.
12708666	Removal of selenium (Se) from agricultural drainage water is very important for protecting wildlife in wetland systems. We conducted a series of experiments on selenite [Se(IV)] adsorption and selenate [Se(VI)] reduction to determine Se removal from drainage water amended with 1000 microg/L of Se(VI) or Se(IV) and 5 g of rice (Oryza sativa L.) straw. Under sterile conditions, the added Se(IV) was not adsorbed to the rice straw within 2 d of the experiment and the added Se(VI) was not reduced within 14 d. In contrast, added Se(VI) in a nonsterile rice-straw solution was reduced rapidly, from 930 microg/L at Day 3 to 20 microg/L at Day 5, with an increase in unprecipitated elemental Se [Se(0)] and total Se(0). In the last several days of the experiments, unprecipitated Se(0) was the major Se form in the rice-straw solution, with a small amount of organic Se(-II). This study showed that Se removal from drainage water in the presence of rice straw involves a two-step process. The first is the microbial reduction of Se(VI) to Se(IV) and then to colloidal Se(0). The second is flocculation and precipitation of colloidal Se(0) to the bottom of the experimental flasks and the surface of rice straw.
12711392	Ultraviolet-damaged DNA binding protein (UV-DDB) is an important factor involved in DNA repair. To study the role of UV-DDB, we attempted to obtain the cDNA and the protein of a plant UV-DDB. We succeeded in isolating both genes for UV-DDB subunits from rice (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare), designated as OsUV-DDB1 and OsUV-DDB2. OsUV-DDB2 (65 kDa) was much larger than human UV-DDB2, but immunoprecipitation and gel mobility shift assay suggested that OsUV-DDB2 is a plant counterpart of UV-DDB2. The transcripts were expressed in proliferating tissues such as the meristem, but were detected at only low levels in the mature leaves, although the leaves are strongly exposed to UV. These transcripts were induced in the meristem after UV-irradiation. The expression levels of OsUV-DDB were significantly reduced when cell proliferation was temporarily halted. These results indicated that the level of OsUV-DDB expression is correlated with cell proliferation, and its expression may be required mostly for DNA repair in DNA replication.
12712162
12712282	Most ecotoxicological risk assessments of wildlife emphasize contaminant exposure through ingestion of food and water. However, the role of incidental ingestion of sediment-bound contaminants has not been adequately appreciated in these assessments. This study evaluates the toxicological consequences of contamination of sediments with metals from hard-rock mining and smelting activities. Lead-contaminated sediments collected from the Coeur d'Alene River Basin in Idaho were combined with either a commercial avian maintenance diet or ground rice and fed to captive mute swans (Cygnus olor) for 6 weeks. Experimental treatments consisted of maintenance or rice diets containing 0, 12 (no rice group), or 24% highly contaminated (3,950 microg/g lead) sediment or 24% reference (9.7 microg/g lead) sediment. Although none of the swans died, the group fed a rice diet containing 24% lead-contaminated sediment were the most severely affected, experiencing a 24% decrease in mean body weight, including three birds that became emaciated. All birds in this treatment group had nephrosis; abnormally dark, viscous bile; and significant (p <or= 0.05) reductions in hematocrit and hemoglobin concentrations compared to their pretreatment levels. This group also had the greatest mean concentrations of lead in blood (3.2 microg/g), brain (2.2 microg/g), and liver (8.5 microg/g). These birds had significant (alpha = 0.05) increases in mean plasma alanine aminotransferase activity, cholesterol, and uric acid concentrations and decreased plasma triglyceride concentrations compared to all other treatment groups. After 14 days of exposure, mean protoporphyrin concentrations increased substantially, and mean delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase activity decreased by more than 95% in all groups fed diets containing highly contaminated sediments. All swans fed diets that contained 24% lead-contaminated sediment had renal acid-fast intranuclear inclusion bodies, which are diagnostic of lead poisoning in waterfowl. Body weight and hematocrit and hemoglobin concentrations in swans on control (no sediment) and reference (uncontaminated) sediment diets remained unchanged. These data provide evidence that mute swans consuming environmentally relevant concentrations of Coeur d'Alene River Basin sediment developed severe sublethal lead poisoning. Furthermore, toxic effects were more pronounced when the birds were fed lead-contaminated sediment combined with rice, which closely resembles the diet of swans in the wild.
12712737	To investigate the levels of arsenic exposure of residents in the arsenic polluted areas near an arsenic mine. To analyse the arsenic levels in environmental samples and hair in the polluted areas and a control area. In three villages of the polluted areas, arsenic levels in soil were 84.17 to 296.19 mg/kg, in river water 0.5 to 14.5 mg/L, in well water and tap water lower than 0.05 mg/L, in rice 0.196 to 0.620 mg/kg. Arsenic intake amounted 195 to 1129 micrograms/day. In the hair, the arsenic contents were from 0.972 to 2.459 micrograms/g, increasing with aging. In the areas near Shimen arsenic mine, arsenic pollution was serious. The levels of arsenic exposure of residents were equal to or even over that of the severe cases of chronic arsenic poisoning reported domestically and abroad.
12713466	A set of Escherichia coli sensor strains was used to evaluate the stress exerted on surrounding bacteria by germinating rice seed exudates. These biosensor strains contain Vibrio fischeri luxCDABE genes fused to the promoters of different genes involved in bacterial responses to environmental stresses. They provided clear evidence for a stress exerted by rice exudates, as shown by the induction of the universal stress protein gene uspA as well as genes of the heat shock regulon, grpE, lon and dnaK. The oxidative stress gene katG, and the post-transcriptional ompF regulator encoded by micF were also activated. The lack of derepression of recA, uvrA and alkA indicated that damage to the DNA was not induced in the E. coli strains tested. Interestingly, resorcinolic lipids extracted from rice root seedlings induced the same promoters as whole exudates, suggesting that these compounds may contribute to the stress exerted by seedling exudates. The results obtained with E. coli biosensors thus indicate that, in vivo, exudates may also exert a selective pressure on root-colonizing bacteria.
12715163	The majority of verified plant disease resistance genes isolated to date are of the NBS-LRR class, encoding proteins with a predicted nucleotide binding site (NBS) and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region. We took advantage of the sequence conservation in the NBS motif to clone, by PCR, gene fragments from barley representing putative disease resistance genes of this class. Over 30 different resistance gene analogs (RGAs) were isolated from the barley cultivar Regatta. These were grouped into 13 classes based on DNA sequence similarity. Actively transcribed genes were identified from all classes but one, and cDNA clones were isolated to derive the complete NBS-LRR protein sequences. Some of the NBS-LRR genes exhibited variation with respect to whether and where particular introns were spliced, as well as frequent premature polyadenylation. DNA sequences related to the majority of the barley RGAs were identified in the recently expanded public rice genomic sequence database, indicating that the rice sequence can be used to extract a large proportion of the RGAs from barley and other cereals. Using a combination of RFLP and PCR marker techniques, representatives of all barley RGA gene classes were mapped in the barley genome, to all chromosomes except 4H. A number of the RGA loci map in the vicinity of known disease resistance loci, and the association between RGA S-120 and the nematode resistance locus Ha2 on chromosome 2H was further tested by co-segregation analysis. Most of the RGA sequences reported here have not been described previously, and represent a useful resource as candidates or molecular markers for disease resistance genes in barley and other cereals.
12715251	Eight lignocellulosic by-products were evaluated as substrates for cultivation of the oyster mushroom, Pleurotus ostreatus (Jacq. ex. fr) Kummer. The yields of mushroom on the different substrates were 183.1, 151.8, 111.5, 87.8, 49.5, 23.3, 13.0 and 0.0 g for composted sawdust of Triplochiton scleroxylon, rice straw, banana leaves, maize stover, corn husk, rice husk, fresh sawdust, and elephant grass, respectively. The biological efficiency (BE) followed the same pattern and ranged from 61.0% for composted sawdust to 0.0% for elephant grass. The yield of mushroom was positively correlated to cellulose (r(2) =0.6), lignin (r(2) =0.7) and fibre (r(2) =0.7) contents of the substrates. Based on the yield and BE of the substrates tested, rice straw appeared to be the best alternate substrate for growing oyster mushrooms.
12715833	Gene prediction relies on the identification of characteristic features of coding sequences that distinguish them from non-coding DNA. The recent large-scale sequencing of entire genomes from higher eukaryotes, in conjunction with currently used gene prediction algorithms, has provided an abundance of putative genes that can now be analysed for their compositional properties. Strong, systematic differences still exist, in several species, between the compositional properties of sets of ex novo predicted genes and genes that have been experimentally detected and/or verified. This is particularly evident in the estimated gene set (>45,000 genes) of the recently sequenced rice genome, where roughly half the predicted genes are compositionally unusual and have no known orthologues in the dicot Arabidopsis. In a few cases such differences might suggest a bias in experimental gene-finding protocols, but the quasi-random nature of the compositionally aberrant predicted genes is a strong indication that many, if not most, of them are false positives. It therefore appears that some important features of coding regions have not yet been taken into account in existing gene prediction programs. Statistical base compositional properties of curated gene data sets from vertebrates, which we briefly review here, should therefore provide a useful benchmark for fine-tuning probabilistic gene models and model parameters that are currently in use.
12716666	Few studies have examined food consumption patterns in relation to biological risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The objective of the study was to describe food consumption patterns in the general Dutch population and their association with cardiovascular risk factors. We performed a cross-sectional study of 19 750 randomly selected men and women aged 20-65 y from 3 Dutch municipalities. Food consumption patterns were identified with the use of factor analysis of data from a validated food-frequency questionnaire. Three food consumption patterns were identified: the "cosmopolitan" pattern (greater intakes of fried vegetables, salad, rice, chicken, fish, and wine), the "traditional" pattern (greater intakes of red meat and potatoes and lesser intakes of low-fat dairy and fruit), and the "refined-foods" pattern (greater intakes of French fries, high-sugar beverages, and white bread and lesser intakes of whole-grain bread and boiled vegetables). Higher scores for the traditional pattern were associated with older age, and higher scores for the refined-foods pattern were associated with younger age, but both were associated with lower educational level, cigarette smoking, less physical activity, and higher body mass index. Independent of other lifestyle factors and body mass index, the cosmopolitan-pattern score was significantly associated with lower blood pressure and higher HDL-cholesterol concentrations, and the traditional-pattern score was associated with higher blood pressure and higher concentrations of HDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, and glucose. The refined-foods-pattern score was associated with higher total cholesterol concentrations and lower intakes of micronutrients. In this Dutch population, food consumption patterns were independently associated with blood pressure and plasma glucose and cholesterol concentrations.
12716674	Phytic acid in cereal-based and legume-based complementary foods inhibits iron absorption. Low iron absorption from cereal porridges contributes to the high prevalence of iron deficiency in infants from developing countries. The objective was to measure the influence of phytic acid degradation on iron absorption from cereal porridges. An exogenous phytase was used to fully degrade phytic acid during the manufacture of 9 roller-dried complementary foods based on rice, wheat, maize, oat, sorghum, and a wheat-soy blend. Iron absorption from the phytate-free and native phytate porridges prepared with water or milk (wheat only) was measured in adult humans with an extrinsic-label radioiron technique. Ascorbic acid was added to some porridges. When the foods were reconstituted with water, dephytinization increased iron absorption from rice porridge from 1.73% to 5.34% (P < 0.001), from oat from 0.33% to 2.79% (P < 0.0001), from maize from 1.80% to 8.92% (P < 0.0001), from wheat from 0.99% to 11.54% (P < 0.0001), from the wheat-soy blend without ascorbic acid from 1.15% to 3.75% (P < 0.005), and from the wheat-soy blend with ascorbic acid from 2.40% to 8.46% (P < 0.005). Reconstituting wheat porridge with milk instead of water markedly decreased or completely removed the enhancing effect of dephytinization on iron absorption in the presence and absence of ascorbic acid. Dephytinization did not increase iron absorption from high-tannin sorghum porridge reconstituted with water but increased iron absorption from low-tannin sorghum porridge by approximately 2-fold (P < 0.01). Phytate degradation improves iron absorption from cereal porridges prepared with water but not with milk, except from high-tannin sorghum.
12718597	A case-control study was conducted to investigate risk factors for stomach cancer in a rural population in China. Linzhou Cancer Registry was used to identify cases of stomach cancer, aged between 30 and 75 years, diagnosed between January 1998 and April 1999. Three neighbourhood controls were selected for each case, matched according to age, sex and village of residence. A total of 210 cases and 630 controls were interviewed. Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (OR) for factors associated with the risk of cancer. Among characteristics of the residential environment, significantly increased risk was found for: frequent irritation on eyes or throat by soot (OR 5.54, 95% CI 1.42-21.65, p for trend <0.01). This effect was particularly strong in women (OR 19.5, 95% CI 1.28-297.09, p for trend =0.01). Dietary factors that were significantly associated with an increased risk were food grains other than rice, wheat and maize (OR 2.93, 95% 1.16-7.38), pickled or salted vegetables (OR 3.99, 95% CI 1.63-9.75) and preference for a high salt diet (OR 2.58, 95% CI 1.56-4.26). The consumption of vegetables showed a protective effect with an odds ratio of 0.27 (95% CI 0.11-0.61). It follows that a developing economy and improvement in living standards, with associated increased intake of fruit and vegetables and reduced consumption of salt, can contribute to a reduction in the incidence of stomach cancer in the Linzhou population.
12718703	Many epidemiological studies have examined the associations of nutrients and foods with risk of stomach cancer. Few studies have addressed the dietary patterns that reflect various components of food consumption and their interactions. We identified major four dietary patterns; "vegetable and fruit", "Western breakfast", "meat", and "rice/snack" with principal component analysis using food consumption questionnaire in a prospective study of 5,765 middle-aged male workers in Tokyo. After 10 years of follow-up between September 1988 and August 1998, 84 incident cases of stomach cancer were documented. Using proportional hazards regression to estimate risk ratios, we found no clear association between each of dietary pattern and stomach cancer risk. After adjustment for age and other potential confounding factors and after exclusion of the cases diagnosed in first follow-up year, the risk ratio (RR) associated with high tertile compared to low tertile was 0.78(95%CI 0.42-1.44) for "vegetable and fruit" pattern and 0.71(95%CI 0.40-1.24) for "Western breakfast" pattern. The V-shaped associations between dietary patterns and stomach cancer risk were appeared in the "meat" (RR=1.00, 0.55, and 1.10) and the "rice/snack" (RR=1.00, 0.52, and 1.19) patterns, while the linear trend of these associations was statistically on borderline. The roll of overall dietary patterns in predicting stomach cancer risk requires further investigation.
12719540	Introduction and expression of multiple transgenes is frequently required for basic and applied studies. However, at present, multigene transformation is very difficult due to technical limitations of existing methods. Here, we describe a vector system for efficient multigene assembly and transformation. The system consists of a transformation-competent artificial chromosome (TAC)-based acceptor vector together with two donor vectors. By exploiting the CreloxP recombination system and homing endonucleases, multiple rounds of gene assembly cycling were carried out with alternate use of the donor vectors, and multiple genes were sequentially delivered into the TAC vector. With this system, we created constructs containing as many as 10 foreign DNA fragments. Multiple genes, including six resistant genes stacked in a construct, were transferred into rice genome by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. This system extends the repertoire of molecular genetic studies and biotechnological endeavors by enabling simultaneous manipulation of multiple genes.
12719835
12719836
12721409	Xylanase production of Trichoderma reesei Rut C-30 was examined at different initial pH values (4.8, 5.9, and 7.0) on rice straw in shake flasks, and in a fermentor, for the best pH condition. Enzyme performance was tested on ammonia-treated dwarf elephant grass. The maximum xylanase activities, 92 and 122 IU/mL, were obtained at pH 4.8 in the shake flasks and fermentor, respectively, in which good growth of the fungus was observed during the first 24 h and consumption of proteins dissolved from the rice straw caused the pH to rise later to values between 6.4 and 6.7 (optimal for xylanase production). The xylanases from T. reesei were as effective as Multifect XL, a commercial enzyme preparation, in hydrolyzing ammonia-treated elephant grass.
12721482	Rice straw pretreated with liquid anhydrous ammonia was hydrolyzed with cellulase, cellobiase, and hemicellulase. Ammonia-processing conditions were 1.5 g of NH3/g of dry matter, 85 degrees C, and several sample moisture contents. There were four ammonia addition time (min)-processing time (min) combinations. Sugars produced were analyzed as reducing sugars (dinitrosalicylic acid method) and by high-performance liquid chromatography. Monomeric sugars increased from 11% in the nontreated rice straw to 61% of theoretical in treated rice straw (79.2% conversion as reducing sugars). Production of monosaccharides was greater at higher moisture content and was processing time dependent. Glucose was the monosaccharide produced in greater amounts, 56.0%, followed by xylose, arabinose, and fructose, with 35.8, 6.6, and 1.4%, respectively.
12721584
12721635	To understand the types of gene action controlling seven quantitative traits in rice, QTL mapping was performed to dissect the main effect (M-QTLs) and digenic epistatic (E-QTLs) QTLs responsible for the trait performance of 254 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) of "Lemont/Teqing", and two testcross (TC) F(1) populations derived from these RILs. The correlation analyses reveal a general pattern, i.e. trait heritability in the RILs was negatively correlated to trait heterosis in the TC hybrids. A large number of M-QTLs and E-QTLs affecting seven traits, including heading date (HD), plant height (PH), flag leaf length (FLL), flag leaf width (FLW), panicle length (PL), spikelet number per panicle (SN) and spikelet fertility (SF), were identified and could be classified into two predominant groups, additive QTLs detected primarily in the RILs, and overdominant QTLs identified exclusively in the TC populations. There is little overlap between QTLs identified in the RILs and in the TC populations. This result implied that additive gene action is largely independent from non-additive gene action in the genetic control of quantitative traits of rice. The detected E-QTLs collectively explained a much greater portion of the total phenotypic variation than the M-QTLs, supporting prior findings that epistasis has played an important role in the genetic control of quantitative traits in rice. The implications of these results to the development of inbred and hybrid cultivars were discussed.
12721640	Inheritance of resistance to cyst nematode (Heterodera sacchari) in Oryza sativa was investigated by inoculation tests with isolate 244 from Congo in segregating populations derived from hybridisation between O. sativa and its African sister cultivated species, O. glaberrima. We found that the resistance was controlled by one major gene, Hsa-1(Og), with codominance of susceptible and resistant alleles. To map Hsa-1(Og) on the rice genome, we pooled the data obtained from segregation of the resistance trait and microsatellite markers in three kinds of progeny: BC(1)F(3), BC(1)F(4), and pseudo-F(2) populations. Hsa-1(Og) was unambiguously located between Cornell University's RM206 and RM254 markers on chromosome 11. Two additional microsatellite markers derived from Monsanto publicly available sequences were found to be tightly linked to the Hsa-1(Og) gene. It is possible that numerous plant resistances to a pathogen in fact exhibit a codominant inheritance, possibly explaining misleading conclusions in several reports on resistance segregation.
12721786	Cytokinin oxidases/dehydrogenases (CKX) catalyze the irreversible degradation of the cytokinins isopentenyladenine, zeatin, and their ribosides in a single enzymatic step by oxidative side chain cleavage. To date the sequences of 17 fully annotated CKX genes are known, including two prokaryotic genes. The CKX gene families of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice comprise seven and at least ten members, respectively. The main features of CKX genes and proteins are summarized in this review. Individual proteins differ in their catalytic properties, their subcellular localization and their expression domains. The evolutionary development of cytokinin-catabolizing gene families and the individual properties of their members indicate an important role for the fine-tuned control of catabolism to assure proper regulation of cytokinin functions. The use of CKX genes as a tool in studies of cytokinin biology and biotechnological applications is discussed.
12722440	The genotypic differences in P uptake efficiency of three rice varieties (IR74, IR71331 and IR71379) were studied under the P-deficiency condition with hydroponics, and their adaptability to low phosphorus stress about physio-biochemical mechanisms was further studied. The results showed that rice genotypes tolerated low P stress resulted from the co-ordination of P uptake efficiency, internal utilization efficiency and its translocation efficiency. The higher P-efficiency type IR74 and the middle type IR71331 had a higher P uptake efficiency. The rice genotype with higher P-efficiency was characterized by higher activity and desirable kinetic parameters of H2 PO4- uptake, showing lower Km and Cmin, but higher Imax values and relative APase activity, small amount of Km and Cmin. Moreover, under low P stress, the activity of RNase was about ten to fifteen times as high as that of the control (CK), but it had little genotypic differences.
12722442	The cycling and balance of copper in 8 cropping systems, i.e., wheat-rice, rice-rice, rape-soybean, rape-peanut, wheat-sesame, wheat-cotton, pepper-cabbage and radish-eggplant in Jianghan plain of Hubei Province were studied. The results showed that the main output of copper was crop harvesting, up to 85.9%-95.1% of total output, and the output of copper by field runoff and soil leaching was low. The main inputs of copper were organic fertilizer, rainfall, falldrop, and natural return. The inputs of copper from inorganic fertilizer and seeds (seedlings) were low. The balance analysis pointed out that copper had an accumulative trend in two patterns of rice and commercial vegetable ecosystem, and was in balance in upland field ecosystem.
12723603	cDNA of a monosaccharide transporter in rice, OsMST5 (Oryza sativa monosaccharide transporter 5) was cloned and its sugar transport activity was characterized by heterologous expression analysis. The amino acid sequence and topology were similar to the sequences and topology of other plant monosaccharide transporters. Yeast cells co-expressed with OsMST5 cDNA transported some monosaccharide substrates. The transport rate increased when ethanol as an electron donor was added, so the transporter was an energy-dependent active one. Most of the OsMST5 was expressed in panicles before pollination, indicating that it is associated with pollen development in rice.
12723614	A beta-galactosidase was purified 1300-fold by lactosyl-Sepharose 4B and Sephacryl S-200 column chromatographies from the cultured medium of a rice-cell suspension. The purified enzyme appeared as 47 kD and 40 kD polypeptides on SDS-PAGE and had a specific activity of 65.1 units/mg. Optimum activity was observed at pH 3.5 and 60 degrees C. The enzyme released galactose from galactoxyloglucan and pectic galactans.
12723792	A review of the global cycle of methane is presented with emphasis on its isotopic composition. The history of methane mixing ratios, reconstructed from measurements of air trapped in ice-cores is described. The methane record now extends back to 420 kyr ago in the case of the Vostok ice cores from Antarctica. The trends in mixing ratios and in delta13C values are reported for the two Hemispheres. The increase of the atmospheric methane concentration over the past 200 years, and by 1% per year since 1978, reaching 1.7 ppmv in 1990 is underlined. The various methane sources are presented. Indeed the authors describe the methane emissions by bacterial activity under anaerobic conditions in wet environments (wetlands, bogs, tundra, rice paddies), in ruminant stomachs and termite guts, and that originating from fossil carbon sources, such as biomass burning, coal mining, industrial losses, automobile exhaust, sea floor vent, and volcanic emissions. Furthermore, the main sinks of methane in the troposphere, soils or waters via oxidation are also reported, and the corresponding kinetic isotope effects.
12724540	Surveys for conserved noncoding sequences (CNS) among genes from monocot cereal species were conducted to assess the general properties of CNS in grass genomes and their correlation with known promoter regulatory elements. Initial comparisons of 11 orthologous maize-rice gene pairs found that previously defined regulatory motifs could be identified within short CNS but could not be distinguished reliably from random sequence matches. Among the different phylogenetic footprinting algorithms tested, the VISTA tool yielded the most informative alignments of noncoding sequence. VISTA was used to survey for CNS among all publicly available genomic sequences from maize, rice, wheat, barley, and sorghum, representing >300 gene comparisons. Comparisons of orthologous maize-rice and maize-sorghum gene pairs identified 20 bp as a minimal length criterion for a significant CNS among grass genes, with few such CNS found to be conserved across rice, maize, sorghum, and barley. The frequency and length of cereal CNS as well as nucleotide substitution rates within CNS were consistent with the known phylogenetic distances among the species compared. The implications of these findings for the evolution of cereal gene promoter sequences and the utility of using the nearly completed rice genome sequence to predict candidate regulatory elements in other cereal genes by phylogenetic footprinting are discussed.
12724573	A vestibulocerebellar disorder was observed in 2- to 4-month-old swine after consumption of broken rice contaminated with 13% Aeschynomene indica seeds. Affected animals recovered in 2-14 days after removal of the contaminated food. To reproduce the syndrome, 10 pigs were fed 13% A. indica seeds in commercial pig ration or rice. They showed clinical signs similar to those observed in the spontaneous cases, 1 hour to 6 days after ingestion. Three pigs recovered after the withdrawal of the contaminated food. The others were killed. Two pigs that were fed for 25 days with food containing 3% and 6% seeds and two control pigs did not show clinical signs. Histologic lesions were characterized by symmetric focal degeneration in the cerebellar and vestibular nuclei. The initial lesion, observed 24 hours after the first ingestion, was characterized by vacuolation of the neuropil. Subsequently, there was progressive loss of parenchyma, vascular reaction, a few small spheroids, astrocytosis, and accumulation of gitter cells. The brains from four pigs were perfused with a buffered solution of glutaraldehyde-paraformaldehyde 12-48 hours after they started to ingest the seeds. No ultrastructural lesions were observed in the cerebellar nuclei after 12 hours of seed consumption. At 24 hours, endothelial cells and pericytes were separated by empty spaces from astrocyte foot processes, suggesting perivascular edema. The astrocytes were enlarged, consistent with intracellular fluid accumulation. These results suggest that A. indica seeds are toxic, causing functional derangement of the vestibulocerebellar system, followed by alterations in the microvasculature in the cerebellar and vestibular nuclei.
12724926	Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among women in the United States. Established risk factors include advancing age, early menarche, late menopause, positive first relative, late age of first birth and socioeconomic status. Mississippi has a combination of risk factors making it suitable for studying the pathways of breast cancer etiology. The purpose of this study was to analyze pesticide exposure and the risk of breast cancer mortality. Data for this study consisted of secondary analyses of the Mississippi age-adjusted breast cancer mortality aggregated by period (1970-1994). The total number of acres planted during 1997-2000 for each Statistical Economic Area (SEA) and by type of crop was used as proxy measure for pesticide exposure. Analyses by SEA revealed potential evidence for an association between pesticide exposure and risk of breast cancer mortality in three areas: Greenville, Corinth and Yazoo. The total number of acres planted was positively and significantly associated with female breast cancer mortality rate, and these associations differed by race and type of crop. The strongest correlation was between breast cancer mortality rate for white women and rice crops planted in Yazoo (rho = 0.674, p < 0.030). Moderate correlations were found between African-American breast cancer mortality rates and total acres planted in Corinth (rho = 0.667, p < 0.049), catfish crops in Greenville (rho = 0.648, p < 0.031), and although not statistically significant (p < 0.066) also with total planted acres in Greenville (rho = 0.573). In conclusion, there are moderate statistically significant associations between number of acres of crops planted and the mortality rate from breast cancer in Mississippi. The association varies by state economic area, race and type of crop planted.
12725054	In order to evaluate the safety of anti-herbicide gene(BAR) transgenic rice, acute toxicity experiments, mutation experiments and a 30-day feeding test were conducted. The results were as follows: The oral LD50 for mice and rats was larger than 21.5 g/kg BW and no mutation was found. The rats consuming 16.32 and 64 g/kg BW were in good growth and development at the 30-day feeding test. The body weight, food utilization, routine blood tests, the ratio of organ weight to body weight, and patho-histological observations had no obvious change. The none effect dosage for the transgene rice was 64 g/kg.
12725067	In order to observe the antiatherosclerotic effects of black and red rice and to find out their mechanism, 24 New Zealand male white rabbits (average body weight 1.91 kg) were divided randomly into three groups (white rice, black rice and red rice groups). The rabbits were fed a cholesterol-enriched diet (cholesterol 5 g/kg, lard 35 g/kg) containing 300 g/kg white, black and red rice powder respectively. The rabbits were sacrificed 10 weeks later. The aorta was dissected and stained in 0.5% oilred-isopropanol solution. The plaque area and total area of aorta were measured by an automatic image analyzer. Serum lipids were determined by an automatic analyzer. The results showed that the plaque area (% of total surface) in the black and red rice groups was significantly lower than that in the white rice group (P < 0.05). Serum TG, TC, LDL-C, ApoB and ApoAI/ApoB were not significantly different among the three groups (P > 0.05). However, the concentrations of HDL-C and ApoAI were significantly higher in the black and red rice groups than those in the white groups (P < 0.05). No significant difference was found between the black and red rice groups. It is concluded that black and red rice might be effective in reducing atherosclerotic plaques on the aorta of rabbits fed a cholesterol-enriched diet. The effectiveness of black and red rice against atherosclerosis might be related to the high level of serum HDL-C and ApoAI.
12728993	Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a potent innate immunity system in plants that is induced through the salicylic acid-mediated pathway. N-cyanomethyl-2-chloroisonicotinamide (NCI) is able to induce a broad range of disease resistance in tobacco and rice and induces SAR marker gene expression without SA accumulation in tobacco. To clarify the detailed mode of action of NCI, we analyzed its ability to induce defense gene expression and resistance in Arabidopsis mutants that are defective in various defense signaling pathways. Wild-type Arabidopsis treated with NCI exhibited increased expression of several pathogenesis-related genes and enhanced resistance to the bacterial pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000. NCI induced disease resistance and PR gene expression in NahG transgenic plants, but not in the npr1 mutant. NCI could induce PR gene expression in the etr1-1, ein2-1 and jar1-1 mutants. Thus, NCI activates SAR, independently from ethylene and jasmonic acid, by stimulating the site between SA and NPR1.
12728997	A cDNA encoding a predicted 15-kDa protein was earlier isolated from sugar-induced genes in rice embryos (Oryza sativa L.) by cDNA microarray analysis. Here we report that this cDNA encodes a novel Ca2+-binding protein, named OsSUR1 (for Oryza sativa sugar-up-regulated-1). The recombinant OsSUR1 protein expressed in Escherichia coli had 45Ca2+-binding activity. Northern analysis showed that the OsSUR1 gene was expressed mainly in the internodes of mature plants and in embryos at an early stage of germination. Expression of the OsSUR1 gene was induced by sugars that could serve as substrates of hexokinase, but expression was not repressed by Ca2+ signaling inhibitors, calmodulin antagonists and inhibitors of protein kinase or protein phosphatase. These results suggested that Os-SUR1 gene expression was stimulated by a hexokinase-dependent pathway not mediated by Ca2+.
12729014	The release characteristics of flavor in boiling water and the flavor retention in the rice after cooking were investigated by using spray dried powder in encapsulated in or emulsified with d-limonene or ethyl n-hexanoate in cyclodextrin and maltodextrin, or in gum arabic and maltodextrin. The behavior of flavor release into the boiling water was well simulated by Avrami's equation. The retention of d-limonene and ethyl n-hexanoate in cooked rice was correlated in each case with the flavor amount of spray-dried powder added.
12729213	Reduction of structural Fe(III) in smectite clay minerals has been identified as a means to promote dechlorination of polychlorinated ethanes, but its environmental significance has yet to be fully assessed because Fe reduction has normally been achieved by agents uncommon in the environment (e.g., dithionite). This study reports the dehydrochlorination of pentachloroethane and 1,1,1-trichloroethane in the presence of ferruginous smectite reduced by two cultures of microorganisms, Shewanella oneidensis strain MR-1 (MR-R) and an enrichment culture from rice paddy soils (PS-R), in aqueous suspension under anoxic conditions. Microbially reduced ferruginous smectite facilitated dehydrochlorination of 1,1,1-trichloroethane to 1,1-dichloroethene with up to 60% conversion within 3 h of incubation time. In contrast, no formation of 1,1-dichloroethene was observed after incubation of 1,1,1-trichloroethane with chemically reduced ferruginous smectite for 24 h. Microbially reduced ferruginous smectite by MR-R and PS-R promoted the dehydrochlorination of pentachloroethane to tetrachloroethene by 80 and 15%, respectively, after 3 h of incubation time. The conversion of pentachloroethane to tetrachloroethene in the presence of chemically reduced ferruginous smectite after 24 h was 65%. These results indicate that structural Fe(II) in clay minerals has the potential to be an important reductant controlling the fate of organic chemicals in contaminated sediments.
12729913	Fractionation of proteins from the thylakoid lumen of spinach chloroplasts combined with peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase (PPIase) measurements revealed a major isomerase activity that was ascribed to a novel enzyme TLP20 (thylakoid lumen PPIase of 20 kDa). TLP20 was inhibited by cyclosporin A and mass spectrometric sequencing of tryptic peptides confirmed its classification as a cyclophilin. Genes encoding similar putative thylakoid cyclophilins with a unique insert of three amino acids NPV in their N-termini were found in chromosome 5 of both Arabidopsis and rice. TLP20 is suggested to be the major PPIase and protein folding catalyst in the thylakoid lumen of plant chloroplasts.
12730012	In human food allergy, with or without concurrent atopy, there may be significant increases in serum allergen-specific IgE. Serological methods have been tried but are not currently recommended for diagnosis of suspected food allergy in dogs. The aim of this study was to investigate humoral immune responses to food antigens in dogs. Serum IgG and IgE antibodies specific for food antigens were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using polyclonal anti-dog IgG and IgE reagents. Antigens tested were beef, chicken, pork, lamb, chicken, turkey, white fish, whole egg, wheat, soybean, barley, rice, maize corn, potato, yeast and cow's milk. Three groups were examined: normal dogs, dogs with atopic dermatitis (AD); and dogs with one of four types of gastrointestinal (GI) disease: small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), food-responsive disease, and infectious diarrhoea. Statistically significant differences in food-specific antibodies were not detected between the GI subgroups. There were statistically significant differences in the IgE concentration between the normal dogs, and dogs with atopic or GI disease, for all of the antigens tested. There were statistically significant differences in the average IgG concentrations between the normal dogs, and dogs with atopic or GI disease, for all of the antigens tested, except egg and yeast. The relationship of antigen responses for pooled data was analysed using principle component analysis and cluster plots. Some clustering of variables was apparent for both IgE and IgG. For example, all dogs (normal and diseased) made a similar IgG antibody response to chicken and turkey. Compared with other groups, atopic dogs had more food allergen-specific IgE and this would be consistent with a Th(2) humoral response to food antigens. Dogs with GI disease had more food allergen-specific IgG compared with the other groups. This may reflect increased antigen exposure due to increased mucosal permeability which is a recognised feature of canine intestinal disease.
12730263	The glycine-serine interconversion, catalysed by glycine decarboxylase and serine hydroxymethyltransferase, is an important reaction of primary metabolism in all organisms including plants, by providing one-carbon units for many biosynthetic reactions. In plants, in addition, it is an integral part of the photorespiratory metabolic pathway and produces large amounts of photorespiratory CO(2) within mitochondria. Although controversial, there is significant evidence that this process, by the relocation of glycine decarboxylase within the leaves from the mesophyll to the bundle-sheath, contributed to the evolution of C(4) photosynthesis. In this review, some aspects of current knowledge about glycine decarboxylase and serine hydroxymethyltransferase and the role of these enzymes in metabolism, about the corresponding genes and their expression as well as about mutants and anti-sense plants related to these genes or processes will be summarized and discussed. From a comparison of the available information about the number and organization of GDC and SHMT genes in the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa it appears that these and, possibly, other genes related to photorespiration, are similarly organized even in only very distantly related angiosperms.
12730378	Winter wheats require several weeks at low temperature to flower. This process, vernalization, is controlled mainly by the VRN1 gene. Using 6,190 gametes, we found VRN1 to be completely linked to MADS-box genes AP1 and AGLG1 in a 0.03-centimorgan interval flanked by genes Cysteine and Cytochrome B5. No additional genes were found between the last two genes in the 324-kb Triticum monococcum sequence or in the colinear regions in rice and sorghum. Wheat AP1 and AGLG1 genes were similar to Arabidopsis meristem identity genes AP1 and AGL2, respectively. AP1 transcription was regulated by vernalization in both apices and leaves, and the progressive increase of AP1 transcription was consistent with the progressive effect of vernalization on flowering time. Vernalization was required for AP1 transcription in apices and leaves in winter wheat but not in spring wheat. AGLG1 transcripts were detected during spike differentiation but not in vernalized apices or leaves, suggesting that AP1 acts upstream of AGLG1. No differences were detected between genotypes with different VRN1 alleles in the AP1 and AGLG1 coding regions, but three independent deletions were found in the promoter region of AP1. These results suggest that AP1 is a better candidate for VRN1 than AGLG1. The epistatic interactions between vernalization genes VRN1 and VRN2 suggested a model in which VRN2 would repress directly or indirectly the expression of AP1. A mutation in the promoter region of AP1 would result in the lack of recognition of the repressor and in a dominant spring growth habit.
12730417	Macroeconomic food policies have the potential to reduce malnutrition by improving access to food, a determinant of nutritional status. However, very little is understood about the mechanisms and the magnitude of the effects of macroeconomic food policies such as food price policies on nutritional status. Data collected by the Nutritional Surveillance Project on a total of 81,337 children aged 6-59 mo in rural Bangladesh between 1992 and 2000 were used to examine how changes in rice price affect child underweight. Rice consumption per capita declined only slightly during the period but rice expenditure per capita varied widely due to fluctuations in rice price. Rice expenditure was positively correlated with the percentage of underweight children (r = 0.91, P = 0.001). Households were found to spend more on nonrice foods as their rice expenditure declined, and nonrice expenditure per capita was negatively correlated with the percentage of underweight children (r = -0.91, P = 0.001). Expenditure on nonrice foods per capita increased with the frequency with which nonrice foods were consumed (P < 0.05) and with the diversity of the diet (P < 0.001). The findings suggest that the percentage of underweight children declined when rice expenditure fell because households were able to spend more on nonrice foods and thereby increase the quantity and quality of their diet. We hypothesize that macroeconomic food policies that keep the price of food staples low can contribute toward reducing child underweight.
12732507	Methane oxidation in soils is mostly accomplished by methanotrophic bacteria. Little is known about the abundance of methanotrophs in soils, since quantification by cultivation and microscopic techniques is cumbersome. Comparison of 16S ribosomal DNA and pmoA (alpha subunit of the particulate methane monooxygenase) phylogenetic trees showed good correlation and revealed five distinct groups of methanotrophs within the alpha and gamma subclasses of Proteobacteria: the Methylococcus group, the Methylobacter/Methylosarcina group, the Methylosinus group, the Methylocapsa group, and the forest clones group (a cluster of pmoA sequences retrieved from forest soils). We developed quantitative real-time PCR assays with SybrGreen for each of these five groups and for all methanotrophic bacteria by targeting the pmoA gene. Detection limits were between 10(1) and 10(2) target molecules per reaction for all assays. Real-time PCR analysis of soil samples spiked with cells of Methylococcus capsulatus, Methylomicrobium album, and Methylosinus trichosporium recovered almost all the added bacteria. Only the Methylosinus-specific assay recovered only 20% of added cells, possibly due to a lower lysis efficiency of type II methanotrophs. Analysis of the methanotrophic community structure in a flooded rice field soil showed (5.0 +/- 1.4) x 10(6) pmoA molecules g(-1) for all methanotrophs. The Methylosinus group was predominant (2.7 x 10(6) +/- 1.1 x 10(6) target molecules g(-1)). In addition, bacteria of the Methylobacter/Methylosarcina group were abundant (2.0 x 10(6) +/- 0.9 x 10(6) target molecules g of soil(-1)). On the other hand, pmoA affiliated with the forest clones and the Methylocapsa group was below the detection limit of 1.9 x 10(4) target molecules g of soil(-1). Our results showed that pmoA-targeted real-time PCR allowed fast and sensitive quantification of the five major groups of methanotrophs in soil. This approach will thus be useful for quantitative analysis of the community structure of methanotrophs in nature.
12732972	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the bacterial blight pathogen of rice, is known to produce phytotoxic polysaccharides. The extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) was isolated from virulent (BXO1) and virulence-deficient gum G mutant (BXO1002) strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and characterized using fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Data from the FT-IR suggested that the aldehyde (R-CHO) group and C=O of acid anhydride are present in BXO1 but absent in BXO1002. The (1)H-NMR spectra showed the presence of an acetyl amine of hexose or pentose, free amines of glucose, an beta-anomeric carbon of hexose and pentose, hydrogen next to hydroxyl group, an acetyl amine of hexose and pentose in the polysaccharides of both BXO1 and BXO1002, and the absence of alpha-anomeric carbon of hexose or pentose and the glucuronic acid in the polysaccharides produced by BXO1002. The test for glucuronic acid also confirmed the absence of glucuronic acid in the polysaccharides of BXO1002 and the presence glucuronic acid (32 microg/mg) in the polysaccharides produced by BXO1.
12733048	A comparison of the results obtained by applying three spectrophotometric methods (at fixed wavelength, second-derivative and multicomponent analysis) to the determination of gamma-oryzanol in rice bran oil is reported. At fixed wavelength the results are more accurate when using isopropyl alcohol, rather than n-heptane, to dilute the oil samples, because the absorption bands of gamma-oryzanol are red-shifted and the absorbance, measured at lambda(max)=327 nm, is less affected by the interference of the oil "matrix" (lambda(max)=314 nm in n-heptane).However, to obtain accurate results also in oils with a low content of gamma-oryzanol, it is necessary to perform the analysis using second-derivative ((2)D330.365) or multicomponent (lambda=310-360 nm) methods. The first one fully removes the interference of oil matrix whilst the second, which needs a specific computational program to process the spectrophotometric data, furnishes evidence the presence of some unexpected interference in the analysis and/or standards which are not representative of the analysed samples, from the square root of the sum of the squared differences at each point between the linear combination of the standards and the unknown spectra (RMS error).Finally, some aspects of the chemical, spectroscopic (UV, IR) and thermoanalytical (TG, DSC) behaviour of gamma-oryzanol and the values of the parameters which enable "computation" of its UV spectra are reported.
12733574	Eucalyptus hemicellulose was hydrolyzed by treating eucalyptus wood chips with sulfuric acid. The hydrolyzate was used as the substrate to produce single-cell protein by growing Paecilomyces variotii IOC-3764 for 72 or 96 h. The influences of rice bran, ammonium sulfate and fermentation time were verified by a 23 full-factorial central composite design. At the optimum process conditions, the cell concentration was 12.06 g/l, which was obtained when the microorganisms were cultivated for 89 h in a medium composed of 10 g/l rice bran, 2.0 g/l nitrogen and 1.1 g/l sodium phosphate. The mathematical model Y = 10.65 + 2.40X2 + 2.36X3 + 1.16X2X3 - 2.10X2(2) - 1.06X3(2) describes biomass production by P. variotii in eucalyptus hemicellulosic hydrolyzate with a determination coefficient of R2 = 0.9561, where X2 and X3 are ammonium sulfate and fermentation time, respectively.
12733576	The present study is concerned with the selection of new medium for the production of alpha amylase by Bacillus licheniformis. Different agricultural by-products such as wheat bran, sunflower meal, cotton seed meal, soybean meal, rice husk or rice bran were tested for the production of alpha amylase. Among different agricultural by-products evaluated, wheat bran was found to be the best basal and standardized medium for optimal production of alpha amylase. The production was increased 2-folds when soluble starch was replaced with pearl millet starch at 1% level and nutrient broth concentrations was reduced from 1% level to 0.5%. The newly selected fermentation medium containing (% w/v) wheat bran 1.25, nutrient broth 0.5, pearl millet starch 1.0, lactose 0.5, NaCl 0.5, CaCl2 0.2 in 100 ml of phosphate buffer. The kinetic values of Y(p/x), Y(p/s), and Q(p) indicated that the production of enzyme was greater in newly selected medium than the conventional more expensive medium.
12733629	Freshly harvested soybean, rice and corn from farms and corn-based pelleted feeds were collected from ranches from the coastal and mountain regions in Ecuador during 1998, and assessed for fungal contamination. The most prevalent fungi on pelleted feed were Aspergillus flavus and Fusarium graminearum. The prevalent fungi recovered from soybean were F. verticillioides, F. semitectum, Aspergillus flavus and A. ochraceus. In rice, F. oxysporum was the most prevalent toxigenic fungal species recorded, followed by F. verticillioides and A. flavus. In corn, F. verticillioides was the most prevalent fungus isolated in both the coastal and mountain regions, with high isolation frequencies of A. flavus and A. parasiticus at the coast. Based on the toxigenic species recovered, ochratoxin A may pose a contamination risk for soybean. A higher probability of aflatoxin contamination of corn was found in the coastal samples compared to those of the mountain region, while a risk of fumonisin contamination of corn exists in both regions.
12733631	Inadequate information about the genetic structure of the polyphagous Rhizoctonia solani has made sheath blight resistance breeding a difficult task. To assess the variability in the Indian populations of sheath blight fungus, 18 isolates were collected from different rice growing regions of India and analyzed for virulence and electrophoretic profiles of 13 isozymes. The virulence spectrum of all 18 isolates was examined on susceptible IR50 and tolerant Swarnadhan varieties, based on which the isolates could be grouped as highly virulent, moderately virulent or avirulent. A total of 11 enzyme systems with 153 electrophoretic phenotypes were applied to characterize the genetic variation among the isolates. Cluster analyses based on isozyme patterns resulted in one major cluster comprising 16 virulent isolates, with two avirulent isolates loosely linked to this at 0.13 similarity. Isozyme systems of esterases (both alpha and beta) and 6-phosphogluconic dehydrogenase could be used to fingerprint the individual isolates.
12733749	The current study was carried out to examine the effects of policosanols and phytosterols, alone and in combination, on lipid profiles, cholesterol biosynthesis, and tissue histopathological changes in hamsters. Fifty male Golden Syrian hamsters, weighing 100 to 120 g, were fed a regular rodent chow for 2 wk before being randomly assigned into 5 groups of 10 animals each fed semisynthetic diets for 4 wk. Group 1 was given a control diet that contained 0.25% cholesterol and 5% fat with a PUFA to saturated FA ratio of 0.4. Groups 2 to 5 were fed the control diet and given Octa-6 [a policosanol mixture from sugar cane wax, 25 mg/kg body weight (BW)], Ricewax (a policosanol mixture from rice wax with 50% being converted to the corresponding acids, 50 mg/kg BW), phytosterols (Cholestatin; 1,000 mg/kg BW), and Ricewax (50 mg/kg BW) plus phytosterols (1,000 mg/kg BW), respectively. The results showed that there was no difference between Octa-6 and Ricewax treatments in any of the lipid parameters measured, and both had similar levels of triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (T-C), and HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) as the control. Octa-6 but not Ricewax increased (P = 0.03) non-HDL-C as compared with the control. Phytosterols reduced T-C (P < 0.0003) and HDL-C (P < 0.004) without a significant effect on TG and non-HDL-C as compared to the control. Ricewax plus phytosterols had effects similar to those with phytosterols alone. Free cholesterol synthetic rates were not different among the treatments. Policosanols or phytosterols did not show any toxic effects in liver, heart, brain, or kidney. Results suggest that, although phytosterols reduce T-C and HDL-C levels, policosanols have no significant favorable effect in changing lipid levels in hamsters.
12734624	Although most edible vegetables do not accumulate As at a high rate, rice, carrots and certain others are exceptions. In addition to nutritional or toxicological considerations, the relatively high level and variety of As species present in rice make it a very suitable matrix for a candidate reference material representative of terrestrial biological samples.An analytical procedure was developed for As speciation in rice based on the use of a 1:1 methanol-water mixture for species extraction, an anion Hamilton PRPX-100 column (at pH 6, and phosphate mobile phase 10 mM), and a cation Hamilton PRP-X200 column (at pH 2.8 in pyridine formiate 4 mM) for species separation and final determination by HPLC-ICP-MS. The detection limits for dry flour rice expressed as As were 2 and 3 ng g(-1) for As(III) and AsB on the cation column and 3, 6 and 5 ng g(-1) for As(V), MMA and DMA, respectively, on the anion column. The methodology developed was applied to check the stability of As species in the water-methanol extract and also under different processing steps and storage time and temperature conditions. It was demonstrated that the As species in the water-methanol extracts stored at +4 degrees C remained stable for at least one month. Once the rice grains are ground, the MMA and As(V) species are not stable under any storage conditions probably due to microbiological activity. When ground rice is gamma-irradiated species remain stable although the AsB does not appear.
12734656	PCR-RF-SSCP (PRS), which combines cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) and single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP), is expected to be a useful technique for DNA polymorphism analysis. We evaluated the ability of PRS to detect single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) using the Waxy gene, Wx, of rice, and subsequently were able to identify point mutations in wx mutant lines. The approximately 6-kb Wx gene was divided into five regions for PCR amplification. Two regions, in which most of the point mutations of the wx mutants have been identified, were amplified by PCR and cloned into a vector, and those clones containing SNPs produced as a result of the inherent inaccuracy of PCR were used for the evaluation of PRS. The efficiency of PRS in the detection of SNPs of these clones was over 70%. PRS analysis of the wx genes in 18 waxy mutants was carried out in the five regions using two different restriction endonucleases and two gel conditions, with and without glycerol. Of the 18 lines tested, 17 showed band patterns different from that of the wild type. Most of the mutations identified in this study were nucleotide changes in exons, which result in amino acid changes. One mutation generated an in-frame stop codon, and another was a frame shift mutation by one-base deletion. Two mutations found at a splice site were considered to inhibit normal splicing of mRNA. These results show that PRS is a useful technique for detecting point mutations in large plant genes.
12734683	Pylorus-preserving distal gastrectomy (PPG) has frequently been performed on patients with early gastric cancer in Japan to prevent the postgastrectomy syndrome seen after conventional distal gastrectomy (CDG). The long-term postoperative quality of life (QOL) and gastric emptying function in patients after PPG has not been assessed in detail. To clarify the usefulness of PPG for treating early gastric cancer we investigated the relation between postgastrectomy syndrome and gastric emptying function 5 years after PPG and then compared the results with those 5 years after CDG. Altogether, 32 patients who underwent curative gastrectomy at our clinic for early gastric cancer (submucosal cancer without lymph node metastasis) were studied. Ten subjects who underwent PPG with D2 lymphadenectomy without preserving the hepatic and pyloric branches of the vagal nerve [group A: eight men, two women; age 33-70 years (mean 60.7 years)] were interviewed and asked about appetite, weight loss, epigastric fullness, reflux esophagitis, and early dumping syndrome. They were compared with patients after CDG [group B: 36-72 years (mean 63.6 years)]. Esophagogastric endoscopy, abdominal ultrasonography, and gastric emptying function were also studied. The gastric emptying time of a semisolid diet was measured with a radioisotope method using (99m)Tc-labeled rice gruel; the gastric emptying time of a liquid diet was measured with the acetaminophen method using orange juice. The control subjects (group C) consisted of 18 healthy volunteers (10 men, 8 women) without gastrointestinal symptoms aged 38 to 68 years (mean 60.8 years). The following results were obtained: PPG (group A) alleviated postoperative gastrointestinal symptoms such as appetite loss, reflux esophagitis, early dumping syndrome, lost body weight, endoscopic reflux esophagitis, endoscopic gastritis in the remnant stomach, and postogastrectomy cholecystolithiasis better than did CDG (group B). The only weak point with the PPG procedure was that it produced a feeling of epigastric fullness. The pattern of the gastric emptying curve for the semisolid diet was almost the same among groups A, B, and C, although delayed gastric emptying was clearly more frequent in group A than in group B or C (p < 0.05). Gastric emptying with the liquid diet in group B was significantly faster than that in groups A and C (p < 0.01). Gastric emptying in groups A and C was similar. These results showed that PPG improved the postoperative QOL, but the delayed emptying of semisolid diet after PPG led to a feeling of epigastric fullness after meals due to retention of contents in the residual stomach. Epigastric fullness after meals continued in many patients after PPG. Thus the only disadvantage of the PPG procedure is the sensation of epigastric fullness and gastric stasis due to delayed gastric emptying of a semisolid diet.
1273594	Aflatoxin B1, B2, G1, and G2 are produced when a variant of Aspergillus oryzae (NRRL strain 1988) is grown on cowpeas or rice. The present study indicates that a strain of Aspergillus oryzae approved for use in food processing is variable and the resulting variant, unlike the parent strain, has a propensity to produce aflatoxin.
12736310	Using a powerful computer-assisted analysis strategy, a large-scale search of small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) genes in the recently released draft sequence of the rice genome was carried out. This analysis identified 120 different box C/D snoRNA genes with a total of 346 gene variants, which were predicted to guide 135 2'-O-ribose methylation sites in rice rRNAs. Though not exhaustive, this analysis has revealed that rice has the highest number of known box C/D snoRNAs among eukaryotes. Interestingly, although many snoRNA genes are conserved between rice and Arabidopsis, almost half of the identified snoRNA genes are rice specific, which may highlight further the differences in rRNA methylation patterns between monocotyledons and dicotyledons. In addition to 76 singletons, 70 clusters involving 270 snoRNA genes were also found in rice. The large number of the novel snoRNA polycistrons found in the introns of rice protein-coding genes is in contrast to the one-snoRNA-per-intron organization of vertebrates and yeast, and of Arabidopsis in which only a few intronic snoRNA gene clusters were identified. Furthermore, due to a high degree of gene duplication, rice snoRNA genes are clearly redundant and exhibit great sequence variation among isoforms, allowing generation of new snoRNAs for selection. Thus, the large snoRNA gene family in plants can serve as an excellent model for a rapid and functional evolution.
12736436	For studying protein trafficking in Babesia-infected erythrocyte, we describe the cloning of a Rab5, one of molecular marker for vesicle trafficking in eukaryotic cells, gene homologue in Babesia gibsoni (BgRab5). The full-length cDNA of BgRab5 is 1,020 bp long with an open reading frame encoding a protein of 220 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of BgRab5 contained the highly conserved GTP-binding consensus sequence and shares about 40% homology with that of Rab5 from Plasmodium falciparum, Toxoplasma gondii, Dog, Lotus japonicusor, Oryza sativa. Northern blot analysis showed that the BgRab5 probe hybridized with a 1kb band in total RNA from parasitized erythrocytes, that was consistent with the size of the BgRab5 full-length cDNA.
12736788	We have cloned two genes for gibberellin (GA) 2-oxidase from rice (Oryza sativa L.). Expression of OsGA2ox2 was not observed. The other gene, OsGA2ox3, was expressed in every tissue examined and was enhanced by the application of biologically active GA. Recombinant OsGA2ox3 protein catalyzed the metabolism of GA(1) to GA(8) and GA(20) to GA(29)-catabolite. These results indicate that OsGA2ox3 is involved in the homeostatic regulation of the endogenous level of biologically active GA in rice.
12737007	Consumption figures for 15 major commodities (cereals, wheat, rice, maize, potato, pulses, olive oil, other vegetable oils, vegetables, fruits, wine, meats, animal fats, milk + products, and fish + seafood) were collected from FAO Food Balance Sheets during the 1960s (1961-1969) and late 1990s (1995-1999). For some nutritionists the "model Mediterranean diet" is the Italian or Greek diet of the 1960s, for others the concept of Mediterranean countries is more general. Analysis shows: (1) In the 1960s, Australia consumed more meat, milk, animal fat than Italy or Greece and less cereals, wheat, pulses, olive oil, vegetables, fruits and wine. (2) In the 1960s, Australia's olive oil, vegetables, fruits and wine consumption were within the range for all 18 Mediterranean countries (i.e. Spain, France, Italy, Malta, Croatia, Bosnia, Albania, Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco). (3) In the 1990s, food consumptions have evolved; Australia's wine and milk consumption is now similar to Italy and Greece; consumption of wheat, olive oil, vegetables, fruits and fish are lower; consumption of potato, pulses, other vegetable oils and meat are higher than Italy or Greece. (4) Australia's consumption of the 15 commodities is within the range of all Mediterranean countries in the late 1990s, except wheat consumption was lower.
12737232	1. Growth, antibody response to sheep red blood cells (SRBC) and resistance to Escherichia coli were measured in broiler female chicks received from 4 (n = 100 in each) commercial genotypes (A, B, C and D) and fed with maize-soybean-deoiled rice bran based diets containing 4 concentrations of methionine (3.91, 4.46, 5.00 and 5.54 g/kg). The diets were fed ad libitum from 1 to 49 d of age. 2. Body weight gain and weight gain/food intake at 2 week intervals, response of broilers to inoculation of 0.5 ml of SRBC (0.5 or 2.5%), 0.1 ml of E. coli (10(-4) dilutions) culture, and 100 microg phytohaemogglutinin-P (PHA-P) at 43 d of age were measured. The responses to SRBC and E. coli inoculation were recorded at 5 d post inoculation (PI), while the responses to PHA-P were recorded at 12 and 24 h PI. 3. Genotype by methionine interaction was not significant for body weight gain, but significant differences in weight gain were observed among different genotypes. Variation in methionine concentration did not influence body weight gain or weight gain/food intake at 1 to 14, or 42 d of age. At 28 d of age, chicks fed on the 3.91 g methionine/kg diet weighted significantly less than those on the other methionine concentrations. Genotype by methionine interaction was observed for food efficiency at 0 to 28 d of age but not at other ages. 4. Antibody titres against SRBC and heart and air sac lesion score to E. coli challenge were not influenced by genotype-methionine interaction. Chicks given higher concentrations of methionine had higher antibody titres and greater cutaneous basophilic hypersensitivity (CBH) response than those given low levels of methionine. Also, variation was observed in expression of CBH response to PHA-P among different genotypes. 5. It may be concluded that, although the commercial broiler chicks do not require more than 3.91 g methionine/kg for optimum growth and food efficiency, the immunity in terms of CBH response and antibody production to SRBC increased with the concentration of methionine in the diet in the majority of genotypes, indicating a higher methionine requirement for immunity than for weight gain.
12737521	A partial rice (Oryza sativa L.) cDNA clone, OsPI4K1c, was isolated through screening of a cDNA library constructed from tillering materials. OsPI4K1c encoded a peptide of 608 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 68.4 kDa. The OsPI4K1c peptide shared high homology and possessed the highly conserved domains present in most isolated cloned PI4-kinases, i.e. a lipid kinase unique (LKU) domain and a catalytic (CAT) domain. A region with similarity to pleckstrin homology (PH) domain was present in OsPI4K1c as well. Further comparison with genomic sequences in databases revealed that OsPI4K1c is located at the 3'-end of a putative rice PI 4-kinase coding gene OsPI4K1, and its coding region corresponded to the C-terminal half of OsPI4K1 protein. Twelve exons (49-562 bp in size) and 11 introns (77-974 bp in size) were identified in OsPI4K1c. The recombinant protein expressed in Escherichia coli phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol at the D4 position of the inositol ring. OsPI4K1 transcript levels were detected in a low but constitutive manner in shoot, stem, leaf, spike and root tissues and did not change upon treatment with different hormones, calcium and jasmonic acid (JA). However, treatment with salicylic acid (SA) elevated the mRNA level of the OsPI4K1 gene, which suggested the involvement of OsPI4K1 in wounding responses.
12738060	Neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) has been extensively studied in a rat model characterized by unilateral brain damage (Rice-Vannucci Model). However, as well as in humans, each rat brain hemisphere is distinctly involved in cognitive functions, as for example retrieval of emotionally based memory, and neurochemical asymmetries have been described. In this paper we investigated whether hypoxia-ischemia could cause distinct cognitive deficits depending on which hemisphere is damaged. Seven-day-old male Wistar rats were submitted to permanent occlusion of left or right common carotid artery and were exposed to a mixture of 8% oxygen-92% nitrogen for 2.5 h. On adulthood, these rats were trained in step-down inhibitory avoidance and in two tasks in the Morris water maze. Both experimental groups (right and left lesioned) showed a deficit of retrieval in the inhibitory avoidance task compared to controls, although rats with right hemisphere lesion showed a significantly greater deficit than the left damaged group (P<0.05). In the Morris maze, both damaged groups presented cognitive deficits in the reference memory task (P<0.05), however only the right damaged group had an impairment in the working memory task. Brain coronal areas, at levels +1.20 and -3.30 mm from bregma of both HI groups were smaller than those of control, with no differences between the right and left damaged groups (P<0.05). These results show that cerebral hypoxia-ischemia in neonatal rats causes asymmetric behavioral outcomes depending on which of the hemispheres is lesioned and support the hypothesis of lateralization of cognitive functions in the rodent brain.
12738200	We conducted an epidemiological study to investigate the effects of low-dose cadmium (Cd) exposure on human health in a specific area of a town in Japan where low Cd concentration was detected in rice. We compared clinical findings, urinary and whole blood Cd concentrations, and indicators of renal dysfunction between the polluted area and the control area. The study employed 44 men and 54 women from the polluted area and 21 men and 29 women from the control area. In urine analysis, as indicators of Cd exposure and possible related renal dysfunction, Cd, beta(2)-microglobulin (beta(2)-MG), alpha(1)-microglobulin (alpha(1)-MG), N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), total protein, inorganic phosphorus, lysozyme and creatinine were quantitatively measured. In blood analysis, serum IP and creatinine and whole blood Cd were measured. No case of renal dysfunction due to Cd exposure was confirmed. However, both the urinary and whole blood Cd of the polluted area were significantly higher than those of the control area for both sexes. Urinary beta(2)-MG did not differ between the two areas. For women, urinary alpha(1)-MG was significantly higher in the polluted area than in the control area. In correlation analysis, beta(2)-MG, alpha(1)-MG and NAG, were positively correlated with both of urinary and whole blood Cd for men and women in the polluted area except for between urinary beta(2)-MG and urinary Cd for men. In the control area, the sole positive correlation observed was between urinary beta(2)-MG and whole blood Cd for men. We then examined the determinants of variations of parameters in urinary and blood tests. Potential determinants were age, sex, body mass index, an indicator of smoking habits (cigarette index) and the index of estimated Cd intake from rice (Cd-rice-index). Cd-rice-index was expressed as the product of Cd concentrations in homegrown rice multiplied by daily frequency multiplied by duration (years) of residence in the polluted area. In multiple regression analysis, whole blood Cd was independently associated with Cd-rice-index, age and gender. Variations in whole blood Cd accounted for a substantial portion of the variations in urinary Cd, although they were less influential in older individuals. Whole blood Cd was the sole independent variable related to variations in urinary beta(2)-MG. Cd-rice-index accounted for a portion of the variance in urinary NAG, while age was a more powerful determinant. It was thus revealed that the consumption of homegrown rice polluted with Cd in low concentration resulted in an elevation of whole blood Cd level and consequent increase in urinary Cd level. However, it was not clearly elucidated that the excretion of urinary low-molecular microglobulins could increase significantly in response to slight elevation of Cd body load.
12739818	Culicinomyces clavosporus was isolated from diseased larvae of Culex pipiens collected from brackish water habitat. Pure cultures of the fungus were grown on nutrient agar media. In the laboratory, the Egyptian isolate of the fungus was bioassayed against first instar larvae of Aedes caspius, Cx. antennatus and Cx. pipiens. The estimated LC50's for Ae. caspius, Cx. antennatus and Cx. pipiens were 4.4 x 10(2), 7.6 x 10(2) and 11.8 x 10(2) conidia/ml, respectively. Field studies were undertaken in a variety of habitats supporting populations of mosquitoes in Mahalet Marhoom, El-Gharbia Governorate, in the summer of 1999. Evaluations included artificial pool studies and field trials. The fungus was applied once to 3 different natural breeding habitats of mosquitoes at a dose rate of 10(10) conidia/m2. Cx. clavosporus introduction into unpolluted rice field that had high densities of Cx. antennatus and low densities of Anopheles tenebrosus Doenitz and Cx. perexiguus resulted in 100% control of the larvae 5 days post treatment. Introduction of the fungus into brackish water habitat supporting large brood of Ae. caspius, and few numbers of Culiseta longiareolata (Macquart), Cx. Pusillus, Cx. perexiguus and Cx. pipiens was equally effective. Dissection and examinations of larvae from both sites confirmed infection by the fungus. However, introduction of the fungus into a drain supporting high population density of Cx. pipiens was not effective. Microscopic examination of larvae removed from this site revealed that the conidia failed to germinate and penetrate the host cuticle. The presence of organic pollution in the breeding site drastically reduced the infectivity of the fungus. Thus, the fungus appears promising as a possible limiting factor for mosquito populations, and eventually its use in control of mosquitoes merits further investigations.
12742397	The development of methods and strategies to reduce the emission of methane from paddy fields is a central component of ongoing efforts to protect the Earth's atmosphere and to avert a possible climate change. It appears from this investigation that there can be more than one strategy to contain methane emission from paddy fields, which are thought to be a major source of methane emission in tropical Asia. Promising among the mitigating options may be water management, organic amendments, fertilizer application and selection of rice cultivars. It is always better to adopt multi-pronged strategies to contain CH4 efflux from rice wetlands. Use of fermented manures with low C/N ratio, application of sulfate-containing chemical fertilizers, selection of low CH4 emitting rice cultivars, and implementation of one or two short aeration periods before the heading stage can be effective options to minimize CH4 emission from paddy fields. Among these strategies, water management, which appears to be the best cost-effective and eco-friendly way for methane mitigation, is only possible when excess water is available for reflooding after short soil drying at the right timing and stage. However, in tropical Asia, rice fields are naturally flooded during the monsoonal rainy season and fully controlled drainage is often impossible. In such situation, water deficits during the vegetative and reproductive stage may drastically affect the rice yields. Thus, care must be taken to mitigate methane emission without affecting rice yields.
12742545	To examine the effect of two types of resistant starch on blood glucose and insulin levels, colonic events, hypolipidemic actions and humoral immune responses, Sprague-Dawley streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were fed diet containing resistant starch from corn or rice. The marked body weight loss by inducing diabetes was not recovered by feeding resistant starch, even though there are no differences in food intakes compared to the non-diabetic control rats. No significant effect of resistant starch feeding on blood glucose and insulin was found. Even though the length of small intestines, and cecum, colon and rectum together with the tissue weight of cecum were not affected by feeding resistant starch, the intestinal transit time was markedly shortened by both types of resistant starch and resistant starch from corn had a more pronounced effect. The short chain fatty acids in the intestinal contents did not appear to be different among the groups. Nonetheless, both of resistant starch from corn and rice significantly lowered plasma total lipid and cholesterol concentrations compared to the diabetic control. The total liver cholesterol lowering effect was observed with resistant starch from rice. Neither immunoglobulin G nor C(3) were influenced by resistant starch.
12743341
12744435	We investigated heavy metal contamination in soils and plants at polluted sites in China including some with heavy industries, metal mining, smelting and untreated wastewater irrigation areas. We report our main findings in this paper. The concentrations of heavy metals, including Cd and Zn, in the soils at the investigated sites were above the background levels, and generally exceeded the Government guidelines for metals in soil. The concentrations of metals in plants served to indicate the metal contamination status of the site, and also revealed the abilities of various plant species to take up and accumulate the metals from the soil. Substantial differences in the accumulation of heavy metals were observed among the plant species investigated. Polygonum hydropiper growing on contaminated soils in a sewage pond had accumulated 1061 mg kg(-1) of Zn in its shoots. Rumex acetosa L. growing near a smelter had accumulated more than 900 mg kg(-1) of Zn both in its shoots and roots. Therefore these species have potential for phytoremediation of metal-contaminated sites. Our results indicate the need to elucidate the dynamics of soil metal contamination of plants and the onward movement of metal contaminants into the food chain. Also our results indicate that the consumption of rice grown in paddy soils contaminated with Cd, Cr or Zn may pose a serious risk to human health, because from 24 to 22% of the total metal content in the rice biomass was concentrated in the rice grain. Platanus acerifolia growing on heavily contaminated soil accumulated only very low levels of heavy metals, and this mechanism for excluding metal uptake may have value in crop improvement. Sources of metal entering the environmental matrices studied included untreated wastewater, tailings or slurries and dust depositions from metal ore mining, and sewage sludge. Pb, Zn or Cd concentrations declined with the distance from metal smelter in accordance with a good exponential correlation (R2>0.9), and this shows that metal dust deposition is an important contributor to metal contamination of soils.
12744652	Ferulic acid esters of triterpene alcohols and sterols in rice bran oil have been extensively studied and reported to possess important pharmacological actions. Inconsistent results on the numbers and structures of ferulates have been reported, primarily because of the analytical procedures employed. Conventional methods for analysis of phytosterol content in oil are carried out by characterization of trimethylsilylated derivatives (TMS) using GC-EI-MS after saponification of oils or individual compound isolated from oils. This study developed an LC-MS/MS method for the direct analysis of triterpene alcohol and sterol esters in rice bran oil. In addition to verifying the results of previous research, nine new relatively polar triterpene alcohol and sterol esters were characterized by their retention behaviors in LC and ESI-MS data from both negative- and positive-ion mode. This is the first evidence for the presence of hydroxylated ferulate esters and caffeate esters as part of gamma-oryzanol in rice bran. The method enables rapid and direct on-line characterization of triterpene alcohol and sterol esters in oils. LC-MS/MS equipped with reverse-phase LC and ESI-MS should be well-suited for identification and quantification of the polar metabolites of phytosterols in biological fluids after consumption of rice bran oil or other oils.
12746511	In comparison with retrotransposons, which comprise the majority of the Triticeae genomes, very few class 2 transposons have been described in these genomes. Based on the recent discovery of a local accumulation of CACTA elements at the Glu-A3 loci in the two wheat species Triticum monococcum and Triticum durum, we performed a database search for additional such elements in Triticeae spp. A combination of BLAST search and dot-plot analysis of publicly available Triticeae sequences led to the identification of 41 CACTA elements. Only seven of them encode a protein similar to known transposases, whereas the other 34 are considered to be deletion derivatives. A detailed characterization of the identified elements allowed a further classification into seven subgroups. The major subgroup, designated the "Caspar " family, was shown by hybridization to be present in at least 3,000 copies in the T. monococcum genome. The close association of numerous CACTA elements with genes and the identification of several similar elements in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and rice (Oryza sativa) led to the conclusion that CACTA elements contribute significantly to genome size and to organization and evolution of grass genomes.
12746528	Purified rice (Oryza sativa) mitochondrial proteins have been arrayed by isoelectric focusing/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), by blue-native (BN) PAGE, and by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (LC) separation (LC-mass spectrometry [MS]). From these protein arrays, we have identified a range of rice mitochondrial proteins, including hydrophilic/hydrophobic proteins (grand average of hydropathicity = -1.27 to +0.84), highly basic and acid proteins (isoelectric point = 4.0-12.5), and proteins over a large molecular mass range (6.7-252 kD), using proteomic approaches. BN PAGE provided a detailed picture of electron transport chain protein complexes. A total of 232 protein spots from isoelectric focusing/PAGE and BN PAGE separations were excised, trypsin digested, and analyzed by tandem MS (MS/MS). Using this dataset, 149 of the protein spots (the products of 91 nonredundant genes) were identified by searching translated rice open reading frames from genomic sequence and six-frame translated rice expressed sequence tags. Sequence comparison allowed us to assign functions to a subset of 85 proteins, including many of the major function categories expected for this organelle. A further six spots were matched to rice sequences for which no specific function has yet been determined. Complete digestion of mitochondrial proteins with trypsin yielded a peptide mixture that was analyzed directly by reverse-phase LC via organic solvent elution from a C-18 column (LC-MS). These data yielded 170 MS/MS spectra that matched 72 sequence entries from open reading frame and expressed sequence tag databases. Forty-five of these were obtained using LC-MS alone, whereas 28 proteins were identified by both LC-MS and gel-based separations. In total, 136 nonredundant rice proteins were identified, including a new set of 23 proteins of unknown function located in plant mitochondria. We also report the first direct identification, to our knowledge, of PPR (pentatricopeptide repeat) proteins in the plant mitochondrial proteome. This dataset provides the first extensive picture, to our knowledge, of mitochondrial functions in a model monocot plant.
12746531	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting sugar composition of the cell walls of maize (Zea mays) pericarp were mapped as an approach to the identification of genes involved in cereal wall biosynthesis. Mapping was performed using the IBM (B73 x Mo17) recombinant inbred line population. There were statistically significant differences between B73 and Mo17 in content of xylose (Xyl), arabinose (Ara), galactose (Gal), and glucose. Thirteen QTLs were found, affecting the content of Xyl (two QTLs), Ara (two QTLs), Gal (five QTLs), Glc (two QTLs), Ara + Gal (one QTL), and Xyl + Glc (one QTL). The chromosomal regions corresponding to two of these, affecting Ara + Gal and Ara on maize chromosome 3, could be aligned with a syntenic region on rice (Oryza sativa) chromosome 1, which has been completely sequenced and annotated. The contiguous P1-derived artificial chromosome rice clones covering the QTLs were predicted to encode 117 and 125 proteins, respectively. Two of these genes encode putative glycosyltransferases, displaying similarity to carbohydrate-active enzyme database family GT4 (galactosyltransferases) or to family GT64 (C-terminal domain of animal heparan synthases). The results illustrate the potential of using natural variation, emerging genomic resources, and homeology within the Poaceae to identify candidate genes involved in the essential process of cell wall biosynthesis.
1274681	The pattern of skull growth of the rice rat (Oryzomys palustris natator) over the pre-weaning period of development reveals a characteristic triphasic outline which stems, in part, from the interplay of the external environment and the genetic endowment. Within the triphasic spectrum the neural skull growth exhibits an accelerated rate of growth during the early phases which eventually reverses to a rapid deceleration in the final phase. In contrast, the facial skull growth shows increased growth rate following the decline of the neural group, eventually reaching a slow linear deceleration. Thus the neural components appear to be synchronised to the brain growth while the facial elements gain a new and greater impetus following the neural decline. The general growth of the skull throughout these changes, i.e. triphasic and neural/facial, continues to show a basic slow linear increase.
12746857	Fusarium graminearum strains are well known for their role as plant pathogens and for their production of mycotoxins, and less known for their secretion of galactose oxidase, a well-studied and useful enzyme. Three galactose oxidase-producing isolates of F. graminearum were grown on rice to identify the production of zearalenone and trichothecenes through the use of thin layer chromatography and gas chromatography coupled to mass fragmentation. Detection and identification of deoxynivalenol, 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol, and zearalenone were accomplished.
12748952	We used proteomic analysis to investigate the changing patterns of protein synthesis during pollen development in anthers from rice plants grown under strictly controlled growth conditions. Cytological analysis and external growth measurements such as anther length, auricle distances and days before flowering were used to determine pollen developmental stages. This allowed the collection of synchronous anther materials representing six discrete pollen developmental stages. Proteins were extracted from the anther samples and separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis to produce proteome maps. The anther proteome maps of different developmental stages were compared and 150 protein spots, which were changed consistently during development, were analysed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry to produce peptide mass fingerprint (PMF) data. Database searches using these PMF data revealed the identities of 40 of the protein spots analyzed. These 40 proteins represent 33 unique gene products. Four protein spots that could not be identified by PMF analysis were analysed by N-terminal microsequencing. Multiple charge-isoforms of vacuolar acid invertase, fructokinase, beta-expansin and profilin were identified. These proteins are closely associated with sugar metabolism, cell elongation and cell expansion, all of which are cell activities that are essential to pollen germination. The existence of multiple isoforms of the same proteins suggests that during the process of pollen development some kind of post-translational modification of these proteins occurs.
12749190	We studied the effect of cleaning and cooking on the residues of flutolanil, fenobucarb, silafluofen and buprofezin in rice. The rice had been sprayed in a paddy field in Wakayama city, with 3 kinds of pesticide application protocols: spraying once at the usual concentration of pesticides, repeated spraying (3 times) with the usual concentration of pesticides and spraying once with 3 times the usual concentration of pesticides. The residue levels of pesticide decreased during the rice cleaning process. Silafluofen, which has a higher log Pow value, remained in the hull of the rice. Fenobucarb, which has a lower log Pow value, penetrated inside the rice. The residue concentration of pesticide in polished rice was higher than that in pre-washed rice processed ready for cooking. During the cooking procedure, the reduction of pesticides in polished rice was higher than that in brown rice.
12749342	Non-infectious diseases such as CHD and certain cancers have become major causes of death and disability in affluent countries. Probiotics (principally lactic acid bacteria; LAB) may assist in lowering the risk of these diseases. Experimental studies with probiotics have given generally inconclusive outcomes for infectious disease and for biomarkers for non-infectious disease. In part this situation may reflect their inability to colonise the adult human gut effectively. Prebiotics can assist in promoting colonisation, and resistant starch (RS), as a high-amylose starch, is a prebiotic and synbiotic. This starch exerts its synbiotic action through adhesion of the bacteria to the granule surface. Consumption of RS assists in recovery from infectious diarrhoea in man and animals. A rice porridge, high in RS, appears to modify the autochthonous porcine large-bowel microflora favourably through lowering Escherichia coli and coliform numbers. Many of the beneficial effects of RS on large-bowel function appear to be exerted through short-chain fatty acids (SCFA)formed by bacterial fermentation. In man LAB are found in relatively highest numbers in milk-fed infants where the profile of fermentation products differs quite markedly from that in adults. It appears unlikely that ingestion of current probiotics will alter either total SCFA or the proportions of the major acids. More emphasis needs to be given to the investigation of the effects of complex carbohydrates, including RS, on the autochthonous microflora of the human large bowel.
12750789	An advanced backcross QTL study was performed in pepper using a cross between the cultivated species Capsicum annuum cv. Maor and the wild C. frutescens BG 2816 accession. A genetic map from this cross was constructed, based on 248 BC(2) plants and 92 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers distributed throughout the genome. Ten yield-related traits were analyzed in the BC(2) and BC(2)S(1) generations, and a total of 58 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected; the number of QTLs per trait ranged from two to ten. Most of the QTLs were found in 11 clusters, in which similar QTL positions were identified for multiple traits. Unlike the high percentage of favorable QTL alleles discovered in wild species of tomato and rice, only a few such QTL alleles were detected in BG 2816. For six QTLs (10%), alleles with effects opposite to those expected from the phenotype were detected in the wild species. The use of common RFLP markers in the pepper and tomato maps enabled possible orthologous QTLs in the two species to be determined. The degree of putative QTL orthology for the two main fruit morphology traits-weight and shape-varied considerably. While all eight QTLs identified for fruit weight in this study could be orthologous to tomato fruit weight QTLs, only one out of six fruit shape QTLs found in this study could be orthologous to tomato fruit shape QTLs.
12751211	Eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs) are key elements in protein synthesis. Among identified 13 initiation factors, eIF3, composed of 8 or more subunits, is the largest one and plays a central role in the initiation of translation. As the largest subunit, eIF3a mediates most functions of eIF3. Based on the experiments that rice eIF3a gene could be induced by auxin (through fluorescent differential display PCR), a cDNA coding for rice eIF3a, named OseIF3a1, was isolated. OseIF3a1 cDNA, with a length of 3459 bp (including 5' and 3'-UTR) and encoding a 986-aa polypeptide, shared sequence identity of 82.4% and 70.1% with that in maize and tobacco. Comparison of cDNA and genomic sequence revealed the presence of 13 exons and 12 introns in OseIF3a1 gene. Reverse transcript PCR (RT-PCR) analysis indicated the expression of OseIF3a1 in root, shoots, young spike, stem and leaf tissues, promoter-GUS fusion studies further confirmed its expression in root tip, leaf, glume and stigma. The induction of OseIF3a1 by auxin suggested that function of auxin on growth may involve the regulation on translation level.
12751334	Malate dehydrogenase (MDH) has been characterized as a key player in oxaloacetate (OAA) biosynthesis mechanism in citrate acid cycle that generates reducing powers for further assimilation in the whole cell. Here we present the cloning, characterization and prokaryotic expression of a putative Mdh (OsmMDH) in Oryza sativa. Sequence alignment shows that there is a high homology between the deduced amino acid sequence of OsmMDH and MDH portein in Eucalyptus gunnii (80%), as well as between the deduced amino acid sequence of OsmMDH and other MDHs. Moreover, pI and the mitochondrial location of OsmMDH are predicted. The tissue-specific expression pattern of OsmMDH reveals that it is abundant in young panicle and immature seed, while its expression level is mush lower in leaf and root. Its expression in E. coli BL21 as a fusion gene is studied further.
12752341
12752830	The objective of the present study was to examine the effect of signalment, body size and diet on plasma taurine and whole blood taurine concentrations. A total of 131 normal dogs consuming commercially prepared dog food had blood drawn 3-5 h post-prandially to be analysed for plasma amino acids and whole blood taurine. Body weight and morphometric measurements of each dog were taken. Plasma and whole blood taurine concentrations were 77 +/- 2.1 nmol/ml (mean +/- SEM) and 266 +/- 5.1 nmol/ml (mean +/- SEM), respectively. No effect of age, sex, body weight, body size, or diet was seen on plasma and whole blood taurine concentrations. Mean whole blood taurine concentrations were lower in dogs fed diets containing whole grain rice, rice bran or barley. The lowest whole blood concentrations were seen in dogs fed lamb or lamb meal and rice diets. Plasma methionine and cysteine concentrations were lower in dogs fed diets with animal meals or turkey, and whole grain rice, rice bran or barley. Fifteen of 131 dogs had plasma taurine concentrations lower than, or equal, to the previously reported lowest mean food-deprived plasma taurine concentration in normal dogs of 49 +/- 5 nmol/ml (mean +/- SEM) (Elliott et al., 2000). These findings support the theory that taurine deficiency in dogs may be related to the consumption of certain dietary ingredients. Scientific and clinical evidence supports the hypothesis that dilated cardiomyopathy is associated with low blood taurine concentration in dogs; therefore, further work is indicated to determine the mechanism by which diet can affect taurine status in dogs.
12753207	Genomic DNA was extracted from heartwood blocks of six Cryptomeria japonica individuals that had been buried (in an area now covered by rice fields) for about 3600 years. Attempts were made to determine the sequences of five nuclear genes following polymerase chain reaction amplification, using previously obtained C. japonica expressed sequence tag (EST) information. We detected 15 nucleotide substitutions and four insertion/deletions (indels) in a partial GapC gene sequence among 13 individuals of the buried and an extant population, which allowed us to estimate the extent of DNA variation within the buried populations, and the level of genetic differentiation between the buried population and the extant population growing in a neighbouring area. For the entire haplotypes of the GapC region, pi and theta nucleotide diversity estimates were 0.0063 and 0.0010, respectively, when both populations were included, while corresponding figures for the buried population alone were 0.0009 and 0.0017. Estimates of DNA divergence statistics (dXY = 0.0062, dA = 0.0005, FST = 0.0832 and KST = 0.0935) suggest that differentiation between the two populations was not great. However, permutation tests gave FST and KST values rejecting the null hypothesis (that populations were not differentiated) at the 5% and 1% probability levels, respectively. The significant genetic differentiation between the two populations was mainly caused by differences in haplotype diversity. The significant level of haplotype diversity in the extant population compared to the buried population might be the result of gene flow from neighbouring artificial forests. Alternatively, it is possible that we failed to detect all the DNA variation in the buried population because of clonal growth in the buried population.
12753223	Wolbachia are a group of intracellular bacteria that cause reproductive alterations in their arthropod hosts. Widely discordant host and Wolbachia phylogenies indicate that horizontal transmission of these bacteria among species sometimes occurs. A likely means of horizontal transfer is through the feeding relations of organisms within communities. Feeding interactions among insects within the rice-field insect community have been well documented in the past. Here, we present the results of a polymerase chain reaction-based survey and phylogenetic analysis of Wolbachia strains in the rice-field insect community of Thailand. Our field survey indicated that 49 of 209 (23.4%) rice-field insect species were infected with Wolbachia. Of the 49 infected species, 27 were members of two feeding complexes: (i) a group of 13 hoppers preyed on by 2 mirid species and parasitized by a fly species, and (ii) 2 lepidopteran pests parasitized by 9 wasp species. Wolbachia strains found in three hoppers, Recilia dorsalis, Nephotettix malayanus and Nisia nervosa, the two mirid predators, Cyrtorhinus lividipennis and Tytthus chinensis, and the fly parasitoid, Tomosvaryella subvirescens, were all in the same Wolbachia clade. In the second complex, the two lepidopteran pests, Cnaphalocrocis medinalis and Scirpophaga incertulas, were both infected with Wolbachia from the same clade, as was the parasitoid Tropobracon schoenobii. However, none of the other infected parasitoid species in this feeding complex was infected by Wolbachia from this clade. Mean (+/- SD) genetic distance of Wolbachia wsp sequences among interacting species pairs of the hopper feeding complex (0.118 +/- 0.091 nucleotide sequence differences), but not for the other two complexes, was significantly smaller than that between noninteracting species pairs (0.162 +/- 0.079 nucleotide sequence differences). Our results suggest that some feeding complexes, such as the hopper complex described here, could be an important means by which Wolbachia spreads among species within arthropod communities.
12753582	Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are involved in the control of cell cycle progression. Plant A-type CDKs are functional homologs of yeast Cdc2/Cdc28 and are expressed throughout the cell cycle. In contrast, B-type CDK (CDKB) is a family of mitotic CDKs expressed during the S/M phase, and its precise function remains unknown. Here, we identified two B2-type cyclins, CycB2;1 and CycB2;2, as a specific partner of rice CDKB2;1. The CDKB2;1-CycB2 complexes produced in insect cells showed a significant level of kinase activity in vitro, suggesting that CycB2 binds to and activates CDKB2. We then expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused CDKB2;1 and CycB2;2 in tobacco BY2 cells to investigate their subcellular localization during mitosis. Surprisingly, the fluorescence signal of CDKB2;1-GFP was tightly associated with chromosome alignment as well as with spindle structure during the metaphase. During the telophase, the signal was localized to the spindle midzone and the separating sister chromosomes, and then to the phragmoplast. On the other hand, the CycB2;2-GFP fluorescence signal was detected in nuclei during the interphase and prophase, moved to the metaphase chromosomes, and then disappeared completely after the cells passed through the metaphase. Co-localization of CDKB2;1-GFP and CycB2;2-GFP on chromosomes aligned at the center of the metaphase cells suggests that the CDKB2-CycB2 complex may function in retaining chromosomes at the metaphase plate. Overexpression of CycB2;2 in rice plants resulted in acceleration of root growth without any increase in cell size, indicating that CycB2;2 promoted cell division probably through association with CDKB2 in the root meristem.
12753640	In 13 villages in the savannah zone and 21 villages in the forest zone of Côte d'Ivoire, the biting density of the principal malaria vector, Anopheles gambiae, was studied as a function of rice cultivation in the inland valleys in a 2-km radius around each village. In the savannah villages, during the main season cropping period, surface water on rice-cultivated and to a lesser extent on uncultivated inland valleys seems to contribute strongly to the A. gambiae population density. For the off-season cropping period (which starts after the first light rains in the savannah zone), correlations were weaker. Breeding sites other than in inland valleys may play an important role in the savannah zone. In the forest zone, however, the A. gambiae population density was strongly correlated with the surface water availability (SWA) in the rice-cultivated inland valleys, whereas the correlation with the SWA in other (uncultivated) inland valleys was weak. The requirement of sunlit breeding sites for A. gambiae might explain this difference between zones. In the forest zone, only inland valleys cleared for rice cultivation meet this requirement, whereas all other inland valleys are covered with dense vegetation. In the savannah zone, however, most undergrowth is burnt during the dry season, which permits sunlight to reach puddles resulting from the first rains.
12753641	In sub-Saharan Africa, lowlands developed for rice cultivation favour the development of Anopheles gambiae s. l. populations. However, the epidemiological impact is not clearly determined. The importance of malaria was compared in terms of prevalence and parasite density of infections as well as in terms of disease incidence between three agroecosystems: (i) uncultivated lowlands, 'R0', (ii) lowlands with one annual rice cultivation in the rainy season, 'R1' and (iii) developed lowlands with two annual rice cultivation cycles, 'R2'. We clinically monitored 2000 people of all age groups, selected randomly in each agroecosystem, for 40 days (in eight periods of five consecutive days scheduled every 6 weeks for 1 year). During each survey, a systematic blood sample was taken from every sick and asymptomatic person. The three agroecosystems presented a high endemic situation with a malaria transmission rate of 139-158 infective bites per person per year. The age-standardized annual malaria incidence reached 0.9 malaria episodes per person in R0, 0.6 in R1 and 0.8 in R2. Children from 0 to 9-year-old in R0 and R2 had two malarial attacks annually, but this was less in R1 (1.4 malaria episodes per child per year). Malaria incidence varied with season and agroecosystem. In parallel with transmission, a high malaria risk occurs temporarily at the beginning of the dry season in R2, but not in R0 and R1. Development of areas for rice cultivation does not modify the annual incidence of malarial attacks despite their seasonal influence on malaria risk. However, the lower malaria morbidity rate in R1 could be explained by socio-economic and cultural factors.
12753642	The potential impact of irrigated agriculture on water-related vector-borne diseases has been an increasing source of concern for researchers from the bio-medical sector. While most research on the potential impacts of irrigation on the health of local populations focuses on vector densities, levels of exposures, health services and technologies (prophylaxis, mosquito nets), we argue that it is essential to enlarge the scope of investigation and consider the complex mechanisms by which factors such as agriculture-generated changes in ecosystems, gender repositioning in the family organization as a result of access to new crops, and production activities combine together in increasing disease risks and producing new scenarios in the management of disease. This paper presents the results of an investigation of how transformations induced on the local society by the intensification of inland valley irrigated rice cultivation influence malaria health care systems and modulate risks to the health of local populations, within well-defined geographical boundaries in northern Côte d'Ivoire. Our results indicate that socio-economic transformations and gender repositioning induced, or facilitated, by the intensification of inland valley irrigated rice cultivation lead to a reduction of the capacity of women to manage disease episodes, contributing therefore to increase malaria incidence among farming populations.
12753643	Irrigation stabilizes agricultural production and hence improves farmers' living standards and conditions. The permanent presence of water may, however, increase the burden of water-related parasitic diseases and counter the economic benefits of irrigation by reducing farmers' health. The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of malaria on farm household property, beyond the health risk (studied elsewhere). The research question was: by weakening individuals, does malaria reduce productive capacities and income workers, and consequently limit their property accumulation? To test this hypothesis, we use data on property (farming equipment, livestock and durable consumer goods) and Plasmodium falciparum indicators generated by a study carried out in 1998 in the Ivorian savannah zone characterized by inland valley rice cultivation, with a sample of nearly 750 farming households. Property is influenced by many factors related to the size of the family, the area under cultivation and high parasite density infection rate of P. falciparum. A significant negative correlation between high-density infection rate and the property values confirms that by reducing the living standards of households, malaria is a limiting factor for property accumulation.
12753970	The pathway of starch synthesis in the cereal endosperm is unique, and requires enzyme isoforms that are not present in other cereal tissues or non-cereal plants. Recent information on the functions of individual enzyme isoforms has provided insight into how the linear chains and branch linkages in cereal starch are synthesized and distributed. Genetic analyses have led to the formulation of models for the roles of de-branching enzymes in cereal starch production, and reveal pleiotropic effects that suggest that certain enzymes may be physically associated. For the first time, tools for global analyses of starch biosynthesis are available for cereal crops, and are heralded by the draft sequence of the rice genome.
12753977	Research on a possible nutritional role for the element silicon has been hampered by the diverse beneficial effects that it has on monocots and dicots, and the subsequent difficulties in focusing studies on a single genetic model system. Although deemed a non-essential nutrient for the majority of plants, the benefits of silicon include increasing pest and pathogen resistance, drought and heavy metal tolerance, and the quality and yield of agricultural crops. Although the pathways and molecular mechanisms by which silicon is absorbed and deposited in plants are still unclear, recent progress has been achieved through the use of rice mutants that are deficient in silicon uptake. Additionally, the application of electron-energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) allows one to determine the composition of silica deposits conclusively. Thereby shedding light upon the role of silicon in heavy metal tolerance. With the complete sequence of the genomes for a dicot (Arabidopsis) and a monocot (rice) available for large-scale genetic analysis, the future bodes well for a more complete understanding of the biological role of silicon and its mode of transport into and through plants.
12764611	Ultraviolet radiation induces the formation of two classes of photoproducts in DNA-the cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) and the pyrimidine [6-4] pyrimidone photoproduct (6-4 product). Many organisms produce enzymes, termed photolyases, which specifically bind to these lesions and split them via a UV-A/blue light-dependent mechanism, thereby reversing the damage. These photolyases are specific for either CPDs or 6-4 products. Two classes of photolyases (class I and class II) repair CPDs. A gene that encodes a protein with class II CPD photolyase activity in vitro has been cloned from several plants including Arabidopsis thaliana, Cucumis sativus and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. We report here the isolation of a homolog of this gene from rice (Oryza sativa), which was cloned on the basis of sequence similarity and PCR-based dilution-amplification. The cDNA comprises a very GC-rich (75%) 5; region, while the 3; portion has a GC content of 50%. This gene encodes a protein with CPD photolyase activity when expressed in E. coli. The CPD photolyase gene encodes at least two types of mRNA, formed by alternative splicing of exon 5. One of the mRNAs encodes an ORF for 506 amino acid residues, while the other is predicted to code for 364 amino acid residues. The two RNAs occur in about equal amounts in O. sativa cells.
12769533	Rice straw has been successfully tested as an effective organic source and a carrier of selenate [Se(VI)]-reducing bacteria to remove Se(VI) from agricultural drainage water. In this study, an Se(VI)-reducing bacterium identified as Enterobacter taylorae was isolated from rice straw and used to remove Se(VI) from a 0.5% tryptic soy broth (TSB) and high-salt (15.5 dS m(-)(1)) synthetic agricultural drainage water containing Se(VI) in a range of 500-5000 microg/L. Results showed that E. taylorae reduced 81-94% of the added Se(VI) to elemental Se [Se(0)] in the 0.5% TSB solution during a 5-day experiment. In the high-salt drainage water, Se(VI) reduction was rapid during a 9-day experiment. On the final day of the experiment, Se(0) [75%] and Se(-II) [19%] were the major forms of Se in the drainage water with small amounts of Se(VI), Se(IV), and volatile Se released. The pathway of Se(VI) reduction in the drainage water followed the order Se(VI) --> selenite [Se(IV)] --> Se(0) --> selenide [Se(-II)]. This study suggests that E. taylorae may be used to remediate high-salt Se(VI)-contaminated agricultural drainage water.
12769739	There are many examples of biologically active food proteins, with physiological significance beyond the pure nutritional requirements that concern available nitrogen for normal growth and maintenance. Moreover, there are many physiologically active peptides, derived by protease activity from various food protein sources; however, relationships between structural properties and functional activities have not been completely elucidated. Many bioactive peptides have in common structural properties that include a relatively short peptide residue length (e.g. 2-9 amino acids), possessing hydrophobic amino acid residues in addition to proline, lysine or arginine groups. Bioactive peptides are also resistant to the action of digestion peptidases. Antihypertensive peptides, known as Angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been derived from milk, corn and fish protein sources. Peptides with opioid activities are derived from wheat gluten or casein, following digestion with pepsin. Exorphins, or opioid peptides derived from food proteins such as wheat and milk (e.g. exogenous sources) have similar structure to endogenous opioid peptides, with a tyrosine residue located at the amino terminal or bioactive site. Immunomodulatory peptides derived from tryptic hydrolysates of rice and soybean proteins act to stimulate superoxide anions (reactive oxygen species-ROS), which triggers non-specific immune defense systems. Antioxidant properties that prevent peroxidation of essential fatty acids have also been shown for peptides derived from milk proteins. The addition of a Leu or Pro residue to the N-terminus of a His-His, dipeptide will enhance antioxidant activity and facilitate further synergy with non-peptide antioxidants (e.g. BHT). We also show herein, that the tryptic digests of casein yielding caseinophosphopeptides exhibits both hydrophilic and lipophilic antioxidant activity due to both metal ion sequestering and quenching of ROS. The separation and purification of bioactive peptides which will involve development of automated and continuous systems is an important field for Food chemists. Much effort has been given to develop selective column chromatography methods that can replace batch methods of salting out, or using solvent extraction to isolate and purify bioactive peptides. Advances here will enable recovery of bioactive peptides with minimal destruction thus enabling utilization by returning these active peptides to functional food or specific nutraceutical applications.
12769741	During the last two decades a variety of food protein fragments has been demonstrated to elicit biological effects in various in vitro or in vivo test systems. A considerable part of these bioactive peptides are opioid receptor ligands, which may be regarded as exogenous supplements to the endogenous opioidergic systems of the human organism. Most of these food-derived opioid receptor ligands are fragments of the milk proteins alpha-, beta- or kappa-casein, alpha-lactalbumin, beta-lactoglobulin or lactotransferrin; however, also wheat gluten, rice albumin, bovine serum albumin or hemoglobin, i.e. possible constituents of meat, and even a protein from spinach could be demonstrated to contain fragments behaving like opioid receptor ligands. Practically all of these compounds display opioid agonist activity; only very few of them behave like opioid antagonists. Bioactive food protein derivatives have been termed " food hormones", which implies that these compounds display their bioactivities when released from food constituents, i.e. from their precursor molecules due to the action of gastrointestinal enzymes. The critical point in case of food protein-derived opioid receptor ligands is that only a minority of their bioactive effects demonstrated as yet has been observed upon oral or intragastric administration of these peptides or their precursor proteins and that most of these studies have been performed in animals. Thus, in terms of "evidence-based dietary supplementation" more studies are needed to prove effects of food protein-derived opioid receptor ligands or their precursors after oral administration in humans and, moreover, to prove a benefit for the consumer's organism.
12769935	Rice brown planthoppers (Nilaparvata lugens) were fed on artificial diet containing snowdrop lectin (Galanthus nivalis agglutinin; GNA), which has been shown to be toxic towards this insect pest. In addition to decreasing survival, the lectin affected development, reducing the growth rate of nymphs by approximately 50% when present at a concentration of 5.3&mgr;M. Immunolocalisation studies showed that lectin binding was concentrated on the luminal surface of the midgut epithelial cells within the planthopper, suggesting that GNA binds to cell surface carbohydrate moieties in the gut. Immunolabelling at a lower level was also observed in the fat bodies, the ovarioles, and throughout the haemolymph. These observations suggest that GNA is able to cross the midgut epithelial barrier, and pass into the insect's circulatory system, resulting in a systemic toxic effect. Electron microscope studies showed morphological changes in the midgut region of planthoppers fed on a toxic dose of GNA, with disruption of the microvilli brush border region. No significant proteolytic degradation of GNA was observed either in the gut or honeydew of planthoppers fed on lectin-containing diet. The presence of glycoproteins which bind GNA in the gut of the brown planthopper was confirmed using digoxigen-labeled lectins to probe blots of extracted gut polypeptides.
12770104	Overwintering larvae of the Shonai ecotype of the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis, enter diapause in early September and terminate diapause at the end of October. Cold acclimation at 0 degrees C did not influence glycerol, trehalose or glycogen content in larvae collected on 22 September. Acclimation at 0 degrees C increased the glycerol content and reduced the glycogen content significantly in larvae collected on 2 October and 22 November compared with acclimation at 15 degrees C. These results indicate that overwintering larvae at different phases of diapause development respond differently to the low temperature stimulus for glycerol synthesis. Thus, we evaluated the metabolic rearrangements associated with glycerol synthesis during diapause development and after temperature acclimation. Larvae collected on 2 October were acclimated at 15 degrees C for 15 and 60 days. Some of those acclimated at 15 degrees C were then moved to 0 degrees C for 15 days. The larvae acclimated at 15 degrees C for 15 days were in deep diapause and accumulated little glycerol, while larvae acclimated at 15 degrees C for 60 days were nearly ready to emerge from diapause and accumulated glycerol at 155.5 &mgr;mol/g. When larvae acclimated to 15 degrees C for 15 days were transferred to 0 degrees C, glycerol accumulation was stimulated to the same extent (ca 140 &mgr;mol/g) as it was in larvae that were acclimated to 15 degrees C for 60 days and then transferred to 0 degrees C. These results indicate that low temperature has a cumulative effect on glycerol production in larvae at different phases of diapause development. Glycerol accumulation was accomplished by activation of glycogen phosphorylase and inhibition of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, and activation of enzymes associated with glycerol synthesis, mainly glyceraldehyde-3-phosphatase and polyol dehydrogenase with glyceraldehyde activity.
12770221	Transgenic rice plants expressing snowdrop lectin (Galanthus nivalis agglutinin; GNA) were screened for resistance to green leafhopper (Nephotettix virescens; GLH), a major homopteran pest of rice. Survival was reduced by 29% and 53% (P<0.05) respectively, on plants where GNA expression was tissue-specific (phloem and epidermal layer) or constitutive. Similar levels of resistance in GNA-expressing transgenic rice were previously reported for rice brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens; BPH). GNA binding to glycoproteins in gut tissues showed that BPH contained more "receptors" than GLH, and that the binding affinity was stronger, particularly in the midgut. Subsequent toxicity of GNA is thus unlikely to be directly related to the amount of lectin bound. GNA was not detected in the honeydew of either insect species when they were fed on GNA-expressing plants, in contrast to results from artificial diet studies. This result suggests that GNA is not being delivered to the insect efficiently. When offered a free choice vs control plants, BPH nymphs tended to avoid plants expressing GNA; avoidance was less pronounced and took longer to develop on plants where GNA expression was tissue-specific, In contrast to BPH, GLH nymphs were attracted to plants expressing GNA, whether constitutively or in a tissue-specific manner.
12770582	Rice planthoppers and anobiid beetles harbor intracellular yeastlike symbiotes (YLS), whose sterols are nutritionally advantageous for the host insects that cannot synthesize sterols. YLS of anobiid beetles synthesize ergosterol, whereas YLS of planthoppers produce ergosta-5,7,24(28)-trienol, which is a metabolic intermediate in the ergosterol biosynthetic pathway in yeasts. Since sterol C-22 desaturase (ERG5p, CYP61) metabolizes ergosta-5,7,24(28)-trienol into ergosta-5,7,22,24(28)-tetraenol, which is the penultimate compound in the ergosterol biosynthesis, we examined the gene of this enzyme to determine whether this enzyme works in the planthopper YLS. C-22 desaturase genes (ERG5) of YLS of the planthoppers and beetles had four introns in identical positions; such introns are not found in the reported genes of yeasts. Cytochrome P450 cysteine heme-iron ligand signature motif was well conserved among the putative amino acid sequences. The gene expression of the planthopper YLS were strongly suppressed, and the genes possessed nonsense mutations. The accumulation of ergosta-5,7,24(28)-trienol in the planthopper YLS was attributed to the inability of the planthopper YLS to produce functional ERG5p.
12770899	The biological functions of heme proteins are linked to their rate and affinity constants for ligand binding. Kinetic experiments are commonly used to measure equilibrium constants for traditional hemoglobins comprised of pentacoordinate ligand binding sites and simple bimolecular reaction schemes. However, kinetic methods do not always yield reliable equilibrium constants with more complex hemoglobins for which reaction mechanisms are not clearly understood. Furthermore, even where reaction mechanisms are clearly understood, it is very difficult to directly measure equilibrium constants for oxygen and carbon monoxide binding to high-affinity (K(D) < 1 micro M) hemoglobins. This work presents a method for direct measurement of equilibrium constants for high-affinity hemoglobins that utilizes a competition for ligands between the "target" protein and an array of "scavenger" hemoglobins with known affinities. This method is described for oxygen and carbon monoxide binding to two hexacoordinate hemoglobins: rice nonsymbiotic hemoglobin and Synechocystis hemoglobin. Our results demonstrate that although these proteins have different mechanisms for ligand binding, their affinities for oxygen and carbon monoxide are similar. Their large affinity constants for oxygen, 285 and approximately 100 micro M(-1) respectively, indicate that they are not capable of facilitating oxygen transport.
12771966	We evaluated the adequacy of nutrient intake in comparison with the Indonesian Estimated Average Requirement (EARs) among pregnant Indonesian women and explain the short-term effect of economic crisis on nutrient intake and iron status. Cross-sectional study. Purworejo District, Central Java, located 60 km west of Yogyakarta Province, Indonesia. During the period from 1996 to 1998, up to six 24 h recalls were performed during the second trimester of pregnancy among 450 women. Nutrient intake and iron status was evaluated in relation to date of data collection relative to the economic crisis that emerged in August 1997. A computer program (Inafood) was developed to calculate nutrient intake. : Forty percent of the pregnant women were at risk of inadequate intake of energy and protein, and 70% were at risk of inadequate intake of vitamin A, calcium and iron even before the crisis. Our results also demonstrate an effect of short-term economic crisis on nutrient intake and iron status. When the crisis emerged, urban poor experienced a decrease in intake of most nutrients. During the crisis, rich women experienced a significant decrease in fat (P<0.05). Negative changes in fat density during crisis were experienced by the rich and the rural, poor, and access to rice field subgroups (P<0.01). A significant increase in carbohydrate densities was seen for the rich and rural, poor, and access to rice fields groups (P<0.05). Urban poor experienced decreased serum ferritin concentration (P<0.05), whereas rich women experienced a significant increase (P<0.05). Urban poor and rural poor landless women were most directly affected by the emerging economic crisis.
12773341
12773632	We have previously generated a large pool of T-DNA insertional lines in rice. In this study, we screened those T-DNA pools for rice mutants that had defective chlorophylls. Among the 1,995 lines examined in the T2 generation, 189 showed a chlorophyll-deficient phenotype that segregated as a single recessive locus. Among the mutants, 10 lines were beta-glucuronidase (GUS)-positive in the leaves. Line 9-07117 has a T-DNA insertion into the gene that is highly homologous to XANTHA-F in barley and CHLH in Arabidopsis: This OsCHLH gene encodes the largest subunit of the rice Mg-chelatase, a key enzyme in the chlorophyll branch of the tetrapyrrole biosynthetic pathway. In the T2 and T3 generations, the chlorina mutant phenotypes are co-segregated with the T-DNA. We have identified two additional chlorina mutants that have a Tos17 insertion in the OsCHLH gene. Those phenotypes were co-segregated with Tos17 in the progeny. GUS assays and RNA blot analysis showed that expression of the OsCHLH gene is light inducible, while TEM analysis revealed that the thylakoid membrane of the mutant chloroplasts is underdeveloped. The chlorophyll content was very low in the OschlH mutants. This is the first report that T-DNA insertional mutagenesis can be used for functional analysis of rice genes.
12773633	The Waxy (Wx) gene encodes a granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) that plays a key role in the amylose synthesis of rice and other plant species. Two functional Wx alleles of rice exist: Wx(a), which produces a large amount of amylose, and Wx(b), which produces a smaller amount of amylose because of the mutation at the 5' splice site of intron 1. Wx(b) is largely distributed in Japonica cultivars, and high amylose cultivars do not exist in Japonica cultivars. We introduced the cloned Wx(a) cDNA into null-mutant Japonica rice (wx). The amylose contents of these transgenic plants were 6-11% higher than that of the original cultivar, Labelle, which carries the Wx(a) allele, although the levels of the Wx protein in the transgenic rice were equal to those of cv. Labelle. We also observed a gene-dosage effect of the Wx(a) transgene on Wx protein expression, but a smaller dosage effect was observed in amylose production with over 40% of amylose content in transgenic rice. Moreover, one transgenic line carrying eleven copies of the transgene showed low levels of Wx expression and amylose in the endosperm. This suggested that the integration of excessive copies of the transgene might lead to gene silencing.
12773813	In the present study, we identified and characterized two cDNAs, named TaGA1 and TaGA2, encoding alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins synthesized from one-week-old seedling mRNAs of common wheat cv. S615 using RACE PCR and RT-PCR methods. The clone TaGA1 contained an open reading frame that encoded a protein consisting of 383 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 51.3 kDa, whereas the clone TaGA2 contained an open reading frame encoding 390 amino acids with a molecular mass of 52.5 kDa. At the amino acid level, both cDNAs (TaGA1 and TaGA2) showed 70-96% and 30-40% homologies to plant and animal G-protein alpha (G alpha) subunits, respectively, and 97.7% homology to each other. The regions essential for binding to GTP were conserved among all G alpha subunits in higher plants and mammals examined. However, the C-terminal amino acid sequences of TaGA1 and TaGA2 were similar to those of cereal G alpha subunits (rice and barley) but were different from the analogous sequences of mammalian G alpha subunits as well as from those of the leguminous and Solanaeceous G alpha subunits. Southern analysis revealed that the hexaploid wheat genome contained three major copies of G alpha subunit gene with a few less homologous copies. The analysis of the expression for G alpha subunit genes in wheat showed that both TaGA1 and TaGA2 mRNAs were abundant in one-week-old seedlings, immature seeds harvested one-week after anthesis, young spikes and internodes, indicating constitutive expression patterns in all of the organs tested. Especially, young spikes and internodes exhibited increased levels of mRNA accumulation, suggesting that G alpha subunit gene is highly expressed in actively elongating and fast growing tissues. Moreover, both TaGA1 and TaGA2 showed genome-specific expressions in wheat and may participate in the light-regulated growth and development of the seedlings.
12773815	A higher GC content region of an Oryza sativa chromosome can be specifically visualized by double staining with propidium iodide (PI) and 4, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). This procedure allows identification of chromosome 9 from the other rice chromosomes at the pachytene stage. Using rice chromosome 9 as a model, an imaging method to construct a pachytene chromosomal map was developed by quantifying the fluorescence profile (FP) of each chromomere. The pachytene map of chromosome 9 consists of twenty-two chromomeres including four chromomeres within the nucleolar organizing region (NOR) and satellite region. The pachytene map was compared with the corresponding somatic prometaphase map and the linkage map. The differences among the three maps indicate that each map depicts specific biological information, which is difficult to be substituted by the other maps.
12775113	The validity of a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) was evaluated against four 7-d diet records among 23 men aged 27-70 y. Volunteer women recorded the amounts of all foods and beverages consumed by their husbands or fathers over a period of 7 d in four consecutive seasons in 1997 and 1998, and a self-administered FFQ was answered by each man after completion of the fourth diet record. The diet record was kept in accordance with the method used for Japan's National Nutrition Survey. The FFQ ascertained frequencies and amounts of consumption of rice, bread, noodles, green tea, and coffee: consumption frequency of 35 food items; and consumption frequency and amount of five alcoholic beverages. As for most nutrients and foods, mean intakes estimated by the FFQ were lower than those estimated from the diet record. Crude intake of nutrients showed fairly good agreement between the two methods in terms of Pearson's correlation coefficient (r > 0.5), except for total energy (r = 0.23), fat (r = 0.36), and vitamin A (r = 0.29). The adjustment for energy intake generally reduced the correlation; the reduction being fairly large for fat intake and vitamin A (r = 0.19 for both). There was generally good agreement for the intake of foods and beverages with exceptions for fats/oils (Spearman correlation coefficient, rs = 0.30) and other vegetables (rs = 0.35). The highest correlation was observed for alcoholic beverages (rs = 0.91), bread (rs = 0.80), and fruits (rs = 0.77). An FFQ covering a limited number of common foods may be useful in assessing the relative position of an individual's habitual consumption of foods and nutrients; however, the instrument generally underestimates absolute intake.
12775372	Canned prototypes of rice (CR) and rice meal with pork sausage (CRM) were developed as military food ration models for evaluation by personnel in the Bonifacio Naval Station, Fort Bonifacio, Makati, Philippines. The prototypes were produced based on the assumption that a serving size equivalent to 400 g cooked rice and a meat-based viand using a 1:4 (wt/wt) viand to rice ratio was adequate as a single-serve meal for a typical Philippine military personnel. The CR and CRM prototypes were low acid products with pH values of 4.9 and 5.5, respectively. The processed rice portions of the prototypes showed about 200% volume and weight increases, moderate clumpiness and low percentage breakage. More than 90% of the respondents agreed that CR and CRM were suitable military food rations. Majority of the panelists indicated preference for meat-based and poultry-based viands. Bulk and weight portativity problems, however, were raised with the 400 g serving size of cooked products in cans.
12775469	Three hundred and sixty-three samples of cereal-based infant foods were collected from the Canadian retail marketplace over 3 years. The samples included oat-, barley-, soy-, and rice-based infant cereals, mixed-grain infant cereals, teething biscuits, creamed corn, and soy-based formulas. Samples were analysed for targeted mycotoxins (deoxynivalenol, nivalenol, HT-2 toxin, zearalenone, ochratoxin A, fumonisins B(1) and B(2), and five ergot alkaloids). Soy-based cereals (which usually contain corn) exhibited the highest incidences of deoxynivalenol (100%), zearalenone (46%) and fumonisins (75%). Overall, deoxynivalenol was the most frequently detected mycotoxin--it was detected in 63% of samples analysed. Survey results demonstrated the regular occurrence of multiple mycotoxins in cereal-based infant foods.
12775484	The aim was to investigate the occurrence of deoxynivalenol (DON) in cereal and pulse products in Turkey. DON was detected using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet detection at 220 nm and positive results greater or equal to 0.60 ppm were confirmed by thin layer chromatography (TLC). An acetonitrile-water (21:4 v/v) extract of the sample was cleaned up on a column packed with alumina-Celite-charcoal (0.35 + 0.25 + 0.40 g). The detection limits for DON were 3 ng/injection (0.10 ppm) and 50 ng/spot (0.60 ppm) for HPLC and TLC, respectively. Eighty-three commercially available cereal and pulse product samples collected from markets and street bazaars were analysed. The recovery rates for boiled, pounded wheat and rice spiked with added DON (1 ppm) were 80.9% (SD 8.37, n=5) and 72.3% (3.85, n=5), respectively. DON was detected in six (8.82%) of 68 cereal and in none of 15 pulse products. The maximum detected amount was 2.67 ppm in a corn flour sample.
12776601	Whole plasmids are used in both Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and direct DNA transfer, generally leading to the integration of vector backbone sequences into the host genome along with the transgene(s). The undesirable vector backbone sequences may not only promote transgene rearrangements and affect transgene or endogenous gene expression negatively, but have disadvantage on the safe assessment of the transformants as "desert DNA". The direct DNA transforming systems can transfer minimal gene expression cassettes (promoter, open reading frame, terminator) into plant genome and generate "safer" transformants, also it can delivery multiple genes of agronomic relevance to economically-important crop plants. But there is seldom researching reports on the topic till now. The present paper studied some factors that affecting the transforming efficiency of liner gene expression cassettes to rice varieties by particle bombardment, and the integration patterns of the gene expression cassettes in rice genome were compared with that of the whole plasmids. The results showed: (1) The transforming frequency of gene expression cassettes to rice via particle bombardment is 0.1%-0.5%, the cotransforming frequency of non-selectable gene is about 50%-60% when two separate gene expression cassettes were used for transformation. Increasing the DNA mole content can increase the transforming frequency and the beside sequences of gene constructs may play an important role on the variation of transforming efficiency between different rice varieties. (2) It's reported that the selectable and non-selectable transgene expression cassettes generated low-copy-number transgenic plants with simple integration patterns. While our results showed that the non-selectable cecropin B gene cassette generated simple integration patterns with 1-3 copies in the rice genome, but the selectable bar gene cassette which got 4-14 copies had much more complex integration patterns than that of the whole plasmids which got 1-3 copies only. As the bar gene is promoted by the CaMV35 promoter, in which there is a 19 bp palindromic sequence could act as recombination hot spot and lead to DNA rearrangement, we presumed that the transgene recombination events happened during the integration course have generated the complex Southern patterns of bar gene expression cassette. The recombination character, the heredity behavior and the expression law of gene expression cassettes in the rice genomes will be reported in our future papers.
12776602	On the basis of the fertility observation of hybrids from Pei'ai 64S and Nongken 58S crossed with an indica variety Nanjing11 and japonica marker line FL235, respectively, The plant growth chambers were employed to expose the F2 plant individuals to such different day mean temperature as 24 degrees C, 27 degrees C and 30 degrees C during natural long hour daylight from July to August in Wuhan (30 degrees 27' N), with a view to analyzing the difference in the temperature sensitivity of fertility between the two kinds of different fertility-restoring genes for two years running. The results showed that, whether it was under long daylight and high temperature or under long daylight and middle temperature, the mean natural seed-set percent of F1 was higher than 68.75%, suggesting that Nanjing11 could completely restore the fertility of Pei'ai 64S. And however, under natural high temperature condition, N58S x FL235 F1 could set seed naturally with 21.93%-26.75%, the mean natural seed set percent of F1 was 46.36%-48.38% in natural middle temperature condition, ability of FL235 to restore the fertility of N58S was affected by high temperature. Further analysis proved that temperature could not alter the inheritance mode of F2 but affect the extent of fertility genes expression in Nanjing11. On the other hand, the expression of fertility-genes of FL235 was sensitive to high temperature, whose the putative critical temperature was 27 degrees C, and high temperature influenced not only the genetic interactions but also the segregation modes in F2 generations.
12776603	We developed an EST (expressed sequence tag) clustering method, ESTClustering, to generate high-quality unique expressed sequence based on large-scale EST sequencing. The method uses consensus sequences to sequence analyze with megablast and assemble each cluster with phrap in clustering process. The clustering strategy can efficiently identify gene family and alternate splicing forms of expressed sequences. It can also reduce the adverse effects caused by sequence errors. The ESTClustering method tends to provide more expressed gene forms comparing with the UniGene clustering method of the National Center for Biotechnology Information. Analysis of the 112,256 ESTs of Arabidopsis with ESTClustering produced 23,581 EST clusters. Among these Arabidopsis EST clusters, 13,597 have corresponding genome coding sequences and this number is close to the number of genes predicted with Arabidopsis ESTs. Using this clustering method, a total of 147,191 rice ESTs were clustered into 33,896 groups.
12777530	There is increasing evidence that X chromosomes have an unusual complement of genes, especially genes that have sex-specific expression. However, whereas in worm and fly the X chromosome has a dearth of male-specific genes, in mice genes that are uniquely expressed in spermatogonia are especially abundant on the X chromosome. Is this latter enrichment true for nongermline, male-specific genes in mammals, and is it found also for female-specific genes? Here, using SAGE data, we show (1) that tissue-specific genes tend to be more abundant on the human X chromosome, (2) that, controlling for this effect, genes expressed exclusively in prostate are enriched on the human X chromosome, and (3) that genes expressed exclusively in mammary gland and ovary are not so enriched. This we propose is consistent with Rice's model of the evolution of sexually antagonistic alleles.
12779116	A chimeric gene consisting of the beta-glucuronidase (gusA) reporter gene under the control of the metallothionein-like promoter cgMT1 from the tropical tree Casuarina glauca was introduced into Nicotiana tabacum via Agrobacterium tumefaciens and into Oryza sativa by particle bombardment. The strongest histochemical staining for GUS activity was observed in the root system of the transgenic plants, and especially in lateral roots. In contrast, a relatively low level of reporter gene expression was seen in the aerial tissues and GUS staining was located mainly in the plant vascular system. The average ratio of GUS activity between root and leaf was found to be 13:1 in tobacco and 1.5:1 in rice. The pattern of cgMT1 promoter activity in floral organs was found to be different in tobacco and rice. High levels of gusA gene expression were detected in the ovules, pollen grains and tapetum, whereas in rice PcgMT1 directs expression to the vascular system of the floral organs. These results suggest that PcgMT1 is potentially useful in molecular breeding to express genes of interest whose products are preferentially needed in roots.
12782297	A fertility restorer gene (Rf-1) of [ms-bo] cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) in rice has been reported to be responsible for the processing of RNA of aberrant atp6 of mitochondria. We have carried out map-based cloning of the Rf-1 gene and found that a 4.7-kb genomic fragment of a restorer line promoted the processing of aberrant atp6 RNA when introduced into a CMS line. The genomic fragment contained a single open reading frame encoding 18 repeats of the 35 amino acid pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) motif. The cloned PPR gene is a possible candidate of Rf-1. A non-restoring genotype was identified to have deletions within the coding region.
12782731	To investigate the in vivo functions of expansins, we generated transgenic rice plants that express sense and antisense constructs of the expansin gene OsEXP4. In adult plants with constitutive OsEXP4 expression, 12% of overexpressors were taller and 88% were shorter than the average control plants, and most overexpressors developed at least two additional leaves. Antisense plants were shorter and flowered earlier than the average control plants. In transgenic plants with inducible OsEXP4 expression, we observed a close correlation between OsEXP4 protein levels and seedling growth. Coleoptile and mesocotyl length increased by up to 31 and 97%, respectively, in overexpressors, whereas in antisense seedlings, they decreased by up to 28 and 43%, respectively. The change in seedling growth resulted from corresponding changes in cell size, which in turn appeared to be a function of altered cell wall extensibility. Our results support the hypothesis that expansins are involved in enhancing growth by mediating cell wall loosening.
12782736	Low glutelin content1 (Lgc1) is a dominant mutation that reduces glutelin content in rice grains. Glutelin is a major seed storage protein encoded by a multigene family. RNA gel blot and reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR analyses revealed that Lgc1 acts at the mRNA level in a similarity-dependent manner. In Lgc1 homozygotes, there is a 3.5-kb deletion between two highly similar glutelin genes that forms a tail-to-tail inverted repeat, which might produce a double-stranded RNA molecule, a potent inducer of RNA silencing. The hypothesis that Lgc1 suppresses glutelin expression via RNA silencing is supported by transgenic analysis using this Lgc1 candidate region, by reporter gene analysis, and by the detection of small interfering RNAs. In this context, Lgc1 provides an interesting example of RNA silencing occurring among genes that exhibit various levels of similarity to an RNA-silencing-inducing gene. Possible mechanisms for gene silencing of the glutelin multigene family by Lgc1 are discussed.
12784416
12784604	It has been found that commercial water-soluble soybean polysaccharides (SSPS) can make cooked rice and noodles non-sticky and prevent rice grains and noodles from adhering to each other. We studied in detail the phenomenon of rice cooked with SSPS. We assumed that the phenomenon resulted from the interaction between SSPS and starch during cooking, and studied the effects of SSPS on the gelatinizing behavior of rice starch by using a Rapid-Visco-Analyzer. The addition of SSPS reduced the viscosity of the gelatinized starch. This lower final viscosity of the rice starch was more distinct from than that of potato starch. These results imply that the properties of SSPS in forming a non-sticky condition might result from a decrease in the viscosity of the gelatinized starch.
12784627	Chitinase C (ChiC) is the first bacterial family 19 chitinase discovered in Streptomyces griseus HUT6037. In vitro, ChiC clearly inhibited hyphal extension of Trichoderma reesei but a rice family 19 chitinase did not. In order to investigate the effects of ChiC as an increaser of plant resistance to fungal diseases, the chiC gene was introduced into rice plants under the control of the increased CaMV 35S promoter and a signal sequence from the rice chitinase gene. Transgenic plants were morphologically normal. Resistance to leaf blast disease caused by Magnaporthe grisea was evaluated in R1 and R2 generations using a spray method. Ninety percent of transgenic rice plants expressing ChiC had higher resistance than non-transgenic plants. Disease resistance of sibling plants within the same line was correlated with the ChiC expression levels. ChiC produced in rice plants accumulated intercellularly and had the hydrolyzing activity against glycol chitin.
12784637	In addition to momilactone, phytocassanes A through E (diterpene phytoalexins) were detected in rice leaves in fields suffering from rice blast. Furthermore, phytocassane accumulation was most abundant at the edges of necrotic lesions, indicating that the phytoalexins prevent subsequent spread of the fungus from the infected site. In pot experiments the pattern of phytocassane accumulation in rice leaves in an incompatible interaction (infection with an avirulent race of Magnaporthe grisea) was more rapidly induced than in a compatible interaction (infection with a virulent race of M. grisea).
12784641	Trichothecene 3-O-acetyltransferase (encoded by Tri101) inactivates the virulence factor of the cereal pathogen Fusarium graminearum. Zearalenone hydrolase (encoded by zhd101) detoxifies the oestrogenic mycotoxin produced by the same pathogen. These genes were introduced into a model monocotyledon rice plant to evaluate their usefulness for decontamination of mycotoxins. The strong and constitutive rice Act1 promoter did not cause accumulation of TRI101 protein in transgenic rice plants. In contrast, the same promoter was suitable for transgenic production of ZHD101 protein; so far, five promising T0 plants have been generated. Low transgenic expression of Tri101 was suggested to be increased by addition of an omega enhancer sequence upstream of the start codon.
12786145	We present a two-dimensional system that exhibits features of self-organized criticality. The avalanches that occur on the surface of a pile of rice are found to exhibit finite size scaling in their probability distribution. The critical exponents are tau=1.21(2) for the avalanche size distribution and D=1.99(2) for the cutoff size. Furthermore, the geometry of the avalanches is studied, leading to a fractal dimension of the active sites of d(B)=1.58(2). Using a set of scaling relations, we can calculate the roughness exponent alpha=D-d(B)=0.41(3) and the dynamic exponent z=D(2-tau)=1.56(8). This result is compared with that obtained from a power-spectrum analysis of the surface roughness, which yields alpha=0.42(3) and z=1.5(1) in excellent agreement with those obtained from the scaling relations.
12787243	The completed rice genome sequence will accelerate progress on the identification and functional classification of biologically important genes and serve as an invaluable resource for the comparative analysis of grass genomes. In this study, methods were developed for sequence-based alignment of sorghum and rice chromosomes and for refining the sorghum genetic/physical map based on the rice genome sequence. A framework of 135 BAC contigs spanning approximately 33 Mbp was anchored to sorghum chromosome 3. A limited number of sequences were collected from 118 of the BACs and subjected to BLASTX analysis to identify putative genes and BLASTN analysis to identify sequence matches to the rice genome. Extensive conservation of gene content and order between sorghum chromosome 3 and the homeologous rice chromosome 1 was observed. One large-scale rearrangement was detected involving the inversion of an approximately 59 cM block of the short arm of sorghum chromosome 3. Several small-scale changes in gene collinearity were detected, indicating that single genes and/or small clusters of genes have moved since the divergence of sorghum and rice. Additionally, the alignment of the sorghum physical map to the rice genome sequence allowed sequence-assisted assembly of an approximately 1.6 Mbp sorghum BAC contig. This streamlined approach to high-resolution genome alignment and map building will yield important information about the relationships between rice and sorghum genes and genomic segments and ultimately enhance our understanding of cereal genome structure and evolution.
12787245	In germinating rice seeds, a cysteine proteinase (REP-1), synthesized in aleurone-layer cells, is a key enzyme in the degradation of the major storage protein, glutelin. The expression of the gene for REP-1 (Rep1) is induced by gibberellins (GAs) and repressed by abscisic acid (ABA). To identify GA-responsive elements in the Rep1 promoter, we developed a transient expression system in rice aleurone cells. Deletion and point-mutation analyses indicated that the GA-response complex was composed of TAACAGA, TAACGTA, and two copies of CAACTC. The two former sequences were identical to GAREs conserved in the promoter of genes for alpha-amylase and proteinases in cereals. The latter, termed as CAACTC regulatory elements (CAREs), were novel GAREs. Gain-of-function experiments revealed that two pairs of GARE and CARE were necessary and sufficient to confer GA inducibility. The sequences were also required for effective transactivation by the transcription factor OsGAMyb. Four copies of either GARE or CARE showed transactivation neither by OsGAMyb nor by GA induction. CARE and GARE were also found in the promoters of a rice alpha-amylase gene, RAmy1A, and a barley proteinase gene, EPB1, which are expressed in germinating seeds. Mutations of CARE in their promoters caused a loss of GA inducibility and GAMyb transactivation, suggesting that CARE is the regulatory element for GA-inducible expression of hydrolase genes in the germinating seeds.
12787263
12787489	Changes in the concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), soluble calcium ions, glutamic acid, and the activity of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) were investigated in non-germinated vs. germinated brown rice. Brown rice was germinated for 72 h by applying each of the following solutions: (1) distilled water, (2) 5 mM lactic acid, (3) 50 ppm chitosan in 5 mM lactic acid, (4) 5 mM glutamic acid, and (5) 50 ppm chitosan in 5 mM glutamic acid. GABA concentrations were enhanced in all of the germinated brown rice when compared to the non-germinated brown rice. The GABA concentration was highest in the chitosan/glutamic acid that germinated brown rice at 2,011 nmol/g fresh weight, which was 13 times higher than the GABA concentration in the non-germinated brown rice at 154 nmol/g fresh weight. The concentrations of glutamic acid were significantly decreased in all of the germinated rice, regardless of the germination solution. Soluble calcium and GAD were higher in the germinated brown rice with the chitosan/glutamic acid solution when compared to the rice that was germinated in the other solutions. GAD that was partially purified from germinated brown rice was stimulated about 3.6-fold by the addition of calmodulin in the presence of calcium. These data show that the germination of brown rice in a chitosan/glutamic acid solution can significantly increase GABA synthesis activity and the concentration of GABA.
12787736	Viral encephalitis (VE) continues to be a major disease in Asia, causing serious illness which may result in death or have neurological sequelae. This study involves an ecological analysis of the climatic, geographic and seasonal patterns of clinically reported VE in Thailand from 1993 to 1998 to investigate regional and seasonal differences in disease incidence. Three thousand eight hundred and twenty nine cases of VE were clinically diagnosed nationwide during the study period by the Thai Ministry of Public Health. Spearman rank correlations of temporal, spatial and geographic variables with disease incidence were performed. The monthly incidence of VE correlated significantly with seasonal changes in temperature, relative humidity and rainfall in the north-northeast region of Thailand (P < 0.001), whereas incidence in the south-central region correlated only with relative humidity (P = 0.003). Spatial analysis revealed a positive correlation of disease with elevation (P < 0.001), and negative correlations with rice-field cover (P < 0.001), agricultural land-use (P < 0.001) and temperature (P = 0.004) in the north-northeast region. No significant spatial correlation was identified in the south-central region. The spatial distribution of VE suggests that etiologic variations may be responsible, in part, for the geographic patterns of disease. Active etiologic surveillance is necessary in a variety of geographic settings in order to provide physicians with information necessary for disease prevention and clinical management.
12789450	The expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its inheritance were studied in transgenic oat (Avena sativa L.) plants transformed with a synthetic green fluorescent protein gene [sgfp(S65T)] driven by a rice actin promoter. In vitro shoot meristematic cultures (SMCs) induced from shoot apices of germinating mature seeds of a commercial oat cultivar, Garry, were used as a transformation target. Proliferating SMCs were bombarded with a mixture of plasmids containing the sgfp(S65T) gene and one of three selectable marker genes, phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (bar), hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) and neomycin phosphotransferase (nptII). Cultures were selected with bialaphos, hygromycin B and geneticin (G418), respectively, to identify transgenic tissues. From 289 individual explants bombarded with the sgfp(S65T) gene and one of the three selectable marker genes, 23 independent transgenic events were obtained, giving a 8.0% transformation frequency. All 23 transgenic events were regenerable, and 64% produced fertile plants. Strong GFP expression driven by the rice actin promoter was observed in a variety of tissues of the T(0) plants and their progeny in 13 out of 23 independent transgenic lines. Stable GFP expression was observed in T(2) progeny from five independent GFP-expressing lines tested, and homozygous plants from two lines were obtained. Transgene silencing was observed in T(0) plants and their progeny of some transgenic lines.
12791229	To systematically review the clinical evidence for herbal medicinal products in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. A systematic review of randomized clinical trials of herbal medicinal products used to lower serum cholesterol. Systematic literature searches were conducted in 6 electronic data-bases. The reference lists of all papers and our files were searched for more relevant publications. Experts in the field and manufacturers of identified herbal medicinal products were contacted for published and unpublished data. No language restrictions were imposed. All randomized clinical trials of serum cholesterol reduction, in which mono-preparations of herbal medicinal products were administered as supplements to human subjects, were included. Twenty-five randomized clinical trials involving 11 herbal medicinal products were identified. Guggul (Commiphora mukul), fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum), red yeast rice, and artichoke (Cynara scolymus) have been most extensively studied and have demonstrated reductions in total serum cholesterol levels of between10% and 33%. The methodological quality as assessed by the Jadad score was less than 3 (maximum, 5) for 13 of the 25 trials. Many herbal medicinal products have potential hypocholesterolemic activity and encouraging safety profiles. However, only a limited amount of clinical research exists to support their efficacy. Further research is warranted to establish the value of these extracts in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia.
12791992	Rice is the world's most important food crop and a model for cereal research. At 430 megabases in size, its genome is the most compact of the cereals. We report the sequence of chromosome 10, the smallest of the 12 rice chromosomes (22.4 megabases), which contains 3471 genes. Chromosome 10 contains considerable heterochromatin with an enrichment of repetitive elements on 10S and an enrichment of expressed genes on 10L. Multiple insertions from organellar genomes were detected. Collinearity was apparent between rice chromosome 10 and sorghum and maize. Comparison between the draft and finished sequence demonstrates the importance of finished sequence.
1279205	Using BspMI cassette vectors, we have constructed a series of mutations in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase (RT) that cause specific amino acid substitutions within the polymerase domain. The RNA-dependent DNA polymerase, DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, and RNase H activities of the mutant RTs were assayed. The elucidation of the structure of HIV-1 RT makes it possible to determine the locations of specific mutations in the three-dimensional structure of HIV-1 RT [E. Arnold, A. Jacobo-Molina, R. G. Nanni, R. L. Williams, X. Lu, J. Ding, A. D. Clark, Jr., A. Zhang, A. L. Ferris, P. Clark, A. Hizi, and S. H. Hughes, Nature (London) 357:85-89, 1992; L. A. Kohlstaedt, J. Wang, J. M. Friedman, P. A. Rice, and T. A. Steitz, Science 256:1783-1790, 1992]. The mutations described in this report are between amino acids 25 and 81, within the "fingers" domain of RT (Kohlstaedt et al., Science 256:1783-1790, 1992). It has been suggested that this domain may play a role in positioning the template. Although the fingers domain does not contain the active site for polymerization, several of the mutations within this domain disrupt polymerase activity without significantly affecting RNase H activity.
12792658	The objectives were to examine the feasibility of using white rice as a reference food in the study of glycemic index (GI) and to examine the GI values of both single and mixed meal foods among rice species, processed rice products, beans, and dairy products. Subjects were served with 50 g carbohydrate content of white rice at least two times (maximum three times) and test food once after separate overnight fasts. Capillary blood glucose measurements were carried out before and during 120 min after each food load. The study was carried out in an outpatient setting. A total of 58 (38 females and 20 males) nondiseased subjects, mean aged 37 y and mean BMI 22 kg/m(2) were included. The correlation between incremental area under curve of white rice and glucose was r=0.853 (n=10, P <0.0001) and white rice was considered suitable to be used as a reference food. Among mixed meal foods, the combination of carbohydrate foods with vinegar, dairy products, and bean products significantly decreased the GI value of white rice of 20-40%. The reduction of GI occurred whether the foods were taken together, before or after rice intake. GI of noodles such as udon, soba, and spaghetti showed low GI values. White rice could be used as a reference food in determining GI values of foods. A total of 32 single and mixed meal Japanese common food products were examined for their GI values.
12792738	Epidemiological and preclinical studies have suggested that nutrition plays an important role in the etiology of cancer. Our group previously demonstrated that rice germ or fermented brown rice has a preventive effect on colorectal carcinogenesis. The experiment described here was examined for the potential anticancer properties of brown rice fermented by Aspergillus Oryzae (FBRA) in male F344 rats using inhibition of diethylnitrosoamine (DEN) and phenobarbital (PB)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis as the measure of preventive efficacy when this agent was administered at 5% and 10% levels in diet during initiation phase (during and until 1 week after carcinogen treatment) or post-initiation phase (beginning 1 week after carcinogen treatment) of the carcinogenesis. Rats were sacrificed 20 weeks after the initiation of DEN treatment (200 mg/kg body weight, once weekly for 3 weeks). Expression of liver tumors was evaluated histopathologically. Administration of 10% FBRA in the diet during the initiation phase significantly decreased the incidence (43% vs. 8%) and multiplicity (0.5+/-0.6 vs. 0.1+/-0.3) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as compared to those given the control diet. In addition, 5% and 10% of FBRA in the diet during post-initiation phase significantly decreased the incidence of HCC (43% vs. 15% and 9%, respectively) and multiplicity of hepatocellular adenoma (4.7+/-3.7 vs. 2.1+/-2.2 and 2.4+/-1.4, respectively) and HCC (0.5+/-0.6 vs. 0.2+/-0.4 and 0.1+/-0.3, respectively). These data prove that FBRA has an inhibitory effect on the hepatocarcinogenesis in rats. FBRA could be a promising chemopreventive agent for human liver as well as colorectal neoplasia.
12793751	Heavy-ion irradiation is a new method of mutation breeding to produce new cultivars. We established the application of this method in rice plants to obtain mutants. Rice seeds were irradiated by C or Ne ions (135MeV/u) with a LET (linear energy transfer) of 22.7 or 64.2 keV/microm, respectively. Chlorophyll-deficient mutants (CDM) segregated in M2 progeny were albino, pale-green, yellow or striped-leave phenotypes. The highest rate of CDM with C-ion irradiation, 7.31%, was obtained at 40 Gy among the doses examined. Ne-ion irradiation gave the highest rate, 11.6%, at 20 Gy. We used the RLGS (Restriction Landmark Genomic Scanning) method to analyze DNA deletion in an albino mutant genome. Not I-landmark RLGS profiles detected about 2000 spots in rice. We found that one of the polymorphic spots was strongly linked to the albino phenotypic mutant derived from deleting of a DNA fragment, and demonstrated the high ability to detect of polymorphic regions by the RLGS method.
12793910	Most of the previous studies regarding the effects of gel-forming fibres have considered the gastric emptying of liquid or solid meals after the addition of pectin or guar gum. The influence of locust bean gum, on gastric emptying of nutrient semisolid meals in humans has been less well studied, despite its common occurrence in foods. Using a standardised ultrasound method, this study was aimed at investigating if the gastric emptying in healthy subjects could be influenced by adding locust been gum, a widely used thickening agent, or water directly into a nutrient semisolid test meal. The viscosity of a basic test meal (300 g rice pudding, 330 kcal) was increased by adding Nestargel (6 g, 2.4 kcal), containing viscous dietary fibres (96.5%) provided as seed flour of locust bean gum, and decreased by adding 100 ml of water. Gastric emptying of these three test meals were evaluated in fifteen healthy non-smoking volunteers, using ultrasound measurements of the gastric antral area to estimate the gastric emptying rate (GER). The median value of GER with the basic test meal (rice pudding) was estimated at 63%, (range 47 to 84%), (the first quartile = 61%, the third quartile = 69%). Increasing the viscosity of the rice pudding by adding Nestargel, resulted in significantly lower gastric emptying rates (p < 0.01), median GER 54%, (range 7 to 71%), (the first quartile = 48%, the third quartile = 60%). When the viscosity of the rice pudding was decreased (basic test meal added with water), the difference in median GER 65%, (range 38 to 79%), (the first quartile = 56%, the third quartile = 71%) was not significantly different (p = 0.28) compared to the GER of the basic test meal. We conclude that the addition of locust bean gum to a nutrient semisolid meal has a major impact on gastric emptying by delaying the emptying rate, but that the addition of water to this test meal has no influence on gastric emptying in healthy subjects.
12795699	Na+ uptake in the roots of K+-starved seedlings of barley, rice, and wheat was found to exhibit fast rate, low Km, and high sensitivity to K+. Sunflower plants responded in a similar manner but the uptake was not K+ sensitive. Ba2+ inhibited Na+ uptake, but not K+ uptake in rice roots. This demonstrated that Na+ and K+ uptake are mediated by different transporters, and that K+ blocked but was not transported by the Na+ transporter. The genome of rice cv. Nipponbare contains seven HKT genes, which may encode Na+ transporters, plus two HKT pseudogenes. Yeast expressions of OsHKT1 and OsHKT4 proved that they are Na+ transporters of high and low affinity, respectively, which are sensitive to K+ and Ba2+. Parallel experiments of K+ and Na+ uptake in yeast expressing the wheat or rice HKT1 transporters proved that they were very different; TaHKT1 transported K+ and Na+, and OsHKT1 only Na+. Transcript expressions in shoots of the OsHKT genes were fairly constant and insensitive to changes in the K+ and Na+ concentrations of the nutrient solution. In roots, the expressions were much lower than in shoots, except for OsHKT4 and OsHKT1 in K+-starved plants. We propose that OsHKT transporters are involved in Na+ movements in rice, and that OsHKT1 specifically mediates Na+ uptake in rice roots when the plants are K+ deficient. The incidence of HKT ESTs in several plant species suggests that the rice model with many HKT genes applies to other plants.
12796462	The swamp eel Monopterus albus inhabits muddy ponds, swamps, canals and rice fields, where it can burrow within the moist earth during the dry summer season, thus surviving for long periods without water. This study aimed to elucidate the strategies adopted by M. albus to defend against endogenous ammonia toxicity when kept out of water for 144 h (6 days). Like any other fish, M. albus has difficulties in excreting ammonia during aerial exposure. In fact, the rates of ammonia and urea excretions decreased significantly in specimens throughout the 144 h of aerial exposure. At 144 h, the ammonia and urea excretion rates decreased to 20% and 25%, respectively, of the corresponding control values. Consequently, ammonia accumulated to high levels in the tissues and plasma of the experimental specimens. Apparently, M. albus has developed relatively higher ammonia tolerance at the cellular and subcellular levels compared with many other teleost fish. Since the urea concentration in the tissues of specimens exposed to air remained low, urea synthesis was apparently not adopted as a strategy to detoxify endogenous ammonia during 144 h of aerial exposure. Instead, ammonia produced through amino acid catabolism was detoxified to glutamine, leading to the accumulation of glutamine in the body during the first 72 h of aerial exposure. Complementing the increased glutamine formation was a significant increase in glutamine synthetase activity in the liver of specimens exposed to air for 144 h. Formation of glutamine is energetically expensive. It is probably because M. albus remained relatively inactive on land that the reduction in energy demand for locomotory activity facilitated its exploitation of glutamine formation to detoxify endogenous ammonia. There was a slight decrease in the glutamine level in the body of the experimental animals between 72 h and 144 h of aerial exposure, which indicates that glutamine might not be the end product of nitrogen metabolism. In addition, these results suggest that suppression of endogenous ammonia production, possibly through reductions in proteolysis and amino acid catabolism, acts as the major strategy to avoid ammonia intoxication in specimens exposed to air for >/=72 h. It is concluded that glutamine formation and reduction in ammonia production together served as effective strategies to avoid the excessive accumulation of ammonia in the body of M. albus during 144 h of aerial exposure. However, these strategies might not be adequate to sustain the survival of M. albus in the mud for longer periods during drought because ammonia and glutamine concentrations had already built up to high levels in the body of specimens exposed to air for 144 h.
12797742	An affinity-based purification procedure with the immobilized family 11 Bacillus subtilis endoxylanase XynA allowed us to obtain high yields of highly pure endoxylanase inhibitor fractions from rye, barley, and durum wheat. In contrast, no inhibitors interacting with the B. subtilis endoxylanase affinity column are present in corn, buckwheat, rice, and oats. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis and inhibitor specificity showed that the isolated inhibitors belonged to the TAXI endoxylanase inhibitor family, thus providing a view on the diversity of this cereal inhibitor family. The isolated inhibitors are basic proteins of ca. 40 kDa, occurring in two molecular forms, with pI values of ca. 8.5 (durum wheat) and ca. 9.0 (rye, barley). They are, in general, strong inhibitors of family 11 endoxylanases but not of family 10 endoxylanases. Because cereal endogenous endoxylanases belong to the latter family, this probably indicates that they do not influence cereal metabolic processes. For the first time, endoxylanase inhibitors, similar to TAXI I and TAXI II from wheat, were isolated from durum wheat and characterized. For each cereal, high-resolution cation exchange chromatography revealed the presence of multiple isoinhibitors, each of which occurs in two molecular forms. However, in durum wheat and barley, a single isoform is predominantly present.
12797748	Gluten-free breads are usually characterized by deficient quality characteristics as compared to wheat breads. Problems related to volume and crumb texture are associated with gluten-free breads even when rice flour is used, which seems to be the best raw material for this type of bread. The potential use of cyclodextrin glycosyl transferase (CGTase) as a rice bread improver is presented. The effect of CGTase addition to rice flour on dough rheology and bread quality was investigated. In addition, an experimental design was developed to optimize the levels of CGTase, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC), and oil. The addition of CGTase produced a reduction in the dough consistency and also in the elastic modulus. With regard to the rice bread quality, better specific volume, shape index, and crumb texture were obtained. The amount of cyclodextrins in the bread crumb was quantified to explain the action of this enzyme. The data indicate that the improving effect of the CGTase results from a combination of its hydrolyzing and cyclizing activities, the latter being responsible for the release of cyclodextrins, which have the ability to form complexes with lipids and proteins.
1279847	As part of a plan to develop a rice-based oral rehydration solution containing short polymers of glucose instead of glucose, we determined the concentration of amylase that would yield the largest amount of short chain polymers. Thai rice (25 g) was boiled with 500 ml of distilled water for 30 min. Of 200 ml supernatant rice water obtained, 100 ml were digested with different amounts of amylase after cooling to 50 degrees C for 60 min, boiled for 5 min, and centrifuged (10,000 g, 25 degrees C) for 60 min. The resulting supernatant (80 ml) was freeze-dried; 1.75 g of the powder obtained were dissolved in 3.5 ml of water, passed through a Bio-Gel P2 column to separate short chain polymers (2-9 molecules of glucose) and long chain polymers (> 9 molecules of glucose), which were identified by spectrophotometry (lambda = 190 nm) or by high performance liquid chromatography. Ten mg of amylase (equivalent to 12,000 modified Wohlgemath units) per 100 ml of rice water was optimal for the production of short polymers of glucose from rice.
12799356	Fingerprinted clone physical maps have proven useful in various applications, supporting both whole-genome and region-specific DNA sequencing as well as gene cloning studies. Fingerprint maps have been generated for several genomes, including those of human, mouse, rat, the nematodes Caenorhabditis elegans and Caenorhabditis briggsae, Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. Fingerprint maps of other genomes, including those of fungi, bacteria, poplar, and the cow, are being generated. The increasing use of fingerprint maps in genomic research has spawned a need in the research community for intuitive computer tools that facilitate viewing of the maps and the underlying fingerprint data. In this report we describe a new Java-based application called iCE (Internet Contig Explorer) that has been designed to provide views of fingerprint maps and associated data. Users can search for and display individual clones, contigs, clone fingerprints, clone insert sizes and markers. Users can also load into the software lists of particular clones of interest and view their fingerprints. iCE is being used at our Genome Centre to offer up to the research community views of the mouse, rat, bovine, C. briggsae, and several fungal genome bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) fingerprint maps we have either completed or are currently constructing. We are also using iCE as part of the Rat Genome Sequencing Project to manage our provision of rat BAC clones for sequencing at the Human Genome Sequencing Center at the Baylor College of Medicine.
12799469	Little is known concerning the mechanisms by which auxin and cytokinin exert their effects on proliferation and differentiation. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are major regulators of the eukaryotic cell cycle, thus they are assumed to control cell differentiation as well as proliferation in response to phytohormone signals. Here, we overexpressed rice R2 cDNA, which encodes a CDK-activating kinase, in tobacco leaf explants by using the glucocorticoid-mediated transcriptional induction system. Transient expression of R2 during the first 7 days of culture triggered callus formation in the absence of cytokinin. This phenotype was enhanced by higher expression of R2 or coexpression of cyclin H, and suppressed by treatment with roscovitine, a CDK inhibitor. R2 expression at a later stage did not prevent cells from differentiation into roots, suggesting a restricted period for sensing CDK activities that control differentiation fate of cells during organogenesis.
12799492	The endosperm and embryo that constitute the filial tissues of rice caryopsis are isolated from the maternal tissues by the absence of any symplastic continuity. Nutrients are transported to the endosperm through a single ovular vascular trace present on the ventral side of the ovary. Initially solute enters through the chalaza into the nucellar projection and then into the endosperm. At later stages transport occurs through the nucellar epidermis, centripetally towards the endosperm. The cell walls of the nucellar epidermis are provided with rib-like thicken ings. A comparison of grain-filling in C3 and C4 cereals suggests that rice has structural features allied to C3 cereals, such as wheat, but with significant differences.
12800657	A special rice field experiment was conducted to investigate the characteristic and mechanism of phosphorus (P) loss potential in subsurface runoff from rice field. Teflon Suction Cups (TSC) were inserted into tested plots in 15-20 cm in the rice field for water sampling dynamically. The range of molybdate reactive phosphorus (MRP) in sub-surface runoff were 0.110-0.273 mg/L, 0.085-0.285 mg/L during growth seasons of early rice and later rice, respectively. The magnitude of MRP concentrations in subsurface runoff in 15-20 cm from rice field was more consistent with trend of soil P accumulation (expressed as Olsen-P) due to P application. P concentration and its expected loss loading in the subsurface runoff in 15-20 cm in the rice field were not affected by P application combined with manure.
12801008	A method for the direct quantitative analysis of cereulide, the emetic toxin of Bacillus cereus, in bakery products was developed. The analysis was based on robotized extraction followed by quantitation of cereulide by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and an assay of toxicity by the boar sperm motility inhibition test. The bioassay and the chemical assay gave comparable results, demonstrating that the extracted cereulide was in a biologically active form. Cereulide was formed when cereulide-producing B. cereus strains were present at > or = 10(6) CFU/g in products with water activity values of > 0.953 and pHs of > 5.6. Rice-containing pastries accumulated high contents of cereulide (0.3 to 5.5 microg/g [wet weight]) when stored at nonrefrigeration temperatures (21 to 23 degrees C). Cereulide was not formed in products stored at refrigeration temperatures (4 to 8 degrees C). Cereulide is not inactivated by heating during food processing. Therefore, direct analysis of this toxin in food is preferable to cultivating methods for assessing the risk of food poisoning by emetic B. cereus.
12801509	Plant nonspecific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are characterized by their ability to bind a broad range of hydrophobic ligands in vitro. Their biological function has not yet been elucidated, but they could play a major role in plant defense to physical and biological stress. An nsLTP was isolated from Amaranthus hypochondriacus seeds and purified by gel filtration and reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography techniques. The molecular mass of the protein as determined by mass spectrometry is 9747.29 Da. Data from amino acid sequence, circular dichroism and binding/displacement of a fluorescent lipid revealed that it belongs to the nsLTP1 family. The protein shows the alpha-helical secondary structure typical for plant nsLTPs 1 and shares 40 to 57% sequence identity with nsLTPs 1 from other plant species and 100% identity with an nsLTP1 from Amaranthus caudatus. A model structure of the protein in complex with stearate based on known structures of maize and rice nsLTPs 1 suggests a protein fold complexed with lipids closely related to that of maize nsLTP1.
12803547	Biodegradation of the main components of the cellulose-paint thinner (toluene, acetone, isopropanol and xylenes) by Scopulariopsis brevicaulis, isolated from a thinner biodegradation microbial consortium was investigated. Our results showed that 90% of S. brevicaulis conidia survived after 4 weeks in a cellulose-paint thinner saturated atmosphere. The mould was able to grow under these environmental conditions with a low development of conidia. The biodegradation potential of S. brevicaulis was established with and without support material (rice hulls). Biodegradation without support was very limited, <10% for all the components quantified. There was notable thinner biodegradation when the fungus was grown on rice hulls. Our results suggest the potential use of fungi in biofiltration systems employed in biodegradation of the main components of the cellulose-paint thinner. This is the first report of volatile organic compounds biodegradation by this fungal species.
12803563	To develop a natural fungicide against aflatoxigenic fungi, to protect stored rice, using the essential oil of lemongrass. Aspergillus flavus Link. was isolated from stored rice and identified as an aflatoxigenic strain. Lemongrass oil was tested against A. flavus and the test oil was fungistatic and fungicidal against the test pathogen at 0.6 and 1.0 mg ml(-1), respectively. Aflatoxin production was completely inhibited at 0.1 mg ml(-1). The results obtained from the thin layer chromatographic bioassay and gas chromatography indicated citral a and b as the fungicidal constituents in lemongrass oil. During the fumigant toxicity assay of lemongrass oil, the sporulation and the mycelial growth of the test pathogen were inhibited at the concentrations of 2.80 and 3.46 mg ml(-1), respectively. Lemongrass oil could be used to manage aflatoxin formation and fungal growth of A. flavus in stored rice. Currently, fungicides are not used to control fungal pests or mycotoxin production on stored rice. Rice treated with the essential oil of lemongrass could be used to manage fungal pests as well as the insect pests in stored rice. The essential oil is chemically safe and acceptable to consumers, as synthetic chemical fungicides can cause adverse health effects to consumers.
12803614	Changes in abscisic acid (ABA) contents in Cd-treated rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings of two cultivars were investigated. On treatment with CdCl2, the ABA content rapidly increased in the leaves and roots of Cd-tolerant cultivar (cv. Tainung 67, TNG67) but not in the Cd-sensitive cultivar (cv. Taichung Native 1, TN1). The reduction of transpiration rate of TN1 caused by Cd was less than that of TNG67. Exogenous application of ABA reduced transpiration rate, decreased Cd content, and enhanced Cd tolerance of TN1 seedlings. Exogenous application of the ABA biosynthesis inhibitor, fluridone, reduced ABA accumulation, increased transpiration rate and Cd content, and decreased Cd tolerance of TNG67 seedlings. Fluridone effect on Cd toxicity of TNG67 seedlings was reversed by the application of ABA. The roles of endogenous ABA in Cd tolerance of rice seedlings are discussed and suggested.
12803618	In order to investigate the molecular basis of high-affinity ammonium absorption by roots of rice plants (Oryza sativa subspecies indica) the expression patterns of three members of the AMT1 family of genes in rice seedling roots in response to altered nitrogen provision and diurnal changes in irradiance were examined. The 13NH4+ influx and transcript levels of OsAMT1.1 in roots decreased several fold within 48 h when plants acclimated to 10 micro m external NH4+ for 3 weeks were transferred to 10 mm NH4+. Likewise when plants acclimated in 10 mm NH4+ were transferred to 10 micro m NH4+, there was an equally rapid up-regulation of OsAMT1.1 and 13NH4+ influx in the roots. Changes in transcript abundance of OsAMT1.2 following these treatments were approximately 50% less than in OsAMT1.1, and changes of OsAMT1.3 expression were even less. By contrast, in response to the diurnal changes of irradiance, root transcript abundance of OsAMT1.3 and 15NH4+ influx increased approximately three-fold late in the photoperiod, whereas OsAMT1.1 and OsAMT1.2 exhibited only modest changes. The present results suggest that high-affinity NH4+ influx is differentially regulated at the transcriptional level through the expression of three members of the OsAMT1 family of genes in roots of rice seedlings in response to changes of N status and daily irradiance. In general, these findings are in agreement with earlier observations in Arabidopsis and tomato.
12805592	Members of the P-type ATPase ion pump superfamily are found in all three branches of life. Forty-six P-type ATPase genes were identified in Arabidopsis, the largest number yet identified in any organism. The recent completion of two draft sequences of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome allows for comparison of the full complement of P-type ATPases in two different plant species. Here, we identify a similar number (43) in rice, despite the rice genome being more than three times the size of Arabidopsis. The similarly large families suggest that both dicots and monocots have evolved with a large preexisting repertoire of P-type ATPases. Both Arabidopsis and rice have representative members in all five major subfamilies of P-type ATPases: heavy-metal ATPases (P1B), Ca2+-ATPases (endoplasmic reticulum-type Ca2+-ATPase and autoinhibited Ca2+-ATPase, P2A and P2B), H+-ATPases (autoinhibited H+-ATPase, P3A), putative aminophospholipid ATPases (ALA, P4), and a branch with unknown specificity (P5). The close pairing of similar isoforms in rice and Arabidopsis suggests potential orthologous relationships for all 43 rice P-type ATPases. A phylogenetic comparison of protein sequences and intron positions indicates that the common angiosperm ancestor had at least 23 P-type ATPases. Although little is known about unique and common features of related pumps, clear differences between some members of the calcium pumps indicate that evolutionarily conserved clusters may distinguish pumps with either different subcellular locations or biochemical functions.
12805623	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) is distributed in plants and bacteria but is not found in fungi and animal cells. Important motifs for enzyme activity and structure are conserved in plant and bacterial PEPCs, with the exception of a phosphorylation domain present at the N terminus of all plant PEPCs reported so far, which is absent in the bacterial enzymes. Here, we describe a gene from Arabidopsis, stated as Atppc4, encoding a PEPC, which shows more similarity to Escherichia coli than to plant PEPCs. Interestingly, this enzyme lacks the phosphorylation domain, hence indicating that it is a bacterial-type PEPC. Three additional PEPC genes are present in Arabidopsis, stated as Atppc1, Atppc2, and Atppc3, encoding typical plant-type enzymes. As most plant PEPC genes, Atppc1, Atppc2, and Atppc3 are formed by 10 exons interrupted by nine introns. In contrast, Atppc4 gene has an unusual structure formed by 20 exons. A bacterial-type PEPC gene was also identified in rice (Oryza sativa), stated as Osppc-b, therefore showing the presence of this type of PEPC in monocots. The phylogenetic analysis suggests that both plant-type and bacterial-type PEPCs diverged early during the evolution of plants from a common ancestor, probably the PEPC from gamma-proteobacteria. The diversity of plant-type PEPCs in C3, C4, and Crassulacean acid metabolism plants is indicative of the evolutionary success of the regulation by phosphorylation of this enzyme. Although at a low level, the bacterial-type PEPC genes are expressed in Arabidopsis and rice.
12805734	Nitrogen and sulphur, both vital structural elements, are especially needed for the synthesis of proteins and oils. Investigations revealed the required application of sulphur is one half to one third the amount of nitrogen, and the ratio becomes narrower in mustard (Brassica juncea L.), followed by wheat and rice. The efficiency of an increased level of nitrogen required a proportionately higher amount of sulphur. A critical investigation on the effective utilization of applied vis-à-vis absorbed nitrogen in wheat and mustard envisaged accumulation of NO3-N in vegetative parts when sulphur remained proportionately low. Application of sulphur hastened the chemical reduction of absorbed NO3- for its effective utilization. The effect was more pronounced in mustard than in wheat. Easily available forms of sulphur, like ammonium sulphate and gypsum, as compared to pyrite or elemental sulphur, maintained adequate N to S ratio in rice, resulting in a reduction in the percent of unfilled grain, a major consideration in rice yield. A narrow N to S ratio, with both at higher levels, increased the oil content but raised the saponification value of the oil, a measure of free fatty acids. Whereas, a proportionately narrow N to S ratio at moderate dose resulted in adequately higher seed and oil yield with relatively low saponification value, associated with increased iodine value of the oil, indicating respectively low free fatty acids and higher proportion of unsaturated fatty acids, an index for better quality of the oil.
12805736	Ground-based remotely sensed reflectance spectra of hyperspectral resolution were monitored during the growing period of rice under various nitrogen application rates. It was found that reflectance spectrum of rice canopy changed in both wavelength and reflectance as the plants developed. Fifteen characteristic wavebands were identified from the apparent peaks and valleys of spectral reflectance curves, in accordance with the results of the first-order differentiation, measured over the growing season of rice. The bandwidths and center wavelengths of these characteristic wavebands were different among nitrogen treatments. The simplified features by connecting these 15 characteristic wavelengths may be considered as spectral signatures of rice canopy, but spectral signatures varied with developmental age and nitrogen application rates. Among these characteristic wavebands, the changes of the wavelength in band 11 showed a positive linear relationship with application rates of nitrogen fertilizer, while it was a negative linear relationship in band 5. Mean reflectance of wavelengths in bands 1, 2, 3, 5, 11, and 15 was significantly correlated with application rates. Reflectance of these six wavelengths changed nonlinearly after transplanting and could be used in combination to distinguish rice plants subjected to different nitrogen application rates. From the correlation analyses, there are a variety of correlation coefficients for spectral reflectance to leaf nitrogen content in the range of 350-2400 nm. Reflectance of most wavelengths exhibited an inverse correlation with leaf nitrogen content, with the largest negative value (r = -0.581) located at about 1376 nm. Changes in reflectance at 1376 nm to leaf nitrogen content during the growing period were closely related and were best fitted to a nonlinear function. This relationship may be used to estimate and to monitor nitrogen content of rice leaves during rice growth. Reflectance of red light minimum and near-infrared peak and leaf nitrogen content were correlated nonlinearly.
12805756	Field experiments were conducted at a farmers" plot adjacent to the Regional Research Station, red and laterite zone, Sub-center Sekhampur (Birbhum district) of West Bengal, India, situated 23 degrees 24' N latitude, 87 degrees 24' E longitude, to study the effect of different bio- and organic sources of nutrients instead of total fertilizer N in terms of crop productivity in the sequence and building up of soil fertility. During the wet seasons of 1997 and 1998, 12 combinations of bio- and organic sources (crop residues, well decomposed cow dung, dhanicha as green manure) were substituted for 25-50% of N fertilizer applied on transplanted rice (Cv. IR 36). Subsequently, during the winters of 1997-1998 and 1998-1999, leguminous pulse crops like lentil (Lens culinaris [L.] Medic.), gram (Cicer arietinum L.) and lathyrus (Lathyrus sativus L.) were grown with and without inoculation of Rhizobium. Results revealed that the application of inorganic N in combination with organic sources exhibited a significant increase in rice yield (3.60-3.84 t ha(-1)) compared to the yield from sole application of N (3.19-3.26 t ha(-1)). The study showed that about 25% of total applied N was saved without significant yield reduction with simultaneous improvement of soil physical properties (pH, organic matter, available N, P, K, and CEC). Seed yield of pulses (lentil, gram, and lathyrus) were more pronounced in the treatment inoculated with Rhizobium, with a saving of 42.6-48.4 kg N ha(-1). Therefore, the results suggest that the combined application of inorganic and organic N sources in a 75:25 ratio is a superior N-management practice with regards to crop yields as well as improvement of soil fertility.
12806034	The Gulf Coast contains some of the most important shorebird habitats in North America. This area encompasses a diverse mixture of estuarine and barrier island habitats with varying amounts of freshwater swamps and marshes, bottomland hardwood forests, and coastal prairie that has been largely altered for rice and crawfish production, temporary ponds, and river floodplain habitat. For the purposes of this review, discussion is confined to general patterns of shorebird abundance, distribution, and macro- and microhabitat use in natural coastal, estuarine, and barrier island habitats on the Gulf of Mexico Coast. The following geographic regions are considered: Northwestern Gulf (Rio Grande to Louisiana-Mississippi border), Northeastern Gulf (Mississippi to Florida Keys), and Mexico (Rio Grande to Cabo Catoche [Yucatan Strait]). Wintering and migrating shorebirds are most abundant along the Gulf Coast in Texas and Tamaulipas, particularly the Laguna Madre ecosystem. Other important areas are the Southwest Coast region of Florida and the area between Laguna Terminos and Puerto Progresso in Mexico. In general, relative abundances of shorebirds increase from north to south, and decrease south of the Tropic of Cancer (23 degrees 27' N). Based on bimonthly maximum counts within 5 latitudinal bands, the region between 25-30 degrees N is used most heavily by wintering and spring migrating birds. Non-vegetated coastal wetland habitats associated with bays, inlets and lagoons, particularly tidal flats, and sandy beaches are the habitats that appear to be favored by wintering and migrating shorebirds. In general, these habitats tend to occur as habitat complexes that allow for movement between them in relation to tidal flooding of bay-shore habitats. This relationship is particularly important to Piping Plover and may be important to others. Although vegetated habitats are used by some species, they do not appear to attract large numbers of birds. This habitat is most widespread between the Texas-Louisiana border and the Florida Panhandle region, but it has not been studied extensively. Shorebird abundance and habitat use in this area need to be addressed.
1280610	A dodecapeptide of A-gliadin, which shares amino acid homologies with the E1b protein of adenovirus 12, was used to produce murine monoclonal antibodies. Five monoclonal antibodies were produced and were screened by enzyme linked immunosorbant assay, immunodot assay, and immunoblotting. The antibodies were tested against whole wheat gliadin and its alpha, beta, gamma, and omega subfractions, and the prolamins of rye, barley, oats, maize, millet, rice, and sorghum. Four of the five antibodies cross reacted with one or more of the coeliac non-toxic cereals--maize, millet, sorghum, and rice. The monoclonal antibody that did not cross react with these non-toxic cereals, did not recognize Frazer's fraction III, a peptic-tryptic digest of wheat gluten which is known to be toxic. The results suggest that the A-gliadin dodecapeptide shares a region of homology with cereals that do not exacerbate coeliac disease. This study does not support the hypothesis that prior infection with adenovirus 12 is a precipitating factor in coeliac disease.
12806106	The Okchon black shale, which is part of the Guryongsan Formation or the Changri Formation of Cambro-Ordovician age in Korea provides a typical example of natural geological materials enriched with potentially toxic elements such as U, V, Mo, As, Se, Cd, and Zn. In this study, the Dukpyung and the Chubu areas were selected to investigate the migration and enrichment of As and other toxic elements in soils and crop plants in areas covered with black shale. Rock and soil samples digested in 4-acid solution (HCl+HNO3+HF+HClO4) were analyzed for As and other heavy metals by ICP-AES and ICP-MS, and plant samples by INAA. Mean concentration of As in Okchon black shale is higher than those of both world average values of shale and black shale. Especially high concentration of 23.2 mg As kg(-1) is found in black shale from the Dukpyung area. Mean concentration of As is highly elevated in agricultural soils from the Dukpyung (28.2 mg kg(-1)) and the Chubu areas (32.6 mg kg(-1)). As is highly elevated in rice leaves from the Dukpyung (1.14 mg kg(-1)) and the Chubu areas (1.35 mg kg(-1)). The biological absorption coefficient (BAC) of As in plant species decreases in the order of rice leaves > corn leaves > red pepper = soybean leaves = sesame leaves > corn stalks > corn grains. This indicates that leafy plants tend to accumulate As from soil to a greater degree than cereal products such as grains.
12806786	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings were subjected to hypoxic pretreatment (H-PT; incubated in 5% O2 atmosphere) for various lengths of time followed by an anoxic stress. Anoxia tolerance of rice roots was improved with increasing duration of H-PT, but longer H-PT than 12 h gave no additional improvement. Concentrations of ATP and ethanol, and activities of pyruvate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.1) and alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1) in the roots were increased by H-PT, and the times and patterns of increasing in these concentrations and activities were similar to those of increasing in the anoxia tolerance. These results suggest that the H-PT may increase anoxia tolerance due to maintenance of ATP levels with rapid induction of ethanolic fermentation, and hypoxic acclimation may occur within 12 h.
12806788	Ionic and osmotic effects of salinity on the ultrastructure of chloroplasts in salt-treated rice seedlings were investigated. After rice seedlings were grown in hydroponic culture for three weeks, they were treated with NaCl and polyethylene glycol (PEG) 4000 both at a water potential of -1.0 MPa for 3 days. The most notable difference in ultrastructural change between NaCl and PEG treatment was observed in the damage in chloroplast membranes. NaCl induced swelling of thylakoids and caused only a slight destruction of the chloroplast envelope. PEG caused severe destruction of the chloroplast envelope compared with NaCl, however thylakoids did not swell. Our observations suggested that in salt-treated rice plants, the ionic effects induced swelling of thylakoids and the osmotic effects caused the destruction of chloroplast envelope.
12806967	In this study, the effects of a barley diet containing high dietary fiber on the onset and development of diabetes mellitus in spontaneously diabetic rats was investigated by comparing with a rice diet containing low dietary fiber and an alpha-corn starch diet containing very low dietary fiber. 30 male Goto-Kakizaki (GK) strain rats (8 weeks of age) were randomly assigned to 3 groups; high barley (HB) group on a barley diet (dietary fiber intake, 1.79 g/day/rat), rice (R) group on a rice diet (dietary fiber intake, 0.46 g/day/rat), and alpha-corn starch (CS) group on an alpha-corn starch diet (dietary fiber intake, 0.24 g/day/rat). The carbohydrate (70%), fat (10%), and protein (20%) contents of these 3 diets were equal, and the rats were pair-fed each diet for 3 months. Feeding for 3 months showed that fasting plasma glucose level in the HB group was significantly lower than in the R and CS groups; the glucose tolerance in the HB group was markedly improved. Moreover, the plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the HB group were significantly lower than those of the R and CS groups. Our findings demonstrated that barley enabled glycemic control and improved glucose tolerance compared with rice or alpha-corn starch.
12807788	Grass genomes differ greatly in chromosome number, ploidy level, and size. Despite these differences, very good conservation of the marker order (collinearity) was found at the genetic map level between the different grass genomes. Collinearity is particularly good between rice chromosome 1 and the group 3 chromosomes in the Triticeae. We have used this collinearity to saturate the leaf rust resistance locus Rph7 on chromosome 3HS in barley with ESTs originating from rice chromosome 1S. Chromosome walking allowed the establishment of a contig of 212 kb spanning the Rph7 resistance gene. Sequencing of the contig showed an average gene density of one gene/20 kb with islands of higher density. Comparison with the orthologous rice sequence revealed the complete conservation of five members of the HGA gene family whereas intergenic regions differ greatly in size and composition. In rice, the five genes are closely associated whereas in barley intergenic regions are >38-fold larger. The size difference is due mainly to the presence of six additional genes as well as noncoding low-copy sequences. Our data suggest that a major rearrangement occurred in this region since the Triticeae and rice lineage diverged.
12807839	To assess the relation between selected carbohydrate foods, dietary glycaemic load and glycaemic index, and the risk of non-fatal acute myocardial infarction in a population with a high intake of refined carbohydrates. Hospital based case-control study conducted in Milan, Italy, between 1995 and 1999. 433 non-diabetic subjects with a first episode of non-fatal acute myocardial infarction, and 448 controls admitted to hospital for a wide spectrum of acute conditions unrelated to known or potential risk factors for acute myocardial infarction. Information was collected by interviewer administered questionnaires. Multivariate odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were obtained by multiple logistic regression models. Compared with patients in the lowest tertile of intake, the multivariate OR for those in the highest tertile was 1.00 for bread, 1.27 for pasta and rice, 1.38 for soups, 0.78 for potatoes, 0.97 for desserts, and 1.00 for sugar. The OR for the highest tertile of score was 1.08 for glycaemic load and 1.38 for glycaemic index. None of the estimates was significant. A significant association with acute myocardial infarction risk was found for glycaemic index in patients aged > or = 60 years (OR 1.81, 95% CI 1.07 to 3.07 for the highest tertile of score compared with the lowest) and in those with a body mass index > or = 25 kg/m2 (OR 2.02, 95% CI 1.21 to 3.34). In this Italian population high glycaemic load and glycaemic index were not strongly associated with acute myocardial infarction risk, but slightly increased odds ratios were observed for glycaemic index in elderly people and in association with overweight.
12809715	Since the growth inhibitor momilactone B was found recently in root exudates of rice (Oryza sativa L.), 3-day-old rice seedlings were transferred to hydroponic culture and the level of momilactone B released into the environment from the seedlings was measured. At day 15 after transfer, the level of momilactone B in the culture solution was 1.8 nmol per seedling compared with endogenous levels of 0.32 and 0.63 nmol per root and shoot, respectively, suggesting that rice seedlings actively releases momilactone B into the culture solution. This release must occur from the roots because only rice roots were immersed in the culture solution. Momilactone B inhibited the growth of ten cress (Lepidium sativum L.) seedlings at concentrations greater than 3 microM. Ten rice seedlings were incubated with ten cress seeds in a Petri dish containing 1 ml of medium, the medium contained 18 nmol of momilactone B, which came to 18 microM. This level of momilactone B was enough to reveal growth inhibition of the cress seedlings. Release level of momilactone B and its effectiveness as a growth inhibitor suggest that it may play an important role in rice allelopathy.
12810403	The aim of this study was to describe the use of nutrition and related claims on packaged food for sale in Australia and measure the compliance of such claims with regulations governing their use. A survey was conducted of the labelling of 6662 products in 40 different food categories on sale in New South Wales in 2001. Levels of compliance were assessed by comparing the claims on the label and data in the nutrition information panel with requirements of the Foods Standards Code and the Code of Practice on Nutrient Claims. Half of the products (51.3%) carried some type of nutrition related claim and 36.2% made at least one nutrient claim, with an average of 1.2 nutrition related claims on every food product. The foods with the highest use of nutrient claims were sports drinks, breakfast cereals, meat substitutes, pretzels and rice cakes, muesli bars and yoghurt. The most common nutrient claims were for fat, cholesterol, vitamins, minerals, and sugar. More than 20% of products carried claims related to additives. Many nutrient claims (12.9%) did not comply with current regulations, especially those in the voluntary Code of Practice. Adoption of mandatory requirements for all claims within the Food Standards Code may improve the levels of compliance. Implications for the regulation of nutrition and related claims are discussed. The impact of nutrition claims on consumer purchasing and consumption behaviour deserves further study.
12811047	The fresh water snail, Hippeutis(Helicorbis) cantori, caught from the rice paddies in Namyangju-gun, Gyeonggi-do, was found to be a new second intermediate host of E. cinetorchis in Korea. The metacercariae were found from 89(76.7 %) out of 116 snails examined and the average metacercarial burden was 4.7 per infected snails. Some developmental characteristics of E. cinetorchis were observed after experimental infection of the metacercariae to rats and mice.
12812057	Plasmid pBLGC containing chitinase gene from Phaseolus limensis and beta-1,3-glucanase gene from Nicotiana tabacum was bombarded into the restorer line "Nan29" of Dian-type hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) from Yunnan province of South-west China. 93 regenerants were obtained from the calli that were resistant to G418 (100 to 150 mg/L) on NB medium. Using beta-1,3 glucanase gene as the probe, 17 of the regenerants were identified to be transgenic lines by dot blotting and the foreign genes construction were integrated into the genomes of T1 lines by Southern blotting hybridization. Two foreign genes were inherited stably to T4 generation according to PCR results of the lines. The resistance to rice blast of six transgenic lines were evaluated by inoculating four violent biological races of Magnaporthe grisea from Yunnan province and inducing the disease in the field. The results indicated that the resistance to rice blast of transgenic lines were enhanced to varying degrees compared with the receptor line and the transgenic lines could be used in rice blast resistant breeding.
12812058	By using the whole genome sequences and EST data from the indica rice cultivar 93-11, a detailed relative analysis is made of the effect of some impact factors on synonymous codon usage. The results showed that the gene expression level assessed by mRNA abundance is positive relative to the "codon adaptation index" (CAI, 0.227**), and "codon preference parameter" (CPP, 0.145**), but negative relative to "effective number of codons" (ENC, -0.147**), indicating that genes with higher expression showed more significant variation in codon usage. There are significant negative correlations between gene length and CAI, CPP (r = -0.413** and -0.480** respectively), but a positive correlation between gene length and ENC(r = 0.210**), which suggested a tendency of shorter genes to higher expression of the transcriptional activity in 93-11. From the results that a higher negative correlation between GC content and ENC(r = -0.740**), but higher positive correlations between GC content and CAI, CPP (r = 0.877** and 0.832**, respectively), we can concluded that the GC content in coding region gave far more contribution to codon usage bias than that mRNA abundance and gene length. Four kinds of bases showed a three-period distribution in the translation initiation region, the bias at the first codon sites, which located +4, and +6, in the downstream of ATG being the largest. That suggested that there was a strong action of natural selection on these specific positions in the 93-11 genome. In this paper twenty-five codons defined firstly as "optimal codons" in 93-11 may provide some more useful information for rice gene-transformation.
12812062	Two specific fragments OPJ18-1000 and OPJ18-1400 were obtained from mitochondrial DNAs of two rice varieties, II-32 and II you 949, by RAPD analysis. The sequenced lengths of the two differential fragments were 1068 bp and 1481 bp, respectively. The result of Southern hybridization demonstrated that the differential fragments were true. When hybridizing with II-32A, II-32B and II you 949 by OPJ18-1000 probe, we found OPJ18-1000 which had effects on rice II-32A and II you 949 cytoplasmic male sterility in transcription had not the same effects on II-32B. Though RNA dot hybridization was negative, OPJ18-1400 had a conservative domain of seven base pairs DNA sequence: 5'-TTCCCTC-3', which was homologous recombination hotspot domain in atp6 gene. It was reported that 5'-TTCCCTC-3' induced the formation of chimeric gene in mitochondrial DNA and further caused rice male sterility. As a result, the two fragments are new mitochondrial DNA fragments relevant to rice cytoplasm male sterility by homologous analysis and DNA, RNA hybridization.
12812075	It has been a long haul but photoperiod- and thermo-sensitive genic male sterile (PTGMS) rice has not been freely used in hybrid rice production because there are two perplexing problems corresponding to the critical sterility temperature point (CSTP): the uncertainty of the CSTP segregating pattern and the instability of CSTP for every originally useful line. N5088S, the most widely commercialized japonica-type PTGMS line in China, also saw that its CSTP variants have been isolated but with all other agronomic characteristics unchanged. In this report we analyzed the genetic basis of CSTP, by employing the iterated expectation and conditional maximization (IECM) algorithm on four tiller-splitting-formed sets of seven generations from N5088S and its CSTP-variant H5088S, each set treated with one temperature regime. The main results indicated that there are two dominant major genes and polygene, as well as their respective epistasis conditioning the CSTP in the 23.5 degrees C regime. Based on the results obtained, the strategy for breeding of PTGMS lines with stable low CSTP was outlined.
12812078	The plant hormone ethylene is not only responsible for the initiation of fruit ripening, senescence and dormancy but also for regulating many other plant developmental processes, such as seed germination, root initiation, growth, floral differentiation, sex differentiation and responding to environment stresses. One of the rate-limiting steps for ethylene biosynthesizing in plant is catalyzed by 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) oxidase. Understanding of ethylene expressive pattern in plant is an entrance to understand the roles of ethylene on plant. In this paper, two degenerate oligonucleotide primers were designed, coding for two conservative amino acid regions in ACC oxidase protein family, the sequences of the two primers were TAGAGCTCGATGC[TA]TG [CT]GA[GA]AA[AC]TGGGG and CGTCTAGAGCTTC[GA]AATCTTGGCTCCTT respectively. A PCR amplification was performed on sugarcane (Saccharum L. Hybrid cv. ROC16) DNA template, and produced a fragment of 940 bp. By using the program of BLAST on NCBI GenBank database, the sequence presented a very high match with the ACC oxidase genes from other plants, 63 searched out sequences were all ACC oxidase genes. After alignment on PCgene program, the identities of the cloned fragment with ACC oxidase genes from rice and bamboo were both reaching about 88%. So we can concluded that the cloned sequence was a member of ACC oxidase genes fragment from sugarcane. The sequence has been submitted to the GenBank database, the accession number is AF442821. According to the ACC oxidase protein family, a 'intron' of 103 bp was excluded and the sequence coded 279 amino acids, which spanned 88% of the putative whole sequence in length. Alignment and phylogenetic analysis of the amino acid sequence deduced from this fragment and the ACC oxidase sequences of other plants retrieved from GenBank were carried out by using PCgene program. The putative amino acid sequence shared a homology of 86% with the ACC oxidases of bamboo and rice, 74.6% with banana, 70% with tomato and potato and 68% with melon and carnation, which showed that the homology of sugarcane ACC oxidase with monocot was higher than with dicot. The results of phylogenetic analysis showed that ACC oxidase from sugarcane and ACC oxidases from rice clustered together firstly, and then came those from banana, ACC oxidases of dicot from potato, tomato, petunia, melon, Arabidopsis thaliana and carnation came subsequently. It indicated that sugarcane ACC oxidase had a closer phylogenetic affinities to the monocot ACC oxidase sequences than to the dicot ACC oxidases sequences. The clustering results of ACC oxidase molecules accorded with morphological classification system.
12812083	This paper begins with the overthrow of the concept of combining ability in crossbreeding by the concept of heritability. The reason is that general combining ability changes with the number and kind of pure strains in the foundation stock and hence special combining ability changes also, so that work with different kinds of pure strains in the foundation stock cannot be compared. Hence combining ability is useless as a parameter to predict the amount of heterosis expected in the next generation. On the other hand, since each cross has a separate heritability, it can be applied to a cross population just as successfully as in purebreeding. Since the same concept holds in both cases, resort to any other concept would be superfluous. That's why combining ability must be rejected. Another reason (not given in the full text) is, an infinite number of pure strains would be required in the foundation stock for its results to be comparable with those of the heritability theory, which disposes of its utility altogether. The main content of the thesis is then the centennial enigma of heterosis can be resolved by Descarte's theoretic method of deduction. Accordingly we start from the definition of heterosis. [formula: see text] where H is heterosis, F1 is the first generation offspring, MP is the mean of the parents or midparent, and from the use of a binomial random variable and its extension to the multinomial case derive the basic relations of heterosis with its components. Starting with second degree statistics, we obtain [formula: see text] where V and cov stand for variance and covariance. The equations of heterosis are [formula: see text] where N is number of genes controlling a trait, a = (Pi - Pj)/2, d is deviation from midparent, while the variance components are all indicated by their names under the respective terms. It turns out that all these can be easily computed from the data so that the problem becomes a simple one which any college student may solve. In other words, the right answers are found when the right questions are asked. Who had ever shown that the heritability principle is inapplicable in crossbreeding, e.g., in a crossing of two pure strains? From this cue arose the realization that the F1 of a cross of two pure strains must also be a Mendelian population, with p and q both equal to 1/2 which simplifies the algebra outright. This Heritability Theory of Heterosis, or HTH in capital letters, rests on 2 initial arguments: 1) Since 0.5 + 0.5 = 1, crossing two pure strains gives a population which is only a special case of pure-breeding, therefore a heritability coefficient must exist for the F1; 2) Our problem reduces to that of finding that coefficient; the answer is given by the additive component divided by VF1, i.e., (1/2) Na2/VF1. which is readily found from the solution of the heterosis equations. Thus the eternal enigma of heterosis is resolved! This happened at the end of the 20th century. We now come to the second point of the discovery, the new genetic parameter crossheritability which will rise in size with the increase of the number of times it's used and form the link between breeding and evolution. The advent of the Age of Evolution Engineering in the 21st century marks a totally new era, showing that artificial will ultimately supercede natural selection, with the long span of time element eliminated. For agriculture at least, it means there is no limit to the increase of food supply by the new method, with the concentration of desirable genes by hybridization in place of the old theory of their fixation. Genetic gain is achieved through artificial selection, with an 80% saving of time, labor and cost by adoption of the new method. Applied to a further increase in all kinds of agricultural products including hybrid rice, it means that a huge escalation, in fact a New Green Revolution, on a much larger scale than that of any such before, is in view, provided it is adopted in our research and educational institutions as early as possible, ere its spread elsewhere. The possibilities from the evolution point of view can only be pictured by science fiction.
12812090	It is meaningful to study the genetics of the traits associated with photosynthesis such as leaf chlorophyll and H2O2 contents for high yield breeding in rice. A mapping population of 98 BC1F9 lines (backcross Inbred Lines, BIL), derived from a backcross of Nipponbare (japonica)/Kasalath(indica)//Nipponbare by the single-seed-descent methods, was employed to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlying such rice traits as leaf chlorophyll and H2O2 contents. Five and two QTLs were detected for leaf Chlorophyll and H2O2 content variation, respectively. Among the QTLs detected, q-Chl1 on chromosome 1 accounted for 22% variation for leaf chlorophyll content variation. The alleles from Nipponbare increased stature at the locus; On the other hand, q-H2O2(1) which associated with H2O2 content was also located on the same region as q-Chl1. The alleles from Nipponbare decreased stature at this locus. The 2 traits have the 2 QTL sharing the same chromosome locations, which was located between C86 and C813 on chromosome 1. Epistasis analysis showed QTL with interaction distributed on chromosome 2, 6, 11 and 12. However, no QTL interacted with q-Chl1 or q-H2O2(1) was detected. It can be deduced that alleles from Nipponbare at the region between C86 and C813 on chromosome 1 increases leaf chlorophyll content and decreases H2O2 content at the mean time with significant additive effect but little epistasis.
12812091	Ninety-eight backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a subspecific cross of Nipponbare (japonica)/Kasalath (indica)//Nipponbare and its genetic linkage map were used to identify quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling rice appearance quality traits such as grain length (GL), grain width (GW), length-width ratio (LWR), percentage of grains with chalkiness (PGWC), square of chalky endosperm (SCE), degree of endosperm chalkiness (DEC) and grain endosperm transparency (GET) by composite interval mapping over two years. A total of 33 QTLs were identified to be significant in at least one year for seven traits and the number of QTL for each trait ranged from four to seven, showing that appearance quality of rice grains were controlled by multigenes. The phenotypic variation explained by individual QTLs ranged from 6.2% to 15.2% for GL, 8.3% to 32.5% for GW, 6.8% to 19.8% for LWR, 6.4% to 28.5% for PGWC, 6.1% to 16.9% for SCE, 9.3% to 17.2% for DEC, and 5.6% to 25.2% for GET. The distribution of QTL were characterized by clustering with the intervals of C1488-C563 on chromosome 3, R830-R3166 and R1436-R2289 on chromosome 5, R2147-R2171 on chromosome 6 each harboring over 3 QTLs. The QTL-by-environment interactions were observed by comparing QTL mapping of the same population grown in 2 consecutive years, but were trait dependent. The QTL for GL and LWR were rather stable across years while that for PGWC, SCE and DEC were very sensitive to environments.
12813860	The absorption rate of cadmium (Cd) in the digestive organs is reported to be 0.5-8% in Friberg's textbook. This value was obtained from experimental studies. The object of the present study is to obtain the value from the Cd intake amount by ingestion, the Cd absorption amount by respiration and smoking, and the total Cd absorption amount calculated from the Cd accumulation amount in organs reported in articles including not only experimental but also epidemiologic studies conducted in Japan. The oral intake amounts of Cd in Japan were obtained from a published article to be 48 micrograms/day for males in the 1970s. The total Cd absorption amount that was calculated from the Cd accumulation amount in organs of 223 male subjects autopsied following sudden death was found to be 6.8 micrograms/day for male adults in the 1970s. The Cd exposure before the 1970s reflected the Cd absorption amount calculated from the Cd accumulation amount in the 1970s. The Cd absorption amount by respiration and smoking for males in the 1960s was 1.0 microgram/day, and the difference of 5.8 micrograms/day between the above two corresponds to the Cd absorption amount in digestive organs before the 1970s. The rice intake amount for Japanese in 1955-1965 was reported to be about 1.4 times as much as that in 1975. Therefore the Cd absorption rate in digestive organs was estimated to be about 10% from these values, assuming that most of the change in Cd intake from food is derived from the amount of rice eaten in Japan. This value is somewhat greater than the values published in the literature.
12815033	A novel SET-domain-containing gene OsSET1 was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.). Its deduced protein consists of 895 amino acids. OsSET1 has a high degree of structure similarity to other SET-domain-containing genes such as CLF in higher plants and E(z) in animals. RT-PCR showed that the gene expresses throughout the entire plant. A transient expression assay in onion epidermis revealed that the OsSET1 protein is localized in nuclei. Over-expression of the SET domain of OsSET1 in Arabidopsis resulted in altered shoot development at seedling stages.
12815035	A cDNA fragment was cloned from rice immature seeds by the RT-PCR method. The deduced amino acid sequence of the cDNA showed a high degree of identity with UDP-d-glucuronic acid decarboxylase (UXS) from other plants and was most similar to the soluble UXS from Arabidopsis. The recombinant protein, expressed in an Escherichia coli system, catalysed the conversion of UDP-d-glucuronic acid to UDP-d-xylose, confirming that the gene encoded UXS. The uxs gene was expressed in mature, harvested rice seeds as well as in immature seeds 14 d post-anthesis, suggesting that the uxs gene is necessary at the beginning of the germination period. This is the first report of the cloning of the uxs gene from monocots.
12818659	Methionine, lysine and threonine are essential amino acids required in the diets of non-ruminant animals. Major crops, such as corn, soybean and rice, are low in one or more of these amino acids. Currently, these amino acids are supplemented to animal feed to allow optimal growth--a costly process for farmers and consumer, therefore there is a great deal of interest in increasing essential amino acids in crops. The metabolism of methionine in plants is linked to the regulation of the aspartate pathway and is important for plant growth. In recent years, several key steps of this pathway have been identified at the molecular level, enabling us to initiate transgenic approaches to engineer the methionine content of plants.
12818684	The anti-HIV activity of (+/-)-cis-4,5-dihydroxy-1,2-dithiane 1,1-dioxide [(+/-)-cis-1,1-dioxo-[1,2]-dithiane-4,5-diol, NSC-624151] and its attack on the zinc finger domain of the HIV-1 nucleocapsid p7 (NCp7) protein has been established [Rice, W. G.; Baker, D. C.; Schaeffer, C. A.; Graham, L.; Bu, M.; Terpening, S.; Clanton, D.; Schultz, R.; Bader, J. P.; Buckheit, R. W.; Field, L.; Singh, P. K. Turpin, J. A. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 1997, 41, 419]. In order to determine which enantiomer of NSC-624151 is the more active component, the compound was resolved via its bis-'Mosher ester', which was prepared via its reaction with two equiv of (-)-(R)-alpha-methoxy-alpha-(trifluoromethyl)phenylacetyl chloride. The diastereoisomeric esters were separated, and each ester was hydrolyzed to yield enantiomers with (D)(21) +151 degrees (c 0.5, MeOH) and (D)(21) -146 degrees (c 0.5, MeOH). Single-crystal X-ray analysis of the (-)-bis-'Mosher ester' showed that the (-)-enantiomer is the (4S, 5R)-compound. The (-)-enantiomer (NSC 693195) was ca. twice as active (EC(50) 8.8+/-0.2 microM) as its (+)-counterpart (NSC 693194) (EC(50) 16.2+/-2.4 microM) in the XTT assay against HIV-1. All three compounds were found to be approximately equally effective in promoting Zn ejection from the NCp7 zinc finger. As the more anti-HIV active enantiomer is only slightly more active than the racemic form, it appears to offer no advantages over the racemic form.
1282087	Rice mitochondrial DNA contains an intact copy and a pseudogene copy of a apocytochrome b gene (cob-1 and cob-2, respectively). Using primer extension and capping analyses, the transcriptional start site has been mapped; an 11-base motif at the transcription start site closely matches the consensus promoter motifs proposed for maize, wheat and soybean mitochondrial genes. Although both copies are identical in the 5' upstream region and through most of the coding region, only cob-1-specific mRNA is detected on RNA gel-blots. Run-on transcription analysis indicates, however, that both cob-1 and cob-2 mRNAs are synthesized in vivo but less cob-2 is accumulated. At its mapped 3' terminus the cob-1 transcript possesses a sequence that could fold into a double stem-loop structure. The possible roles of a double stem-loop structure in mitochondrial gene expression are discussed.
1282235	A comparison of the nucleotide sequences from genomic DNA and cDNA of the ndhB gene from maize chloroplasts shows that the ndhB transcript is edited by C-to-U transitions at six positions which appear to exist as editing sites also in the chloroplast ndhB genes from rice and tobacco but not from liverwort. In order to identify possible sequence determinants necessary for editing, the sequences surrounding the newly identified ndhB and previously identified ndhA editing sites were compared with each other and with editing sites observed in plant mitochondrial transcripts. Among the chloroplast editing sites two closely positioned ndhB sites show similarity by sharing a common octanucleotide. The existence of the identical octanucleotide in the ndhJ gene whose transcript is not edited at the respective position, shows, however, that this octanucleotide is not sufficient to elicit the editing process. On the other hand, several of the chloroplast editing sites show sequence similarities with certain sets of consensus sequences reported earlier for editing sites of plant mitochondria. This supports the view that the editing processes of both plant organelles share common components and/or mechanistic steps and that the consensus sequences are part of the determinants necessary for editing.
12822946	The effect of acetic acid on the dissolution of proteins in rice was studied to elucidate the mechanism for the textural change induced by the acid by chemical and SDS-PAGE analyses of the rice proteins in the soaking solution. More proteins were extracted with 0.2 M acetic acid (pH 2.7) than with water (pH 6.8). The effect of acetic acid on the protein dissolution increased with increasing temperature. Immunoblotting confirmed that, when rice was soaked in acetic acid, glutelin was dissolved into the soaking solution and degraded by aspartic proteinase. Aspartic proteinase degraded glutelin much more than it did albumin and globulin. It was found that the combined amount of albumin and globulin dissolved into the acetic acid solution was much larger than that of glutelin, despite the smaller amounts present of albumin and globulin than of glutelin. Metal ions were extracted more with acetic acid than with water. In addition, carboxypeptidase was activated under the acidic condition and resulted in an increase in the amount of free amino acids. The main effect of acetic acid on the dissolution of rice proteins was enhancement of the solubility of albumin, globulin, and glutelin, the effect of proteases being minor.
12822948	Starch retrogradation is the main cause of quality deterioration of starch-containing foods during storage. The current work investigated the effect of partial beta-amylolysis on the retrogradation of rice starch and the potential of beta-amylase in preparing rice products with extended shelf life. Isolated amylopectin, whole rice starch, and rice flour from a regular rice cultivar were partially hydrolyzed by either reagent-grade or food-grade beta-amylase. The degree of beta-amylolysis was expressed as average external chain length () for isolated amylopectin or the degree of hydrolysis (%) for other starch systems. Pulsed nuclear magnetic resonance was used to monitor starch retrogradation during storage at 4 degrees C. The results indicated that partial beta-amylolysis using reagent-grade beta-amylase retarded amylopectin retrogradation by shortening the of amylopectin. When was below DP 11.6, the amylopectin retrogradation was essentially inhibited. Partial beta-amylolysis had a similar effect on the amylopectin retrogradation in the whole starch system. The maltose produced in beta-amylolysis might slightly attenuate the retrogradation-retarding effect of partial beta-amylolysis. The effect of food-grade beta-amylase on starch retrogradation was also evident, although less effective than that of reagent-grade beta-amylase. The retrogradation-retarding effect of food-grade beta-amylase was also demonstrated in rice flour system, indicating a potential method for controlling the starch retrogradation of rice products.
12822955	The alkylresorcinol (AR) content of 8 commonly consumed cereals, 125 Triticum cultivars, milling fractions of wheat and rye, bread, and other cereal products was analyzed. ARs were found in wheat (489-1429 microgram/g), rye (720-761 microgram/g), triticale (439-647 microgram/g), and barley (42-51 microgram/g), but not in rice, oats, maize, sorghum, or millet. One durum wheat variety was found to have an exceptionally low level of ARs (54 microgram/g) compared to other durum wheat varieties (589-751 microgram/g) and Triticumspecies analyzed. The AR content of milling fractions closely followed the ash content and could be used as a marker of the presence of bran in flour. Using hot 1-propanol extraction, all ARs could be extracted from bread, contrary to previous studies which suggested that ARs were destroyed during baking. Cereal products varied greatly in AR content, with those containing wheat bran or whole rye having the highest content.
12824907	Although Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is considered a key risk factor for atrophic gastritis, along with other environmental factors, it is still unclear which factor is involved in the development of atrophic gastritis among H. pylori-infected subjects. In the present cross-sectional study, therefore, we analyzed various dietary factors in relation to the presence of atrophic gastritis among H. pylori-infected subjects who participated in a health check-up program in a town in northeastern Japan. One thousand and seventy-one subjects (362 males and 709 females) who provided both self-administered validated food frequency questionnaires and blood samples were the basis for the study, and all of them were serologically positive for H. pylori immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody. Among them, 663 (223 males and 440 females) were diagnosed as having atrophic gastritis on the basis of serum pepsinogen levels. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were calculated based on tertile categories of subjects without atrophic gastritis, using logistic regression analysis. Among females, high consumptions of rice (OR = 1.6, 95% CI: 1.1-2.3), cod roe (OR = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.0-2.2) and cuttlefish (OR = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.0-2.3) were associated with a moderately increased risk of atrophic gastritis after adjustment for age (P for trend = 0.02 for these items). Among males, high consumptions of rice and miso soup showed a tendency toward an increased risk (P for trend = 0.12 and 0.13, respectively). Vegetables and fruits showed no association among either males or females. From these results, it is suggested that the dietary habits of consumers of traditional Japanese foods may play a role in the development of atrophic gastritis after H. pylori infection.
12825673	The effects of fipronil and lambda-cyhalothrin, applied at rates labeled for control of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus, on 3 nontarget indigenous insect species in Arkansas rice are described. Three replicates of untreated control checks and fipronil- and lambda-cyhalothrin-treated plots containing 3 sentinel cages each were performed. Ten 4th-stage larvae of Anopheles quadrimaculatus, 10 adult Tropisternus lateralis, or 10 adult Notonecta indica were placed within individual cages in small rice plots treated with ICON 6.2 FS (fipronil) at 0.025 lb active ingredient (AI)/acre (0.028 kg/ha) or KARATEZ 2.08 CS (lambda-cyhalothrin) at 0.03 lb AI/acre (0.033 kg/ha) applied over vegetation and water with a single-boom sprayer. At 24 h after treatment in fipronil plots, significantly higher control of An. quadrimaculatus and T. lateralis (69 and 48% control, respectively) was achieved, compared to N. indica (18%). In lambda-cyhalothrin plots 24 h after treatment, 100% reductions of both T. lateralis and N. indica were highly significant (P < 0.05) from the lower level of control in An. quadrimaculatus (10%). At 48 h after treatment, no significant, differences existed between all species within fipronil plots, with An. quadrimaculatus, T. lateralis, and N. indica obtaining 41, 10, and 7% control, respectively. Significantly higher (P < 0.05) control was obtained in lambda-cyhalothrin plots 48 h after treatment, with 93 and 53% control of T. lateralis and N. indica, respectively, compared to 7% control of An. quadrimaculatus. A marked difference in susceptibility was found between selected nontarget organisms used in this study. When using lambda-cyhalothrin to control adult L. oryzophilus, populations of nontarget beneficial insects, such as T. lateralis and N. indica, could be adversely affected, whereas nontarget pestilent species, such as An. quadrimaculatus, could proliferate. Fipronil achieved higher percentages of control against An. quadrimaculatus, compared to lambda-cyhalothrin, and was less harmful to both nontarget predators.
12825688	A family 19 chitinase (OsChia1c, class I) from rice, Oryza sativa L., and its chitin-binding domain-truncated mutant (OsChia1c deltaCBD, class II) were produced by the Pichia expression system, and the hydrolytic mechanism toward N-acetylglucosamine hexasaccharide [(GlcNAc)6] was investigated by HPLC analysis of the reaction products. The profile of the time-course of (GlcNAc)6 degradation obtained by OsChia1c was identical to that obtained by OsChia1c deltaCBD, indicating that the chitin-binding domain does not significantly participate in oligosaccharide hydrolysis. From the theoretical analysis of the reaction time-course of OsChia1c deltaCBD, the free energy changes of sugar residue binding were estimated to be -0.4, -4.7, +3.4, -0.5, -2.3, and -1.0 kcal/mol for the individual subsites of (-3), (-2), (-1), (+1), (+2), and (+3), respectively. The hexasaccharide substrate appears to bind to the enzyme through interactions at the high-affinity sites, (-2) and (+2), and the sugar residues at both ends more loosely bind to the corresponding subsites, (-3) and (+3). The docking study of (GlcNAc)6 with the modeled structure of OsChia1c deltaCBD supported the subsite structure estimated from the experimental time-course of hexasaccharide degradation. Since the class II chitinase from barley seeds was reported to possess a similar subsite structure from (-3) to (+3) and a similar free energy distribution, substrate-binding mode of plant chitinases of this class would be similar to each other.
1282647
12826626	This is the first report on regulation of the isoamylase1 gene to modify the structure of amylopectin and properties of starch by using antisense technology in plants. The reduction of isoamylase1 protein by about 94% in rice endosperm changed amylopectin into a water-insoluble modified amylopectin and a water-soluble polyglucan (WSP). As compared with wild-type amylopectin, the modified amylopectin had more short chains with a degree of polymerization of 5-12, while their molecular sizes were similar. The WSP, which structurally resembled the phytoglycogen in isoamylase-deficient sugary-1 mutants, accounted for about 16% of the total alpha-polyglucans in antisense endosperm, and it was distributed throughout the whole endosperm unlike in sugary-1 mutant. The reduction of isoamylase activity markedly lowered the gelatinization temperature from 54 to 43 degrees C and the viscosity, and modified X-ray diffraction pattern and the granule morphology of the starch. The activity of pullulanase, the other type of starch debranching enzyme, in the antisense endosperm was similar to that in wild-type, whereas it is deficient in sugary-1 mutants. These results indicate that the isoamylase1 is essential for amylopectin biosynthesis in rice endosperm, and that alteration of the isoamylase activity is an effective means to modify the physicochemical properties and granular structure of starch.
12826629	In order to suppress the somatic excision of the Ds element and increase the independent transposition events of the Ac/Ds transposon tagging system in rice, we employed promoters of two meiosis-specific genes of lily, LIM10 and LIM18. The LIM10 promoter directed GUS expression specifically in anthers, with the LIM18 promoter doing the same in the anthers and somatic tissue. Both promoters induced independent germinal transposition with the frequency of approximately 1%. The LIM10 promoter, lacking induction of somatic transposition, is considered to be useful for improving transposon-tagging efficiencies in rice.
12827251	AnnongS-1, a thermo-sensitive genic male-sterile (TGMS) rice line, has a new TGMS gene. Genetic analysis indicated that the sterility of AnnongS-1 was controlled by a single resessive gene named tms5. In our previous studies based on an F(2) population from the cross between AnnongS-1 and Nanjing11, tms5 was mapped on chromosome 2. Recently, a RIL (recombinant inbred line) population from the same cross was developed and used for the fine mapping of the tms5 gene. Molecular marker techniques combined with BSA (bulked segregant analysis) were used. As a result, two AFLP markers (AF10, AF8), one RAPD marker (RA4), one STS marker (C365-1), one CAPs marker (G227-1) and four SSR markers (RM279, RM492, RM327, RM324) were found to be closely linked to tms5 gene. The DNA sequences of the RFLP marker of C365 and G227 were found in GenBank, and on the basis of these sequences, many primers were designed to amplify the two parents and their RIL population plants. Finally, the tms5 gene was mapped between STS marker C365-1 and CAPs marker G227-1 at a distance of 1.04 cM from C365-1 and 2.08 cM from G227-1.
12827255	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is sensitive to chilling particularly during early seedling development. Given the biochemical complexity of tolerance mechanisms, genetic potential for this trait depends on highly coordinated expression of many genes. We used a simple cDNA subtraction strategy to develop Expressed Sequence Tags (ESTs) that represent an important subset of cold stress-upregulated genes. The 3,084 subtracted cDNA clones represent a total of 1,967 unigenes from 1,354 singletons and 613 contigs. As expected in the developing seedlings, genes involved in basic cellular processes, i.e., metabolism, growth and development, protein synthesis, folding and destination, cellular transport, cell division and DNA replication were widely represented. Genes with stress-related and regulatory functions comprised 23.17% of the total ESTs. These categories included proteins with known function in cellular defenses against abiotic (drought, cold and salinity) and biotic (pathogen) stresses, and proteins involved in developmental and stress response signalling and transcription. Based on the types of genes represented, tolerance mechanisms rely on precise integration of developmental processes with stress-related responses. A large fraction of the ESTs (38.7%) represents unknown proteins. This EST library is a rich source of cold stress-related genes, and supplements for other publicly available libraries for comprehensive analysis of the stress-response transcriptome.
12827323	Recent studies into gibberellin A(1) (GA(1)) showed it to be physiologically more active than GA(3) in plants of great agricultural interest, such as tomatoes, rice, peas, and sweet cherries. We describe here a simple procedure for obtaining large quantities of GA(1) (1,500 mg/l) by incubating the FKMC1995 strain of Fusarium fujikuroi in a standard complex medium (SCM). We also compare the GA production of this strain with that of two other wild-type strains of F. fujikuroi (IMI58289, m567) in SCM and low-nitrogen medium and discuss the possible biogenetic mechanisms involved in the over-accumulation of GA(1) by FKMC1995.
12827342	An inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer (ICP-MS) equipped with a dynamic reaction cell (DRC) was used for the determination of Ca and P in foodstuffs. In this study, two different reaction gases, CH4 and O2, were introduced successively through the different channels to alleviate different interferences in the same analysis run. The effect of the operating conditions of the DRC system was studied to get the best signal-to-noise ratio for each element. The interfering 40Ar+ at m/ z 40 was reduced in intensity by up to five orders of magnitude by using 1.0 mL min(-1) CH4 as reaction cell gas in the DRC. On the other hand, by using O2 as the reaction gas, 31P+ was converted to 31P16O+ that could be detected at m/z 47 where there was less interference. The limits of detection for Ca and P were 0.2 ng mL(-1) and 0.3 ng mL(-1), respectively. This method was used to determine the concentrations of Ca and P and the ratio of Ca to P in NIST SRM 1549 non-fat milk powder and NIST RM 8345 whole milk powder reference materials and an infant milk powder and an infant cereal-rice sample purchased locally. The results for the reference samples agreed satisfactorily with the reference values. The accuracy of the determination was better than 4.1 and 0.9% for Ca and P, respectively. The results for infant milk powder and infant cereal were also found to be in good agreement with the value on the bottle label. Precision (RSD) between sample replicates was better than 4.8% for all the determinations.
12827442	Seed development is known to involve complex physiological and molecular events. In order to gain information on the molecular events that occur in the grains of barley during kernel development, we conducted suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) using grains of barley cv. Karl at 14 days after fertilization (DAF) as the tester and grains at 5 DAF as the driver. We isolated an SSH clone that showed homology with a specific calcium binding protein in rice called EFA27. Screening the cDNA library, we identified two clones as a calcium binding protein. These clones, each carrying one calcium-binding EF-hand motif, were designated HvCaBP1 (Hordeum vulgare Calcium Binding Protein 1). HvCaBP1 possesses an N-terminal region with a conserved single Ca(2+)-binding EF-hand motif and one transmembrane helix. Northern hybridization showed that the highest expression occurred in grains and that expression increased in kernels at 8 DAF. As shown in situ hybridization, the HvCaBP1 gene was highly expressed in the embryo and tissues of the endosperm near the embryo and was detected in the vascular tissues of the glume in the kernel at 8 DAF. Accumulation of HvCaBP1 mRNAs subsequently increased in vegetative tissues for up to 48 h after abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. Transcripts of HvCaBP1 mRNAs may be regulated by endogenous ABA in the grains during kernel development.
12827882	Investigation on the effect of free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) on biomass accumulation and distribution in different parts of rice plant treated with 200 mumol.mol-1 CO2 elevation under field condition showed that the dry matter accumulated from transplanting to 20th day after heading and the total biomass increased significantly, while the dry mater accumulated from 20th day after heading to maturity was significantly depressed under FACE treatment. The enhancement of both leaf area index (LAI) and net assimilation rate (NAR) under FACE treatment resulted in the increase of dry matter accumulated from transplanting to heading, while the dominant reason for the increase of dry matter accumulated during 20 days after heading was the slowed decline of LAI. The decline of dry matter accumulated from 20th day to maturity was mainly caused by the decrease of NAR. The percentage of dry matter distributed in stem and sheath increased under FACE treatment, while that in leaf decreased, and that in panicle showed no significant change. The content (%) and amount of soluble sugar and starch in stem and sheath at heading was significantly elevated under FACE. The grain yield of rice under FACE treatment could be significantly improved by raising biomass.
12827883	The change of crop canopy energy balance will affect crop growth and development and its water use efficiency. In this study, the FACE system (setup at at Anzhen, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province in 2001) was used to investigate the effects of FACE on rice canopy energy balance. The rice canopy microclimate observations were carried out from August 26 to October 13, 2001 when the rice crops were at the heading to maturing stage. The results showed that the maximum difference of rice canopy sensible and latent heat fluxes between ambient and FACE occurred at the same time of minimum air humidity, i.e., at about 14:00. From flowering to maturing stage, the maximum difference of rice canopy sensible and latent heat flux between FACE and ambient varied between 12-55 J.m-2.s-1 and -15(-)-65 J.m-2.s-1, respectively. The daytime total canopy sensible and latent heat fluxes of FACE were higher and lower than those of ambient, respectively, throughout flowering to maturing stage. The differences of daytime total canopy sensible and latent heat fluxes between ambient and FACE increased with the increase of net radiation above canopy during the same development stage, but decreased with the progress of the development stage. From flowering to maturing stage, the average difference of daytime total canopy latent heat flux between ambient and FACE was about 6.7%. FACE increased and decreased the ratio of daytime total canopy sensible and latent heat flux to daytime total net radiation above canopy, respectively, the ratio differences between FACE and ambient were 5.5%.
12827885	The behavior of transportation, accumulation and disappearance of HTO (tritium water) in a simulated rice-water-soil ecosystem was studied by using isotope-tracer techniques for simulated pollutants, and the fitting equation was confirmed by application of the open three-compartment system model and nonlinear regression method. The results showed that HTO in water was not only transferred to other compartments in the ecosystem, but also vaporized into atmosphere rapidly. Both free water tritium and bound tritium were found in the rice, and tritium of hygroscopic and crystalline water was consisted in the soil. The specific activity of free water tritium (or tritium of hygroscopic water) was stronger than that of bound tritium (or tritium of crystalline water). The specific activity of total tritium reduced after reaching the maximum in the rice and soil, and the bound tritium increased slowly. The specific activity of total tritium in stem was the strongest in the rice, and reached equipoise each other in the later stage gradually. The regression equations of accumulation and disappearance for the specific activity of total tritium in the water, soil and rice were given by analyzing the obtained data with exponential regression method. The analysis results of variance showed that each regression equation could describe the behavior of accumulation and disappearance of HTO in the rice-water-soil ecosystems preferably.
12830352	A recently developed and validated method for simultaneous determination of 17 inorganic and organic arsenic compounds in marine biota has been successfully applied to routine analysis of different food products, including fish, shellfish, edible algae, rice, and other types of grain. During one year, approximately 250 food samples were analyzed, mostly fish and rice. Long-term stability and robustness of the system was observed and reproducible results for certified reference materials were ensured by means of control charts. The separation was performed by ion-pair chromatography on an anion-exchange column to separate anionic, neutral, and cationic arsenic species in one chromatographic run. Hyphenation to ICP-MS allowed element-specific and sensitive detection of the different arsenic species with a detection limit as low as 8 ng As L(-1)in the sample extract, which is equivalent to 2 ng As g(-1) in the original sample. Special emphasis was laid on the analysis of marine algae and rice samples. These food types can contain elevated levels of the very toxic inorganic arsenic species (up to 90% in rice) and therefore are the focus of interest in the food industry. In marine algae, inorganic arsenic was mainly present as arsenate whereas in rice arsenite predominated.
12831951	Insoluble dietary fiber is a known inhibitor of mineral absorption, whereas the effects of soluble dietary fibers (including prebiotics) are less known. The aim was to study calcium, iron, and zinc availabilities from dairy infant formulas supplemented with soluble dietary fibers and modified starches in vitro. Dairy infant formulas were supplemented with soluble dietary fibers (3%, dry wt) and modified starches (16% pregelatinized rice starch and 1.9% maltodextrin, dry wt) and kept in a well-controlled and defined environment in vitro. Pooled mature human milk was used as the reference standard. Calcium availability from standard formula was elevated by 30% after inulin supplementation (17.2%), whereas locust bean gum (11.9%) and high esterified pectin (11.7%) reduced availability by approximately 10%. Iron availability from standard formula was increased by pregelatinized rice starch (3.8%), whereas availability was reduced in the following order: high esterified pectin (2.3%), oligofructose (2.2%), and low esterified pectin (2.1%). Zinc availability was highest after the addition of pregelatinized rice starch (13.5%) but lowest with the addition of locust bean gum (6.8%) and maltodextrin (5.4%). This study showed that addition of soluble dietary fiber affects calcium, iron, and zinc availabilities in positive (inulin) and negative ways, depending on the type of the dietary fiber used.
12832071	Post-hypoxic injuries in plants are primarily caused by bursts of reactive oxygen species and acetaldehyde. In agreement with previous studies, we found accumulations of acetaldehyde in rice during re-aeration following submergence. During re-aeration, acetaldehyde-oxidizing aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity increased, thereby causing the acetaldehyde content to decrease in rice. Interestingly, re-aerated rice plants showed an intense mitochondrial ALDH2a protein induction, even though ALDH2a mRNA was submergence induced and declined upon re-aeration. This suggests that rice ALDH2a mRNA is accumulated in order to quickly metabolize acetaldehyde that is produced upon re-aeration.
12832297	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of a flexible lower- and higher-glycemic index (GI) Mexican-style diet on biochemical data and BMI during a 6-week treatment period. This study was a randomized, crossover design of two 6-week periods with a 6-week washout period between treatments. Subjects with type 2 diabetes (n = 36) with a BMI >25 kg/m(2) were selected. Fourteen subjects completed the study with eligible dietary records. Dietary instruction was provided on flexible diets with both a high and low GI. Fasting venous blood samples were taken at the start and finish of each dietary period, and biochemical data were analyzed. Multi- and univariate one-factor repeated-measures ANOVA were used to compare biochemical data. Glycemic load and GI were lower during the low-GI diet, and dietary fiber was lower during the high-GI diet. The participants in the low-GI period consumed significantly fewer carbohydrates, such as white-wheat bread, white long-grain rice, potatoes, high-GI fruits, and carrots, and more carbohydrates, such as pinto beans, whole-meal wheat bread, and low-GI fruits than did participants in the high-GI period. There were no differences in the amount of carbohydrates consumed, such as corn tortillas and dairy products. At the end of the study periods, A1c was improved on the low- compared with the high-GI diet (P < 0.008). We conclude that a low-GI diet, containing Mexican-style foods, may help to improve the metabolic control in type 2 obese diabetic subjects during a 6-week period.
12834068	Genes for an isoamylase-like debranching enzyme have been isolated from rice and Aegilops tauschii, the donor of the D genome to wheat. The structures of the genes are very similar to each other and to the maize SU1 isoamylase gene and consist of 18 exons spread over approximately 7.5 kb. Southern analysis and fluorescent in situ hybridization showed the Ae. tauschii gene to be located in the proximal region of the short arm of chromosome 7D, thus showing synteny with the localization of the rice isoamylase gene on rice chromosome 8. Analysis of the expression pattern of wheat sugary isoamylase genes indicates that they are strongly expressed in the developing endosperm 6 days after flowering. Three distinct Sugary-type cDNA sequences were isolated from the wheat endosperm that are likely to correspond to the products of the three genomes. The deduced amino acid sequence of rice and wheat Sugary-type isoamylase is compared with other sequences available in the database and the results demonstrate that there are three types of isoamylase sequences in plants: those containing 18 exons (the Sugary-type isoamylase gene), those containing 21 exons, and those containing only 1 exon. It is possible that different combinations of isoamylase genes are expressed in different tissues.
12834071	The use of transgenic plants in the production of recombinant proteins for human therapy, including subunit vaccines, is being investigated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of these emerging biopharmaceutical products. We have previously shown that synthesis of recombinant glycoprotein B (gB) of human cytomegalovirus can be targeted to seeds of transgenic tobacco when directed by the rice glutelin 3 promoter, with gB retaining critical features of immunological reactivity (E.S. Tackaberry et al. 1999. Vaccine, 17: 3020-3029). Here, we report development of second generation transgenic plant lines (T1) homozygous for the transgene. Twenty progeny plants from two lines (A23T(1)-2 and A24T(1)-3) were grown underground in an environmentally contained mine shaft. Based on yields of gB in their seeds, the A23T(1)-2 line was then selected for scale-up in the same facility. Analyses of mature seeds by ELISA showedthat gB specific activity in A23T(1)-2 seeds was over 30-fold greater than the best T0 plants from the same transformation series, representing 1.07% total seed protein. These data demonstrate stable inheritance, an absence of transgene inactivation, and enhanced levels of gB expression in a homozygous second generation plant line. They also provide evidence for the suitability of using this environmentally secure facility to grow transgenic plants producing therapeutic biopharmaceuticals.
12834164	Approximately 43% of the human genome is occupied by repetitive elements. Even more, around 51% of the rice genome is occupied by repetitive elements. The analysis presented here indicates that repetitive elements in complete genomes may have been very important in the evolutionary genomics. In this study, a database, called the Repeat Sequence Database, is first designed and implemented to store complete and comprehensive repetitive sequences. See http://rsdb.csie.ncu.edu.tw for more information. The database contains direct, inverted and palindromic repetitive sequences, and each repetitive sequence has a variable length ranging from seven to many hundred nucleotides. The repetitive sequences in the database are explored using a mathematical algorithm to mine rules on how combinations of individual binding sites are distributed among repetitive sequences in the database. Combinations of transcription factor binding sites in the repetitive sequences are obtained and then data mining techniques are applied to mine association rules from these combinations. The discovered associations are further pruned to remove insignificant associations and obtain a set of associations. The mined association rules facilitate efforts to identify gene classes regulated by similar mechanisms and accurately predict regulatory elements. Experiments are performed on several genomes including C. elegans, human chromosome 22, and yeast.
12834284	We identified four new family 19 chitinases in Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare: one class I (OsChia1d), two class II (OsChia2a and OsChia2b), and one class IV (OsChia4a). OsChia2a resembled (about 60% identity) the catalytic domains of class I chitinases, but OsChia2b was almost identical (95% identity) to that of the class IV enzyme. OsChia1c, OsChia1c deltaCBD (a deletion of OsChia1c lacking a chitin-binding domain, CBD), and OsChia2b were separately expressed and purified in Pichia pastoris. OsChia1c inhibited fungal growth significantly more than OsChia1c deltaCBD or OsChia2b. The activities of these enzymes on chitin polymers were similar, but they acted differently on N-acetylchitooligosaccharides, (GlcNAC)n. OsChia1c slowly hydrolyzed (GlcNAC)6 and very poorly hydrolyzed (GlcNAC)4 and (GlcNAC)5. In contrast, OsChia2b efficiently hydrolyzed these oligosaccharides. The high antifungal activity and low hydrolytic activity of the class I enzyme towards (GlcNAC)n imply that it participates in the generation of N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitors from the cell walls of infecting fungi.
12834406	To identify where gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis and signaling occur, we analyzed the expression of four genes involved in GA biosynthesis, GA 20-oxidase1 and GA 20-oxidase2 (OsGA20ox1 and OsGA20ox2), and GA 3-oxidase1 and GA 3-oxidase2 (OsGA3ox1 and OsGA3ox2), and two genes involved in GA signaling, namely, the gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein (Galpha), and SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1), which encodes a repressor of GA signaling. At the vegetative stage, the expression of OsGA20ox2, OsGA3ox2, Galpha, and SLR1 was observed in rapidly elongating or dividing organs and tissues, whereas the expression of OsGA20ox1 or OsGA3ox1 could not be detected. At the inflorescence or floral stage, the expression of OsGA20ox2, OsGA3ox2, Galpha, and SLR1 was also observed in the shoot meristems and stamen primordia. The overlapping expression of genes for GA biosynthesis and signaling indicates that in these tissues and organs, active GA biosynthesis occurs at the same site as does GA signaling. In contrast, no GA-biosynthesis genes were expressed in the aleurone cells of the endosperm; however, the two GA-signaling genes were actively expressed, indicating that the aleurone does not produce bioactive GAs, but can perceive GAs. The expression of OsGA20ox1 and OsGA3ox1 was observed only in the epithelium of the embryo and the tapetum of the anther. Based on the specific expression pattern of OsGA20ox1 and OsGA3ox1 in these tissues, we discuss the unique nature of the epithelium and the tapetum in terms of GA biosynthesis. The epithelium and the tapetum are considered to be an important source of bioactive GAs for aleurone and other organs of the flower, respectively.
12835399	Inflorescences of grass species have a distinct morphology in which florets are grouped in compact branches called spikelets. Although many studies have shown that the molecular and genetic mechanisms that control floret organ formation are conserved between monocots and dicots, little is known about the genetic pathway leading to spikelet formation. In the frizzy panicle (fzp) mutant of rice, the formation of florets is replaced by sequential rounds of branching. Detailed analyses revealed that several rudimentary glumes are formed in each ectopic branch, indicating that meristems acquire spikelet identity. However, instead of proceeding to floret formation, axillary meristems are formed in the axils of rudimentary glumes and they either arrest or develop into branches of higher order. The fzp mutant phenotype suggests that FZP is required to prevent the formation of axillary meristems within the spikelet meristem and permit the subsequent establishment of floral meristem identity. The FZP gene was isolated by transposon tagging. FZP encodes an ERF transcription factor and is the rice ortholog of the maize BD1 gene. Consistent with observations from phenotypic analyses, FZP expression was found to be restricted to the time of rudimentary glumes differentiation in a half-ring domain at the base of which the rudimentary glume primordium emerged.
12835929	The rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant of glu4a, lacking the glutelin alpha-2 subunit while the alpha-1 subunit increased (alpha-1H/alpha-2L), was used in this study. Two-dimensional electrophoresis analysis revealed that the mutant lacked the polypeptide pI6.71/alpha-2 encoded by glu4 while forming a new polypeptide of pI6.50/alpha-1. Experiments were conducted to identify the relationships between the mutated polypeptides of the mutant and to illustrate the mutation mechanism of the allele. Peptide mapping and amino-acid sequence analyses revealed that the newly formed glu4a encoded polypeptide pI6.50/alpha-1 of high homology with the deleted pI6.71/alpha-2 polypeptide which was encoded by glu4 (GluA-1). The nucleotide sequence revealed that the iso-electric point variation of the pI6.50/alpha-1 polypeptide was caused by a point mutation with nucleotide replacement at the variable region of the gene. These results suggested the possibility of altering glutelin quality by using single gene mutation.
12836228	Nearly 4 years after launching the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP), the rice genome sequence is almost completed. This is the second plant genome after Arabidopsis thaliana and one expect that it is more representative of other cereal genomes. Indeed, no more than 4 sequences have been independently reported as a result of a tough competition between economy, politics and media. The efficiency and impact of this way of managing a large scale project is questionable. This paper reports the various phases in sequencing rice genome as well as what we start to learn.
12836548	In this paper, the bidirectional reflectance factor (BRF) of rice measured in field experiment in 1999 and 2000 was compared with the BRF computed from the rice multicomponent bidirectional reflectance model that based on the radiative transfer theory, rice canopy geometric structural factors and different characteristics of the different growth period for rice in detail. The contribution of some sensitive factors such as the average inclination angle of all components belonged to rice and LAI was accurately specified. The results showedthat the rice multicomponent bidirectional reflectance model described above could basically simulate the angular distribution characteristic of reflectance spectrum of rice canopies, and the different peak point of the hotspot effect of rice canopies reached under different conditions. In addition, the regulation of the first-order scattering reflectance by soil and water and the multiple scattering reflectance by foliage, stem, fringe and soil changing with the average inclination angle of all components, as well as the contribution of LAI to BRF were analyzed. All of these laid a foundation to monitor rice growth and estimate its yield. Meanwhile, it also implied that some rice canopy parameters could be accurately estimated by the model through selecting the suitable image bands.
12836549	Subtle plot experiment was conducted to study the growth and water use status of rice cultivated on waterlogged soil and upland soil mulched with plastic film, semi-decomposed wheat straw and nothing in Nanjing Agricultural University. The results showed that 349 to 473 mm of water were required by rice cultivated on upland soil mulched with film, straw or nothing, and 732.5 mm of water was required on waterlogged soil. The water productive efficiencies for rice grain and biomass were between 0.899 to 1.273, and 1.655 to 2.321 g.kg-1, respectively in upland cultivation, while 0.766 and 1.459 g.kg-1 in waterlogged cultivation. Rice cultivated on upland soil mulched with semi-decomposed straw achieved 90% or more economic yield on waterlogged soil.
12836736	Researchers have frequently linked childhood sexual abuse (CSA) with some form of adult sexual disturbance. Unfortunately, research on how to treat sexual dysfunctions in women with a history of childhood sexual abuse has lagged behind. In this article, we review the literature concerning childhood sexual abuse and sexual dysfunction. In addition, we look at two theories that help explain the relationship between CSA and sexual dysfunction. Both of these theories highlight the importance of emotional experience. The contextual behavioral model described by Polusny and Follette (1995) is derived from the work of Hayes and colleagues (Hayes, Strosahl, & Wilson, 1999) and focuses on the role of experiential avoidance in understanding the problems experienced by CSA survivors. Greenberg and colleagues' emotion theory (Greenberg & Pavio, 1998; Greenberg, Rice, & Elliott, 1993; Greenberg & Savin, 1987) is useful in highlighting the way in which early abuse experiences can impair emotional development and result in maladaptive emotional schemes contributing to sexual problems. Treatments for CSA survivors' sexual problems based on the two above theories are outlined. The question concerning the applicability of traditional sex therapy for CSA survivors versus a modified treatment is discussed and recent developments in the field of sexual functioning as well as future directions for the field are also highlighted.
12837257	Taiwan's implementation of the 1997 Air Pollution Emissions Fees Program will conceivably lead to long-term reductions in pollution emissions. The purpose of this paper is to estimate the benefits to Taiwan from the expected reduction in crop losses as a direct result of such a decrease in air pollution. We employ a demand-supply framework for rice production to estimate the change in social welfare resulting from changes in the concentration of certain pollutants in the atmosphere. Our empirical results show that, in the year 1997, social welfare increments resulting from the decline in sulfur dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere ranged between US dollars 946200 and US dollars 2435800. Meanwhile, during the same period, the increase in social welfare due to the decline in the ozone concentration in the atmosphere ranged between US dollars 838100 and US dollars 1927000. The average benefit from the reduction in both sulfur dioxide and ozone concentrations is calculated to be between US dollars 2.67 and US dollars 6.86 per acre (for sulfur dioxide), and from US dollars 2.36 to US dollars 5.43 per acre (for ozone).
12837548	The NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is a large multisubunit complex in eukaryotes containing 30-40 different subunits. Analysis of this complex using blue-native gel electrophoresis coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (MS) has identified a series of 30 different proteins from the model dicot plant, Arabidopsis, and 24 different proteins from the model monocot plant, rice. These proteins have been linked back to genes from plant genome sequencing and comparison of this dataset made with predicted orthologs of complex I components in these plants. This analysis reveals that plants contain the series of 14 highly conserved complex I subunits found in other eukaryotic and related prokaryotic enzymes and a small set of 9 proteins widely found in eukaryotic complexes. A significant number of the proteins present in bovine complex I but absent from fungal complex I are also absent from plant complex I and are not encoded in plant genomes. A series of plant-specific nuclear-encoded complex I associated subunits were identified, including a series of ferripyochelin-binding protein-like subunits and a range of small proteins of unknown function. This represents a post-genomic and large-scale analysis of complex I composition in higher plants.
12837951	The plant mitochondrial genome is complex in structure, owing to a high degree of recombination activity that subdivides the genome and increases genetic variation. The replication activity of various portions of the mitochondrial genome appears to be nonuniform, providing the plant with an ability to modulate its mitochondrial genotype during development. These and other interesting features of the plant mitochondrial genome suggest that adaptive changes have occurred in DNA maintenance and transmission that will provide insight into unique aspects of plant mitochondrial biology and mitochondrial-chloroplast coevolution. A search in the Arabidopsis genome for genes involved in the regulation of mitochondrial DNA metabolism revealed a region of chromosome III that is unusually rich in genes for mitochondrial DNA and RNA maintenance. An apparently similar genetic linkage was observed in the rice genome. Several of the genes identified within the chromosome III interval appear to target the plastid or to be targeted dually to the mitochondria and the plastid, suggesting that the process of endosymbiosis likely is accompanied by an intimate coevolution of these two organelles for their genome maintenance functions.
1283819	The interaction of insecticide combinations of monocrotophos and quinalphos on Anabaena torulosa, by the criteria of absorbance (OD) and packed cell volume (PCV) of the culture, content of chlorophyll a, phycocyanin, carotenoids, total protein, DNA and RNA, heterocyst differentiation and nitrogen fixation, were assessed. In general, monocrotophos and quinalphos, in combination, interacted significantly yielding three different responses viz., additive, antagonistic or synergistic. The nature of the interaction found with OD and PCV was nearly the same for a particular concentration of the insecticides. However, no consistent interaction was observed with respect to carotenoids and phycocyanin. The three types of interaction were noticed for total protein, DNA and RNA. Interestingly, the insecticide combinations at lower concentrations yielded all interaction responses for heterocyst frequency and nitrogenase activity. But, higher concentrations, in combination, resulted in synergism for heterocyst differentiation and nitrogen fixation.
12841636	Long-term feeding effect of heated and fried peanut (PNO), rice bran (RBO) and palm oil (PO) in the diet on the hepatic antioxidant enzyme status and absorption and excretion of fats were studied in laboratory rats. The rats were fed oils heated to 180 degrees C continuously for a period of 72 h or laboratory fried at 20% level in the diet for 18 weeks. The results of the study indicated a significant increase in the catalase activity in HO groups and decrease in the FRO groups. The GPx activity while significantly low in HO groups was high in FRO groups, whereas, significant decrease in GST activity was observed in both PNO-HO/FRO groups. Increased activity was noted in RBO-FRO and PO-HO/FRO groups. The SOD activity showed a mixed response in different heated/fried oils and a marginal increase in the levels of fecal fat excretion was observed in some of the heated/fried oil groups. The results indicated no appreciable damage with respect to these antioxidant enzymes. Also, feeding heated fats as high as 20% in the diet for long duration does not result either in reduced food intake or excess fecal fat excretion.
12843675	The new nematicidal compound, betagamma-dehydrocurvularin (1), together with three known compounds, alphabeta-dehydrocurvularin (2), 8-beta-hydroxy-7-oxocurvularin (3) and 7-oxocurvularin (4), were isolated from the culture filtrate and mycelial mats of Aspergillus sp. The structures of 1-4 were established by spectroscopic methods including 2D NMR. The biological activities of 1-4 were examined by bioassays with root-lesion nematodes, and lettuce and rice seedlings.
12844217	We cloned an AP2/EREBP gene by dot blotting and named it OsDREBL. Analysis of its deduced amino-acid sequence indicated that this protein had a potential nuclear-localization signal, a possible acidic-activation domain and an AP2 DNA binding domain. Northern analysis showed that the transcripts of OsDREBL accumulated rapidly (within 30 min) in response to low temperature, but not in response to ABA, NaCl and dehydration treatments. Southern analysis indicated the presence of a single-copy of the OsDREBL gene in the Oryza sativa genome. Our research also demonstrated that OsDREBL was localized to the nucleus but did not bind effectively to the C-repeat/dehydration responsive element (CRT/DRE). These results suggested that OsDREBL may function as a transcription factor in the cold-stress response, independent of the DREB signal-transduction pathway.
12844370	Our objective was to determine whether dietary plant proteins such as soya-protein isolate (SPI) and rice-protein isolate (RPI) compared with animal proteins, such as casein, could afford beneficial effects on atherosclerosis development in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. In experiment 1, male and female mice were fed on a purified diet containing either casein, SPI or RPI for 9 weeks. The en face lesion area in the aorta (P<0.05) and the lesion size in the aortic root (P<0.05) in mice fed the casein-based diet were greater than those in the SPI or RPI groups. The plant protein groups had an increased concentration of serum l-arginine (P<0.05) and NO metabolites (NO2 plus NO3) (P<0.05) than did the casein group. The inhibitory effect of the plant proteins on the lesion formations was unrelated to gender and total serum cholesterol. In experiment 2, the l-arginine and l-methionine contents were the same in the l-arginine-supplemented casein-based and SPI-based diets, and between the l-methionine-supplemented SPI-based and the casein-based diets. Male mice were fed on the diets for 15 weeks. There were no significant differences in the en face lesion area and the lesion size between the casein group and the l-arginine-supplemented group, although the serum l-arginine (P<0.05) and NO2 plus NO3 (P<0.05) concentrations in the supplemented group were higher than those in the casein group. There were no significant effects of l-methionine supplementation on the lesion formations. In experiment 3, male mice were given the casein-based diet or the l-arginine-supplemented casein-based diet together with water or water containing an NO synthesis inhibitor for 9 weeks. When given the casein-based diet, the inhibitor drinking, compared with water drinking, resulted in a reduction of the serum NO2 plus NO3 concentration (P<0.01) and an increase in the en face lesion area (P<0.05) and the lesion size (P<0.01). When given the l-arginine-supplemented diet, the inhibitor drinking, compared with water drinking, resulted in no increase in the lesion area and size. These results demonstrate anti-atherogenic potentials of SPI- as well as RPI-derived proteins, but their l-arginine and l-methionine contents were not sufficient enough to explain the underlying mechanism(s).
12845436	MITEs (miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements) are the major transposable elements in Oryza species. We have applied the MITE-AFLP technique to study the genetic variation and species relationship in the AA-genome Oryza species. High polymorphism was detected within and between species. The genetic variation in the cultivated species, Oryza sativa and Oryza glaberrima, was comparatively lower than in their ancestral wild species. In comparison between geographical lineages of the AA genome species, African taxa, O. glaberrima and Oryza barthii, showed lower variation than the Asian taxa, O. sativa, Oryza rufipogon, and Oryza nivara, and Australian taxon Oryza meridionalis. However, another African taxon, Oryza longistaminata, showed high genetic variation. Species relationships were analyzed by the pattern of presence or absence of homologous fragments, because nucleotide sequences of the detected MITE-AFLP fragments revealed that the same fragments in different species shared very high sequence homology. The clustering pattern of the AA-genome species matched well with the geographical origins (Asian, African and Australian), and with the Australian taxon being distant to the others. Therefore, this study demonstrated that the MITE-AFLP technique is amenable for studying the genetic variation and species relationship in rice.
12845446	Genetic diversity and population genetic structure of natural Oryza rufipogon populations in China were studied based on ten microsatellite loci. For a total of 237 individuals of 12 populations collected from four regions, a moderate to high level of genetic diversity was observed at population levels with the number of alleles per locus (A) ranging from 2 to 18 (average 10.6), and polymorphic loci (P) from 40.0% to 100% (average 83.3%). The observed heterozygosity (H(O)) varied from 0.163 to 0.550 with the mean of 0.332, and the expected heterozygosity (H(E)) from 0.164 to 0.648 with the mean of 0.413. The level of genetic diversity for Guangxi was the highest. These results are in good agreement with previous allozyme and RAPD studies. However, it was unexpected that high genetic differentiation among populations was found (R(ST) = 0.5199, theta = 0.491), suggesting that about one-half of the genetic variation existed between the populations. Differentiation (pairwise theta) was positively correlated with geographical distance (r = 0.464), as expected under the isolation by distance model. The habitat destruction and degradation throughout the geographic range of O. rufipogon may be the main factor attributed to high genetic differentiation among populations of O. rufipogon in China.
12845474	To produce stable mutants from Mankeumbyeo, a japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) variety, we estimated the mutation efficiency of ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) on fertilized egg cells using doubled haploids (DHs) derived from anther culture of M1 plants. M1 seed production and germination were higher in 1 mM MNU than in 94.2 mM EMS. A total of 68 DHs (35.4%) were regenerated by anther culture of M1 plants. Twenty-one DHs (30.9%) were stable mutants, 14 DHs (20.6%) were unstable mutants, and the remainder (48.5%) were normal. The frequencies of stable mutants following EMS and MNU treatments were 20.7% (three semidwarfs, one early maturation and one glabrous line) and 38.5% (three semidwarfs, two early maturation, four glabrous and one long grain line), respectively. In a field trial of seven stable mutants for yield potential, five mutants did not show a significant difference in yield as compared with the original variety. Among these five, three glabrous mutants (MK-MAC 1, MK-MAC 4 and MK-MAC 26) with a smooth leaf and hull may be considered to be improved mutant lines because of the health benefits (reduced skin damage and generation of less dust compared to the original variety) to farmers handling the plant materials. MK-MAC 26, a glabrous mutant, had also less shattering resistance than that of the original variety. These stable mutants could be used as new breeding materials.
12846160	The cleanup procedure for the determination of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in food samples using a disposable pre-packed multi-layer silica gel column (multi-layer dioxin tube; D-tube) was evaluated. The blank test showed the need for conditioning of the column with n-hexane. To compare the method with the D-tube and the conventional method for the analyses of actual food samples, seven food samples (spinach, komatsuna, rice, salmon, beef, egg and butter) were extracted by shaking with acetone-n-hexane or n-hexane after alkaline treatment, and then the extracts were cleaned up by use of the D-tube or the prepared conventional column, followed by several column chromatographic steps. Both cleanup procedures gave similar values at each isomeric concentration level and showed similar efficiency with favorable recoveries. The results suggest that the D-tube is applicable to cleanup for the analysis of PCDD/Fs and dioxin-like PCBs in foods.
12846321	Recent research of the Agricultural Research Service of USDA on the use of natural products to manage pests is summarized. Studies of the use of both phytochemicals and diatomaceous earth to manage insect pests are discussed. Chemically characterized compounds, such as a saponin from pepper (Capsicum frutescens L), benzaldehyde, chitosan and 2-deoxy-D-glucose are being studied as natural fungicides. Resin glycosides for pathogen resistance in sweet potato and residues of semi-tropical leguminous plants for nematode control are also under investigation. Bioassay-guided isolation of compounds with potential use as herbicides or herbicide leads is underway at several locations. New natural phytotoxin molecular target sites (asparagine synthetase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase) have been discovered. Weed control in sweet potato and rice by allelopathy is under investigation. Molecular approaches to enhance allelopathy in sorghum are also being undertaken. The genes for polyketide synthases involved in production of pesticidal polyketide compounds in fungi are found to provide clues for pesticide discovery. Gene expression profiles in response to fungicides and herbicides are being generated as tools to understand more fully the mode of action and to rapidly determine the molecular target site of new, natural fungicides and herbicides.
12848342	The putative functions of NDP (nucleoside diaphosphate) kinases from various organisms focusing to fungi and plants are described. The biochemical reactions catalyzed by NDP kinase are as follows. (i) Phosphotransferring activity from mainly ATP to cognate NDPs generating nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs). (ii) Autophosphorylation activity from ATP and GTP. (iii) Protein kinase (phosphotransferring) activity phosphorylating such as myelin basic protein. NDP kinase could function to provide NTPs as a housekeeping enzyme. However, recent works proved possible functions of the NDP kinases in the processes of signal transduction in various organisms, as described below. 1) By use of the extracts of the mycelia of a filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa blue-light irradiation could increase the phosphorylation of a 15-kDa protein, which was purified and identified to be NDP kinase (NDK-1). By use of the etiolated seedlings of Pisum sativum cv Alaska and Oryza sativa red-light irradiation of intact plants increased the phosphorylation of NDP kinase. However, successive irradiation by red-far-red reversed the reaction, indicating that phytochrome-mediated light signals are transduced to the phosphorylation of NDP kinase. 2) NDP kinase localizing in mitochondria is encoded by nuclear genome and different from those localized in cytoplasm. NDP kinase in mitochondria formed a complex with succinyl CoA synthetase. 3) In Spinicia oleraceae two different NDP kinases were detected in the chloroplast, and in Pisum sativum two forms of NDP kinase originated from single species of mRNA could be detected in the choloroplast. However, the function of NDP kinases in the choloroplast is not yet known. 4) In Neurospora crassa a Pro72His mutation in NDP kinase (ndk-1Pro72His) deficient in the autophosphorylation and protein kinase activity resulted in lacking the light-induced polarity of perithecia. In wild-type directional light irradiation parallel to the solid medium resulted in the formation of the perithecial beak at the top of perithecia, which was designated as "light-induced polarity of perithecia." In wild-type in darkness the beak was formed at random places on perithecia, and in ndkPro72His mutant the perithecial beak was formed at random places even under directional light illumination. The introduction of genomic DNA and cDNA for ndk-1 demonstrated that the wild-type DNAs suppressed the mutant phenotype. With all these results except for the demonstration in Neurospora, most of the phenomena are elusive and should be solved in the molecular levels concerning with NDP kinases.
12848428	Cultivated barley, Hordeum vulgare L., is considered to be a nonhost or intermediate host species for the wheat leaf rust fungus Puccinia triticina. Here, we have investigated, at the microscopic and molecular levels, the reaction of barley cultivars to wheat leaf rust infection. In the nonhost resistant cultivar Cebada Capa, abortion of fungal growth occurred at both pre- and posthaustorial stages, suggesting that defense genes are expressed throughout the development of the inappropriate fungus during the nonhost resistance reaction. In the two barley lines L94 and Bowman, a low level of prehaustorial resistance to P. triticina was observed and susceptibility was comparable to that of wheat control plants. Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to identify genes that are differentially expressed during the nonhost resistance reaction in Cebada Capa as well as during the successful establishment of the inappropriate wheat leaf rust fungus in L94. Northern analysis indicated that two candidate genes, including a barley ortholog of the rice resistance gene Xa21, are putatively involved in nonhost and non-race-specific resistance reactions. In addition, a new gene that is specifically induced during the successful development of the inappropriate fungus P. triticina in barley has been identified.
12848517	After far-infrared (FIR) radiation onto rice hull, a methanolic extract was prepared for the determination of antioxidant ability. After 30 min of FIR treatment, the radical scavenging activity and total phenol contents of rice hull extracts increased from 47.74 to 79.63% and from 0.12 to 0.19 mM, respectively, compared to control. Inhibition of lipid peroxidation in extracts was also increased from 41.07 to 47.96%. According to the GC-MS analysis, more phenolic compounds (p-coumaric acid, 3-vinyl-1-oxybenzene, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde, vanillin, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 4,7-dihydroxyvanillic acid) were detected in FIR-irradiated rice hull extract. These results indicated that FIR radiation onto rice hull could liberate and activate covalently bound phenolic compounds that have antioxidant activities.
12850444
12852590	Parallorhogas pyralophagus (Marsh) is the principal parasitoid of the Mexican rice borer [Eoreuma loftini (Dyar)], the primary pest of sugarcane in south Texas. Insect resistant transgenic sugarcane producing Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) was developed to improve control of E. loftini. The present laboratory study addressed whether over two consecutive generations transgenic sugarcane delivered via artificial diet has adverse host-mediated effects on P. pyralophagus life history parameters. The results of this study showed that a number of life history parameters were affected by transgenic sugarcane, whereas others were not affected, and that effects varied between generations. In the first generation, adult longevity was increased by approximately 2 d, and cocoon to adult and egg to adult developmental times were prolonged by approximately 1 d in parasitoids exposed to transgenic sugarcane, whereas effects were not evident on adult size; egg load; egg to cocoon developmental time; rates of gain of longevity and egg load with adult size; and egg, larval, and pupal mortality. However, in the second generation, adult longevity was reduced by approximately 3 d, adult size by approximately 5%, egg load by approximately 24%, and rate of gain of longevity with adult size by approximately 21%, whereas effects were not evident on the rate of gain of egg load with adult size. It was concluded that although GNA transgenic sugarcane, ingested via E. loftini tissues, was not acutely toxic to P. pyralophagus, the sublethal effects on life history parameters measured in this study must be considered in a broader context to determine their possible ecological significance.
12852641	The effects of the snowdrop lectin, Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA), delivered through an artificial diet, on growth, development, and life history parameters of the Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar), were evaluated in the laboratory. Incorporation of GNA at three treatment levels, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0% of total dietary protein, in the larval diet significantly decreased larval survivorship and percentage of adults emerging relative to a control diet lacking GNA, whereas differences were not observed among the three treatment levels. Both larvae and pupae in the control were 8-25% larger than those in the GNA treatments, but differences were not observed between larvae in the GNA treatments. Furthermore, presence of GNA did not affect larval and pupal developmental periods, longevities, and fecundities compared with the control. Mexican rice borer life history parameters, such as net reproductive rate and intrinsic rate of increase, were substantially reduced by the presence of GNA in the diet, but differences were not evident among the three GNA treatment levels.
12852981	To investigate the greenhouse gases emissions from paddy fields and uplands, methane and nitrous oxide emissions were estimated from local measurement and the IPCC guidelines during 1990-2000 in Taiwan. Annual methane emission from 182,807 to 242,298 ha of paddy field in the first crop season ranged from 8,062 to 12,066 ton, and it was between 16,261 and 25,007 ton for 144,178-211,968 ha in the second crop season with local measurement. The value ranged from 12,132 to 17,465 ton, and from 16,046 to 24,762 ton of methane in the first and second crop season with the IPCC guidelines for multiple aeration treatments, respectively. Annual nitrous oxide emission was between 472 and 670 ton and between 236 and 359 ton in the first and second crop season, respectively. Methane and nitrous oxide emissions from uplands depend on crop, growth season, fertilizer application and environmental conditions. Annual methane emission from upland crops, vegetable, fruit, ornamental plants, forage crops and green manure crops was 138-252, 412-460, 97-100, 3-5, 4-5 and 3-51 ton, respectively. Annual nitrous oxide emission was 1,080-1,976, 1,784-1,994, 2,540-2,622, 31-54, 43-53 and 38-582 ton, respectively. Annual nitrous oxide emission ranged from 91 to 132 ton for 77,593-11,2095 ton of nitrogen-fixing crops, from 991 to 1,859 ton for 3,259,731-6,183,441 ton of non-nitrogen-fixing crops, and from 1.77 to 2.22 Gg for 921,169-1,172,594 ton of chemical fertilizer application. In addition, rice hull burning emitted 19.3-24.2 ton of methane and 17.2-21.5 ton of nitrous oxide, and corn stalk burning emitted 2.1-4.2 ton of methane and 1.9-3.8 ton of nitrous oxide. Methane emission from the agriculture sector was 26421-37914 ton, and nitrous oxide emission was 9810-11,649 ton during 1990-2000 in Taiwan. Intermittent irrigation in paddy fields reduces significantly methane emission; appropriate application of nitrogen fertilization and irrigation in uplands and paddy fields also decreases nitrous oxide emission.
12853283	Low irradiance in the early phase of grain filling in rice often results in a low grain yield, but its effects on the partitioning of previously or recently assimilated carbon within the plant or panicle have not been seriously examined. The objective of this study was to demonstrate the effect of shading during the different stages in the early phase of grain filling on the partitioning of previously or recently assimilated carbon among constituent organs and into superior and inferior spikelets of the panicle in rice (Oryza sativa L. 'Sasanishiki') plants using 13C as a tracer. Plants were grown either under low (shading) or moderate (non-shading) irradiance (120 and 800 micromol quantum m(-2) s(-1)) for 3 or 4 d before or after the 13CO2 feeding at heading, full-heading or milky stages during the early phase of grain filling. Four days after the 13CO2 feeding, the proportion of labelled (previously assimilated) carbon partitioned into the panicle was 17% higher in plants grown under low irradiance compared with plants grown under moderate irradiance at the full-heading stage (7-11 d after heading), while the proportion partitioned into the culm was 13% lower. The light treatments for 3 d were conducted before the 13CO2 feeding and partitioning of the labelled (recently-assimilated) carbon into spikelets was examined 6 h after feeding. The amount of labelled carbon partitioned into the spikelets of the secondary branch (inferior grains) in the plants grown under low irradiance was only 31% when compared with plants grown under moderate irradiance at the full-heading stage, although the partitioning of labelled carbon into the apical spikelets of the primary branch (superior grains) was not affected by the light treatments. These results clearly indicate that preferential partitioning of assimilated carbon into the panicle occurs under low irradiance at around 7-11 d after heading and that the priority of superior spikelets for assimilated carbon intensifies. This phenomenon is thought to be an important strategy for such rice cultivars as used in this study to achieve a certain proportion of ripened grains even under light limited conditions.
12853580	Genomic regions of nearly every species diverged into different haplotypes, mostly based on point mutations, small deletions, and insertions that do not affect the collinearity of genes within a species. However, the same genomic interval containing the z1C gene cluster of two inbred lines of Zea mays significantly lost their gene collinearity and also differed in the regulation of each remaining gene set. Furthermore, when inbreds were reciprocally crossed, hybrids exhibited an unexpected shift of expression patterns so that "overdominance" instead of "dominance complementation" of allelic and nonallelic gene expression occurred. The same interval also differed in length (360 vs. 263 kb). Segmental rearrangements led to sequence changes, which were further enhanced by the insertion of different transposable elements. Changes in gene order affected not only z1C genes but also three unrelated genes. However, the orthologous interval between two subspecies of rice (not rice cultivars) was conserved in length and gene order, whereas changes between two maize inbreds were as drastic as changes between maize and sorghum. Given that chromosomes could conceivably consist of intervals of haplotypes that are highly diverged, one could envision endless breeding opportunities because of their linear arrangement along a chromosome and their expression potential in hybrid combinations ("binary" systems). The implication of such a hypothesis for heterosis is discussed.
12854179	To explore the characteristics of diarrhea caused by acaroid mites. Acaroid mites in fresh stools of 241 patients with diarrhea were separated by flotation in saturated saline. Meanwhile, skin prick test, total IgE and mite-specific IgE were detected in all patients. The total positive rate of mites in stool samples of the patients was 17.01 % (41/241), the positive rates of mites in male and female patients were 15.86 % (23/145) and 18.75 % (18/96), respectively, without significant difference (P>0.05). The percentage of skin prick test as "+++", "++", "+", "+/-" and "-" was 9.13 % (22/241), 7.47 % (18/241), 5.81 % (14/241), 4.98 % (12/241) and 72.61 % (175/241), respectively. The serum levels of total IgE, mite-specific IgE in patients with and without mites in stool samples were (165.72+/-78.55) IU/ml, (132.44+/-26.80) IU/ml and (145.22+/-82.47) IU/ml, (67.35+/-45.28) IU/ml, respectively, with significant difference (P<0.01). The positive rate of mites in stool samples in staffs working in traditional Chinese medicine storehouses or rice storehouses (experimental group) was 26.74 % (23/86), which was significantly higher than that (11.61 %, 18/155) in people engaged in other professions (chi(2)=8.97, P<0.01). Acaroid mites cause diarrhea and increase serum levels of total IgE and mite-specific IgE of patients, and the prevalence of diarrhea caused by acaroid mites is associated with occupations rather than the gender of patients.
12854976	In order to identify rice genes involved in nutrient partitioning, microarray experiments have been done to quantify genomic scale gene expression. Genes involved in nutrient partitioning, specifically grain filling, will be used to identify other co-regulated genes, and DNA binding proteins. Proper identification of the initial set of bait genes used for further investigation is critical. Hierarchical clustering is useful for grouping genes with similar expression profiles, but decreases in utility as data complexity and systematic noise increases. Also, its rigid classification of genes is not consistent with our belief that some genes exhibit multifaceted, context dependent regulation. Singular value decomposition (SVD) of microarray data was investigated as a method to complement current techniques for gene expression pattern recognition. SVD's usefulness, in finding likely participants in grain filling, was measured by comparison with results obtained previously via clustering. 84 percent of these known grain-filling genes were re-identified after detailed SVD analysis. An additional set of 28 genes exhibited a stronger grain-filling pattern than those grain-filling genes that were unselected. They also had upstream sequence containing motifs over-represented among grain filling genes. The pattern-based perspective that SVD provides complements to widely used clustering methods. The singular vectors provide information about patterns that exist in the data. Other aspects of the decomposition indicate the extent to which a gene exhibits a pattern similar to those provided by the singular vectors. Thus, once a set of interesting patterns has been identified, genes can be ranked by their relationship with said patterns.
12855438	The International Rice Information System (IRIS, http://www.iris.irri.org) is the rice implementation of the International Crop Information System (ICIS, http://www.icis.cgiar.org), a database system for the management and integration of global information on genetic resources and germplasm improvement for any crop. Building upon the germplasm genealogy and field data components of ICIS, IRIS is being extended to handle diverse rice genomics data including: genetic mapping, genome annotation, genotype, mutant, transcripteome, proteome and metabolomic data. Users can access information in the database through stand-alone programs and WWW interfaces offering specialist views to researchers with different interests.
12855676	RF2a is a bZIP transcription factor that regulates expression of the promoter of rice tungro bacilliform badnavirus. RF2a is predicted to include three domains that contribute to its function. The results of transient assays with mutants of RF2a from which one or more domains were removed demonstrated that the acidic domain was essential for the activation of gene expression, although the proline-rich and glutamine-rich domains each played a role in this function. Studies using fusion proteins of different functional domains of RF2a with the 2C7 synthetic zinc finger DNA-binding domain showed that the acidic region is a relatively strong activation domain, the function of which is dependent on the context in which the domain is placed. Data from transgenic plants further supported the conclusion that the acidic domain was important for maintaining the biological function of RF2a. RF2a and TBP (TATA-binding protein) synergistically activate transcription in vitro (Zhu, Q., Ordiz, M. I., Dabi, T., Beachy, R. N., and Lamb, C. (2002) Plant Cell 14, 795-803). In vitro and in vivo assays showed that RF2a interacts with TBP through the glutamine-rich domain but not the acidic domain. Functional analysis of such interactions indicates that the acidic domain activates transcription through mechanisms other than via the direct recruitment of TBP.
12856163	To enhance the performance of a serum-free medium (SFM) for human thrombopoietin (hTPO) production in suspension cultures of recombinant Chinese hamster ovary (rCHO) cells, several low-cost hydrolysates such as yeast hydrolysate (YH), soy hydrolysate, wheat gluten hydrolysate and rice hydrolysate were tested as medium additives. Among various hydrolysates tested, the positive effect of YH on hTPO production was most significant. When 5 g l(-1) YH was added to SFM, the maximum hTPO concentration in batch culture was 40.41 microg ml(-1), which is 11.5 times higher than that in SFM without YH supplementation. This enhanced hTPO production in YH-supplemented SFM was obtained by the combined effect of enhanced q(hTPO) (the specific rate of hTPO production). The supplementation of YH in SFM increased q(hTPO) by 294% and extended culture longevity by >2 days if the culture was terminated at a cell viability of 50%. Furthermore, cell viability throughout the culture using YH-supplemented SFM was higher than that using any other hydrolysate-supplemented SFM tested, thereby minimizing degradation of hTPO susceptible to proteolytic degradation. In addition, YH supplementation did not affect in vivo biological activity of hTPO. Taken together, the results obtained demonstrate the potential of YH as a medium additive for hTPO production in serum-free suspension cultures of rCHO cells.
12856932	Flooded rice fields are one of the major biogenic methane sources. In this study, the effects of straw residual treatments on methane emission from paddy fields were discussed. The experimental field was located at Tainan District Agricultural Improvement Station in Chia-Yi county (23 degrees 25'08''N, 120degrees16'26''E) of southern Taiwan throughout the first and the second crop seasons in 2000. The seasonal methane fluxes in the first crop season with rice stubble removed, rice straw burned and rice straw incorporated were 4.41, 3.78 and 5.27 g CH4 m(-2), and the values were 32.8, 38.9 and 75.1 g CH4 m(-2) in the second crop season, respectively. In comparison of three management methods of rice straw residue, the incorporation of rice straw residue should show a significant tendency for enhancing methane emission in the second crop season. Moreover, stubble removed and straw burned treatments significantly reduced CH4 emissions by 28 approximately 56% emissions compared to straw incorporated plot. Concerning for air quality had led to legislation restricting rice straw burning, removing of rice stubble might be an appropriate methane mitigation strategy in Taiwan paddy soils.
12856935	The Arabidopsis genome contains seven genes that belong to the RecQ family of ATP-dependent DNA helicases. RecQ members in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (SGS1) and man (WRN, BLM and RecQL4) are involved in DNA recombination, repair and genome stability maintenance, but little is known about the function of their plant counterparts. The Arabidopsis thaliana RecQsim gene is remarkably different from the other RecQ-like genes due to an insertion in its helicase domain. We isolated the AtRecQsim orthologues from rice and rape and established the presence of a similar insertion in their helicase domain, which suggests a plant specific function for the insert. The expression pattern of the AtRecQsim gene was compared with the other Arabidopsis RecQ-like members in different tissues and in response to stress. The transcripts of the AtRecQsim gene were found in all plant organs and its accumulation was higher in roots and seedlings, as compared to the other AtRecQ-like members. In contrast to most AtRecQ-like genes, the examined environmental cues did not have a detectable effect on the accumulation of the AtRecQsim transcripts. The budding yeast sgs1 mutant, which is known to be hypersensitive to the DNA-damaging drug MMS, was transformed with the AtRecQsim cDNA. The AtRecQsim gene suppressed the MMS hypersensitivity phenotype of the sgs1 cells. We propose that the Arabidopsis RecQsim gene, despite its unusual structure, exhibits an evolutionary conserved function.
12856948	A defense-inducible maize gene was discovered through global mRNA profiling analysis. Its mRNA expression is induced by pathogens and defense-related conditions in various tissues involving both resistant and susceptible interactions. These include Cochliobolus heterostrophus and Cochliobolus carbonum infection, ultraviolet light treatment, the Les9 disease lesion mimic background, and plant tissues engineered to express flavonoids or the avirulence gene avrRxv. The gene was named Zm-mfs1 after it was found to encode a protein related to the major facilitator superfamily (MFS) of intregral membrane permeases. It is most closely related to the bacterial multidrug efflux protein family, typified by the Escherichia coli TetA, which are proton motive force antiporters that export antimicrobial drugs and other compounds, but which can be also involved in potassium export/proton import or potassium re-uptake. Other related plant gene sequences in maize, rice, and Arabidopsis were identified, three of which are introduced here. Among this new plant MFS subfamily, the characteristic MFS motif in cytoplasmic TM2-TM3 loop, and the antiporter family motif in transmembrane domain TM5 are both conserved, however the TM7 and the cytoplasmic TM8-TM9 loop are divergent from those of the bacterial multidrug transporters. We hypothesize that Zm-Mfs1 is a prototype of a new class of plant defense-related proteins that could be involved in either of three nonexclusive roles: (1) export of antimicrobial compounds produced by plant pathogens; (2) export of plant-generated antimicrobial compounds; and (3) potassium export and/or re-uptake, as can occur in plant defense reactions.
12857795
12857848	We investigated the role of xylem cavitation, plant hydraulic conductance, and root pressure in the response of rice (Oryza sativa) gas exchange to water stress. In the field (Philippines), the percentage loss of xylem conductivity (PLC) from cavitation exceeded 60% in leaves even in watered controls. The PLC versus leaf water potential relationship indicated diurnal refilling of cavitated xylem. The leaf water potential causing 50 PLC (P(50)) was -1.6 MPa and did not differ between upland versus lowland rice varieties. Greenhouse-grown varieties (Utah) were more resistant to cavitation with a 50 PLC of -1.9 MPa but also showed no difference between varieties. Six-day droughts caused concomitant reductions in leaf-specific photosynthetic rate, leaf diffusive conductance, and soil-leaf hydraulic conductance that were associated with cavitation-inducing water potentials and the disappearance of nightly root pressure. The return of root pressure after drought was associated with the complete recovery of leaf diffusive conductance, leaf-specific photosynthetic rate, and soil-leaf hydraulic conductance. Root pressure after the 6-d drought (61.2 +/- 8.8 kPa) was stimulated 7-fold compared with well-watered plants before drought (8.5 +/- 3.8 kPa). The results indicate: (a) that xylem cavitation plays a major role in the reduction of plant hydraulic conductance during drought, and (b) that rice can readily reverse cavitation, possibly aided by nocturnal root pressure.
12858182	The 'green revolution' was fueled by the introduction of the semi-dwarf trait into cereal crop cultivars. The semi-dwarf cultivars--which respond abnormally to the plant growth hormone gibberellin (GA)--are more resistant to wind and rain damage and thus yield more grain when fertilized. To generate dwarf rice plants using a biotechnological approach, we modified the level of GA by overproduction of a GA catabolic enzyme, GA 2-oxidase. When the gene encoding GA 2-oxidase, OsGA2ox1, was constitutively expressed by the actin promoter, transgenic rice showed severe dwarfism but failed to set grain because GA is involved in both shoot elongation and reproductive development. In contrast, OsGA2ox1 ectopic expression at the site of bioactive GA synthesis in shoots under the control of the promoter of a GA biosynthesis gene, OsGA3ox2 (D18), resulted in a semi-dwarf phenotype that is normal in flowering and grain development. The stability and inheritance of these traits shows the feasibility of genetic improvement of cereal crops by modulation of GA catabolism and bioactive GA content.
12859148	The relative importance of photosynthetically active radiation and UV on photoinhibition has been studied in the cyanobacterium Anabaena sp. by measuring the effective quantum yield, growth, pigmentation and fluorescence emission.
12859766	To investigate the production of xylitol by the yeast Candida guilliermondii FTI 20037, in a bioreactor, from rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate with a high xylose concentration. Batch fermentation was carried out with rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate containing about 85 g xylose l(-1), in a stirred-tank bioreactor at 30 degrees C, under aeration of 1.3 vvm (volume of air per volume of medium per min) and different stirring rates (200, 300 and 500 rev min(-1)). The bioconversion of xylose into xylitol by the yeast depended on the stirring rate, the maximum xylitol yield (YP/S = 0.84 g g(-1)) being achieved at 300 rev min-1, with no need to pretreat the hydrolysate for purification. To determine the most adequate oxygen transfer rate is fundamental to improving the xylose-to-xylitol bioconversion by C. guilliermondii. For the microbial production of xylitol to be economically viable, the initial concentration of xylose in the lignocellulosic hydrolysate should be as high as possible, as with high substrate concentrations it is possible to increase the final product concentration. Nevertheless, there are few reports on the use of high xylose concentrations. Considering a process in bioreactor, from rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate, this is an innovator work.
12861434	The amount of sample that is available for analysis in laboratory plant cultivation experiments is usually very limited. Highly sensitive analytical techniques are therefore required, even for elements that are present in the plants at mg g(-1) concentrations, and graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS) was chosen in this work because of its micro-sampling capability, and its relatively simple operation. Four micro-methods were investigated for the determination of iron in roots and leaves of rice plants: i) a micro-digestion with nitric and hydrochloric acids, ii) a slurry procedure using tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) tissue solubilizer, iii) a slurry prepared in 1.4 mol L(-1) nitric acid, and treated in an ultrasonic bath, and iv) the direct analysis of solid samples. The micro-digestion was suffering from high blank values and contamination problems, so that it could not be recommended for routine purposes. The TMAH method exhibited poor precision and occasional low recoveries, particularly for real samples. Direct solid sampling analysis gave results similar to those obtained with the slurry technique with ultrasonic agitation for the determination of iron in certified reference materials with iron content up to about 100 microg g(-1), but was too sensitive for the investigated rice plants, which had an iron content up to several mg g(-1). The slurry technique with ultrasonic treatment of the samples, suspended in dilute nitric acid, was finally adopted as the method of choice. The method was then applied for the determination of iron in the leaves and in different compartments of the roots of two rice cultivars, one sensitive to iron toxicity, an important nutritional disorder, and the other one resistant to iron toxicity. The results suggest that the higher resistance to iron toxicity of the second cultivar is due to a smaller uptake of iron from the soil, resulting in lower iron levels in all compartments of the plant.
12861624	With the use of a seed washing technique, more than 4000 Gram negative bacteria were isolated by two improved isolation methods from 446 batches of 1 kg rice seed samples obtained from 22 provinces in the Philippines. They were initially characterized on the basis of colony morphology and results of biochemical and pathogenicity tests. Six hundred and fifty-two strains were further identified by Biolog, from which 133 were selected for fatty acid methylester (FAME) analysis together with 80 standard reference strains. Sixteen species or types of Pseudomonas and 17 genera of non-pseudomonads were identified, more than one third of which have not been recorded in rice. The most predominant species observed were P.putida and P. fulva. About 17% of the strains of Pseudomonas and 2% of the non pseudomonads were antagonistic to one or more fungal or bacterial pathogens of rice. Rice seed is an important source of biological control agents.
12861625	Understanding the growth and physiological responses of rice to upland conditions would be helpful for designing treatments to improve the tolerance of rice under a rainfed system. The objective of this study was to investigate the initiation,elongation and membrane stability of seminal, lateral and adventitious roots of upland rice after 9-d upland condition treatment. Compared with control roots under waterlogged conditions, upland water deficiency conditions favor seminal and lateral root growth over adventitious root growth by accelerating seminal root elongation, promoting lateral root initiation and elongation, and reducing the elongation and number of adventitious roots. Enhanced total root number and length resulted in increase of total root dry weight and thereby increasing the root-to-shoot ratio. Organic compound leakage from seminal root tips and adventitious roots increased progressively to some extent with upland culture duration, while significant increases in seminal root tips were the consequence of loss of membrane integrity caused by the upland-condition enhanced growth.
12862215	The objective of this study is to investigate the potential of the activated rice husk to be used as an alternative adsorbent to powdered activated carbon (PAC) in the simultaneous adsorption and biodegradation processes under sequencing batch reactor (SBR) operation to treat synthetic wastewater containing phenol, p-methylphenol, p-ethylphenol and p-isopropylphenol. The rice husk (PRH) was activated by pyrolysis at 600 degrees C for 5 hours in a nitrogen atmosphere. Using the Langmuir model, the limiting adsorption capacities of PRH for the phenols were found to vary from 0.015-0.05 of those of PAC. The SBR reactors with and without adsorbent addition were operated with fill, react, settle, draw and idle periods in the ratio of 4:6:1:0.76:0.25 for a cycle time of 12 hours. For phenolic wastewater containing, 1,200 mg/L phenol, 1,200 mg/L p-methylphenol, 800 mg/L p-ethylphenol and 660 mg/L p-isopropylphenol, it was found that the biodegradation process alone was unable to produce effluent of quality which would satisfy the discharge standards of COD < or = 100 mg/L and phenol concentration < or = 1 mg/L. The addition of PAC in the ratio of PAC/phenolic compound at 0.095 g/g for phenol, 0.119 g/g for p-methylpheol, 0.179 g/g for p-ethylphenol and 0.220 g/g for p-isopropylphenol, can improve the effluent quality to satisfy the discharge standards. Equivalent treatment performance was achieved with the use of PRH at dosages of 2-3 times higher than those of PAC for all the phenolic wastewater studied. The increased adsorption capacity of PRH shown in the treatment indicates bioregeneration of the adsorbed surface during the treatment process.
12867177	The absorption and accumulation of Cd2+, Fe3+, Zn2+, Mn2+, Cu2+ and Mg2+ in the roots and leaves of 20 rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L.) with different genotypes under cadmium (Cd) stress were investigated with pot experiments. The results showed that there existed significant differences among the rice cultivars in the contents of six mineral elements in both roots and leaves at both heading and ripening periods. The statistical analysis showed that, for their contents in roots, significant and positive correlations between Cd2+ and Fe3+, Cd2+ and Zn2+, Cd2+ and Mn2+, Cd2+ and Cu2+ existed, but no significant correlation between Cd2+ and Mg2+, at the two periods. In the leaves, Cd also showed significant and positive correlations with Fe3+, Zn2+ and Cu2+ at the both periods, but a significant and negative correlation with Mn2+ and no significant correlation with Mg2+ at heading, a significant and positive correlation with Mg2+ and no significant correlation with Mn2+ at ripening. These results suggested that there were cooperative absorption between Cd2+ and Fe3+, Mn2+, Cu2+, Mn2+ in rice plants. Genotypic differences in Cd uptake and translocation among the rice cultivars suggested that paddy field of some rice cultivars may be irrigated with partially treated sewage water.
12868215
12868281	The goal of the present study was to know the chemical characteristics of the moss Sphagnum magellanicum (S.M.) growing in the southern part of Chile, spreading approximately. in a geographic area of 500.000 Has. Very few antecedents are reported in the literature concerning the functional properties of this resource, with the exception of the water absorption and holding capacity. Many of the industrial or agricultural uses of this moss are strongly related with this characteristic. Looking for other alternatives of utilization, it has been planned its incorporation to staple foods as a source of dietary fiber. But first it is necessary to know its chemical characteristics Representative samples of this material were submitted to different chemical analysis such as proximal analysis, fractional fiber analysis and anti nutrient factors.. Results of those analysis show the high amount of dietary fiber founded in this resource (77%), higher than reported data for other traditional fiber sources such as lupin bran, rice hull, barley hull, oat bran, etc. Finally it is important emphasize the absence of antinutrient factor in this moss, that could make feasible its use for human nutrition.
12868586	A variable-pressure scanning electron microscopy (VP-SEM) with a cooling stage permits long hours of observation of water-containing specimens in their natural or close to natural state, without the conventional specimen preparations of fixation, dehydration, drying and metal coating. It reduces water vaporization and beam damage by keeping the specimens at a low temperature. We observed Bacillus cereus colonies on nutrient agar, which would shrink significantly if any conventional specimen preparation technique were used. We also studied the growing process of the bacteria on raw and steamed rice using the VP-SEM without conventional preparation techniques. Original specimens were directly mounted onto specimen holders and their backscattered electron images observed under the following conditions: specimen stage temperature, -10 degrees C; specimen chamber vacuum level, 30-70 Pa; and accelerating voltage, 15-20 kV. We recognized that the VP-SEM minimized deformation of the colonies due to shrinkage of the nutrient agar, and successfully imaged the morphology of the colonies and bacteria without a decline in bacteria number, which is apt to occur during fixation and dehydration. Also, the growth process of the bacteria on raw or steamed rice could be observed promptly, since there is no specimen preparation step.
12869764	We collected and completely sequenced 28,469 full-length complementary DNA clones from Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare. Through homology searches of publicly available sequence data, we assigned tentative protein functions to 21,596 clones (75.86%). Mapping of the cDNA clones to genomic DNA revealed that there are 19,000 to 20,500 transcription units in the rice genome. Protein informatics analysis against the InterPro database revealed the existence of proteins presented in rice but not in Arabidopsis. Sixty-four percent of our cDNAs are homologous to Arabidopsis proteins.
12870375	This study was designed to assess whether a rice-hydrolysate formula allows normal growth and adequate metabolic balance in infants with cows' milk protein allergy. Infants (seven females, nine males; aged 6-14 months) were randomly assigned to receive a rice-hydrolysate formula (n = 8) or a soy formula (control group, n = 8). Standardized growth indices (Z scores) and biochemical parameters were evaluated during a 6-month treatment period. Infants in both groups showed normal growth patterns during the study, and no adverse reactions were seen. Mean plasma biochemical parameters were within the normal ranges, and did not differ between groups. In conclusion, rice-hydrolysate formula may be a nutritionally suitable alternative for infants with cows' milk protein allergy. Larger studies, with satisfactory power, should be undertaken to confirm these findings.
12872227	We have used affinity chromatography in combination with mass spectrometry to isolate, identify, and assign a preliminary functional annotation to a large number of both known and novel proteins from rice. Rice (Oryza sativa) leaf, root, and seed tissue extracts were fractionated by column affinity chromatography using alpha-D-mannose as the ligand. Bound fractions were eluted and subjected to one-dimensional electrophoresis, followed by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric analysis of separated proteins. This multiplexed technology resulted in the isolation and identification of 136 distinct mannose binding proteins from rice. A comparative analysis demonstrates very little overlap of identified proteins between the respective tissues, and confirms the correctly compartmentalized presence of a significant number of proteins from largely tissue-specific biochemical pathways. Over 30% of the identified proteins with a previously annotated function are directly involved in sugar metabolism, including several highly expressed known rice lectins. Direct comparison of the peptide sequences identified in this study to those peptides identified in the most comprehensive survey of the rice proteome to date indicates that our current data represents a significant enrichment of proteins unique to this dataset. Nearly 15% of the identified proteins, identified on the basis of exact peptide matching to sequences in the rice genomic database, represent proteins without a previously known functional annotation, indicating the potential of this combined chromatographic approach to assign a preliminary function to novel proteins in a high-throughput fashion.
12872490	The ENOD40 gene, found in several leguminous and non-leguminous plant species is expressed in the pericycle of legume roots early in the nodulation process, adjacent to the protoxylem poles, but before the cortical cells divide to form the nodule itself. The ENOD40 transcript contains only short open reading frames which give rise to short peptides with a signaling function. The current work reports the cloning and analysis of ENOD40 genes from perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques lead to the isolation of a 659 bp cDNA encoding an ENOD40 homologue, designated LpE-NOD40, from a Lolium perenne stem cDNA library. In addition, a partial ENOD40 cDNA of 384 bp was isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare) by RT-PCR cloning. The LpENOD40 transcript encodes a putative dodecapeptide, similar to that identified in ENOD40s from leguminous plants and other dicots, and also to ENOD40s from monocots. The coding sequences of ryegrass and barley ENOD40 are represented by a short open reading frame of 12 amino acids. These show a high degree of similarity to each other and to other ENOD40 sequences from monocots. The corresponding genomic DNA from a genomic ryegrass lambda library revealed that the LpENOD40 gene contains no introns. Southern blot analysis shows that the ryegrass genome contains a single copy, possibly two copies, of the gene. Alignment of the ENOD40 cDNA sequences from ryegrass and barley revealed high (77%) nucleotide homology. The ENOD40 peptides are highly conserved, not only among monocots but also on comparison with the dicot peptides. The amino acid identity of region I from ryegrass with its counterparts in maize, barley and rice is 92, 83 and 75% respectively. Expression analysis by RT-PCR demonstrates that a high level of LpENOD40 gene transcript was found expressed in stem tissue, while a lower level was detected in leaves and only a very low expression in flowers of perennial ryegrass. No LpENOD40 transcript was detected in roots.
12872712	Thirty-five years have been passing since the outbreak of Kanemi rice oil poisoning, namely, Yusho in the western Japan. However, even now the patients with Yusho have been still suffering from several objective and subjective symptoms. In order to improve or, if possible, to cure the such symptoms, the most important therapeutic treatment is considered to actively excrete the most toxic causative PCDFs/DDs congeners, that is, 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (PenCDF) and 1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (HxCDD) from the bodies of the patients and to reduce their body burdens. In rats, dietary fiber and chlorophyll have been shown to promote the fecal excretion of dioxins and to reduce their levels in rat liver. In this study, we examined whether such kinds of effect were also observed by FBRA, which was the health food and relatively rich with dietary fiber and chlorophyll in nine married Japanese couples. As a result, concentrations of PenCDF and HxCDD on the lipid weight basis in the blood of the FBRA-intake group in which they took 7.0 to 10.5 g of FBRA after each meal and three times a day for one year were more lowered than those in the blood of the non-intake group; Blood levels of PenCDF and HxCDD in the FBRA-intake group were decreased by 30.5 and 33.9%, respectively, and those decreases were 22.0 and 24.5% in the non-intake group. Their total body burdens just before and one year after the study were calculated on the assumptions that the body fat was also contaminated with these congeners at their blood levels on the lipid weight basis and the content of body fat was 20% of the body weight. Then, we computed the average amounts in excretion of PenCDF and HxCDD from the body in both the FBRA-intake and non-intake groups. Consequently, the amounts of excretion of PenCDF and HxCDD in the FBRA-intake group were 2.1 and 1.9 times, respectively, greater than those in the non-intake group. Therefore, FBRA seemed to promote the fecal excretion of PenCDF and HxCDD, the main causative PCDFs/DDs congeners of Yusho, from the human body. We also expect FBRA to reduce their body burdens of patients with Yusho and to improve some objective and subjective symptoms of Yusho patients.
12872713	Follow-up survey of the blood concentration of polychlorinated dibezo-p-dioxin (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofuran (PCDFs), Non-ortho-coplaner PCBs (Non-Co-PCB), and Mono-ortho-coplaner PCBs (Mo-Co-PCB) in Yusho patients is very important for their health control. We determined the blood concentration of these dioxin-like isomers in 78 blood samples collected in 2001 using by a high-resolution gas chromatograph/high-resolution mass spectrometer (HRGC/HRMS) equipped with a solvent-cut large volume injection system (SCLV). The accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) method was employed for the treatment of blood samples. The method employed here can allow a reduced amount of blood collecting from Yusho patients compared with the conventional method. In typical Yusho patients (Group A of PCB pattern), the mean TEQ concentrations of PCDDs, PCDFs, Non-Co-PCBs, and Mono-Co-PCBs in blood collected in 2001 were 36, 260, 9.3, and 64 pg-TEQ/g lipid, respectively. As well, the toxic contribution of PCDDs, PCDFs, Non-Co-PCBs, and Mono-Co-PCBs in typical Yusho patients (Group A of PCB pattern) were 10, 70, 3, and 17% of the total TEQ value, respectively. The toxic contribution rate of PCDFs TEQ was still at high levels in relation to total TEQ in typical Yusho patients as mention above. The Yusho patients showing B pattern also had the same A pattern contribution rate. In the patients of group C, however, the mean blood levels of dioxin TEQ in 2001 was two times those of the normal controls determined in 2000 in Fukuoka prefecture. As well, the contribution rates were similar to those of normal subjects, although some patients in this group showed a high toxic contribution rate of PCDFs TEQ in relation to total TEQ. Thirty-three years had passed since the Yusho accident, and the total blood concentrations of PCDFs in the blood of Yusho patients were still higher than those of normal subjects. Among the different groups of PCB patterns, the concentration of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF showed significant differences. These findings indicate that these isomers are not metabolized in the human body since traces of them continued to be detected in these patients since they had been contaminated by the rice oil in the original incident.
12872715	This paper reports that we can replace a conventional PCB analytical method with an isomer specific analytical method in Yusho diagnosis. The authors analysed 109 blood samples from people who had the 2002 annual inspection for Kanemi rice oil poisoning using both methods. The data from these methods were compared and proved to be almost the same in the so-called "PCB pattern" which has been adopted as a Yusho diagnosis index since early 1970s.
12872996	The miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE) is a type of class II transposon. We have isolated a new MITE, Pangrangja, from the species Oryza. Although Pangrangja elements are present in a number of Gramineae species, they are more prevalent in A genome Oryza species, Triticum, Aegilops, Hordeum, and Tripsacum. The Pangrangja has a 16 bp terminal inverted repeat (TIR) and conserved trinucleotides 5'-TTG-3' and 5'-AAA-3' at both ends. The TIR starts with 5'-CAGT-3', similar to the MITEs of the Emigrant family. The sequences between TIRs are very AT-rich and vary in length from 161 bp in A genome Oryza species to 513 bp in Hordeum vulgare. While the size and sequence of Pangrangia elements are conserved in the A genome Oryza species, there is some sequence variation in other plants. In an analysis of the mobile history of Oryza sativa, eight RESites (related to empty sites) were found and grouped into three types depending on the presence or absence of the conserved trinucleotides 5'-TTG-3' and 5'-AAA-3'. Since one of the RESites showed a perfect palindromic 22 bp sequence into which 180 bp of the Pangrangja element was inserted, the possible role of secondary structure of the palindromic sequences is discussed. We also suggest that as Pangrangja MITE-AFLP has been successful in many different Gramineae, Pangrangja elements may be useful in the genomic analysis of grasses.
12873409	We investigated long-term variations in dissolved chemical species in water sampled from the Sagami River and its tributaries, Japan. The samples were taken monthly from May 1993 to April 2000 at 28 sampling sites in the Sagami River system. In this paper, we concentrate on 17 sites in the upper catchment. Twenty-four major to trace elements (Li, Mg, Al, Ca, V, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Rb, Sr, Mo, Ag, Cd, Sb, Cs, Ba, W, Tl, Pb, U) were determined by using conventional Q-pole ICP-MS with direct nebulizalion. Water flux was measured from 1995. The data for most species were subjected to fast Fourier transformation (FFT) to extract dominant periodicities, their magnitudes, and their phases. Clear seasonal variations were observed for Al, V, As, Rb and Cs at some sampling points, especially in the tributaries. The seasonal variations may be due to either anthropogenic causes, such as irrigation or wastewater discharge, or natural causes, such as water temperature, pH, redox condition, water flux, or activity of microorganisms. We found no correlation with pH. Water temperature may not be a main controlling factor, although the seasonal variability would be correlated with it. Hydrologic factors may have only minor effects. We suggest that most of the seasonal variation might be correlated with the irrigation of rice paddies. It was difficult to identify all the causes of the seasonal variability. To investigate interannual trends, we used centered 12-month moving averages to eliminate seasonal variations. The water quality of the uppermost streams was generally constant, being controlled by springs on Mt. Fuji. However, in 1993 and 1998, V, As, Rb, Cs and U were depleted briefly, possibly by dilution by overflow from Lakes Kawaguchi and Yamanaka. Hydrologic factors may be more important for interannual variability than seasonal variability. Some heavy trace elements (Zn, Ni, Cd and Sb) showed very irregular variations with high concentration peaks. These elements were discharged from either factories or abandoned mine tailings.
12873712	Long-term effects of Cholestin (Monascus purpureus rice; red yeast rice) on serum lipids and severity of atherosclerosis were examined in rabbits fed for 200 days on a semi-purified diet containing 0.25% cholesterol. Serum total cholesterol was 25 and 40% lower, respectively, in rabbits fed 0.4 or 1.35 g/kg/day of Cholestin (Monascus purpureus rice; red yeast rice) compared to controls. This treatment also lowered serum LDL cholesterol. This 200-day treatment significantly reduced serum triglycerides and atherosclerotic index (ratio of non-HDL-cholesterol to HDL-cholesterol). Although similar reductions of total, LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides were observed, a parallel group of rabbits fed lovastatin (0.0024 g/kg/day) failed to reduce the index significantly. Apolipoprotein A(1) was increased and apolipoprotein B was reduced in all treatment groups. Severity of atherosclerosis was reduced significantly in all treatment groups. The sudanophilic area of involvement was 80.6% in controls, and reduced significantly; to 30.1% on the low dose of Cholestin (Monascus purpureus rice; red yeast rice), and 17.2% on the high dose. Lovastatin reduced severity of lesions by 89% (sudanophilia) and 84% (visual). Visual grading of lesion severity showed reduction by 38% and 68%.
12874370
12877451	Because sensitization to cow's milk is a common finding in children, the identification of safe alternative protein sources is important in the management of childhood allergy. To evaluate, in an animal model, the allergenicity of a novel formula based on hydrolyzed rice proteins. We conducted an experiment involving 130 guinea pigs, from 7 to 12 days old at the onset of the study. The animals were divided into 13 groups and were given, ad libitum, one of the following liquids to drink: (1) rice hydrolysate formula (RF), (2) a conventional cow's milk formula (CMF), or (3) water. After a 37-day sensitization period, a challenge was given, consisting of an intravenous injection of either isolated proteins or ultracentrifuged formulas (uCMF and uRF). Specific IgG antibodies to beta-lactoglobulin, casein, and whole rice protein were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. When animals fed CMF were challenged with beta-lactoglobulin, casein, or whole uCMF, they showed significantly more reactions than did those fed RF when challenged with the same proteins (P < 0.001). In the groups fed RF, no reaction was observed after challenge with uRF, and only 2 mild reactions occurred after challenge with rice protein. Very low levels of specific IgG antibodies to rice protein were noted in all the groups, including the RF-fed animals, and no significant differences were evident between groups. The findings suggest that this new formula based on hydrolyzed rice proteins has a very low sensitizing capability.
12877745	Dof proteins are a family of plant-specific transcription factors that contain a particular class of zinc-finger DNA-binding domain. Members of this family have been found to play diverse roles in gene regulation of processes restricted to the plants. The completed genome sequences of rice and Arabidopsis constitute a valuable resource for comparative genomic analyses, since they are representatives of the two major evolutionary lineages within the angiosperms. In this framework, the identification of phylogenetic relationships among Dof proteins in these species is a fundamental step to unravel functionality of new and yet uncharacterised genes belonging to this group. We identified 30 different Dof genes in the rice Oryza sativa genome and performed a phylogenetic analysis of a complete collection of the 36-reported Arabidopsis thaliana and the rice Dof transcription factors identified herein. This analysis led to a classification into four major clusters of orthologous genes and showed gene loss and duplication events in Arabidopsis and rice, that occurred before and after the last common ancestor of the two species. According to our analysis, the Dof gene family in angiosperms is organized in four major clusters of orthologous genes or subfamilies. The proposed clusters of orthology and their further analysis suggest the existence of monocot specific genes and invite to explore their functionality in relation to the distinct physiological characteristics of these evolutionary groups.
12881500	To study the regulation of ammonium uptake into rice roots, three ammonium transporter genes (OsAMT1;1, 1;2 and 1;3; Oryza sativa ammonium transporter) were isolated and examined. OsAMT1s belong to AMT1 family, containing 11 putative transmembrane-spanning domains. Southern blot analysis and screening of the rice genome database confirmed that with OsAMT1;1-1;3 the complete AMT1 family of rice had been isolated. Heterologous expression of OsAMT1s in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant 31019b showed that all three OsAMT1s exhibit ammonium transport activity. Northern blot analysis showed a distinct expression pattern for the three genes; more constitutive expression in shoots and roots for OsAMT1;1, root-specific and ammonium-inducible expression for OsAMT1;2, and root-specific and nitrogen-derepressible expression for OsAMT1;3. In situ mRNA detection revealed that OsAMT1;2 is expressed in the central cylinder and cell surface of root tips. This gene expression analysis revealed a distinct nitrogen-dependent regulation for AMTs in rice, differing from that in tomato or Arabidopsis:
12882270	A new cDNA (Os beta fruct2) encoding an acid beta-D-fructofuranosidase from rice has been cloned, sequenced and expressed in Pichia pastoris. The full-length cDNA is 2453 base pairs long and encodes a pre-pro-protein of 682 amino acids. The cDNA fragment coding for mature enzyme was sub-cloned into vector pPICZalphaA for extracellular expression in the methylotrophic yeast. The recombinant product was purified by Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose column and biochemically characterized. The enzyme could hydrolyze sucrose and raffinose. Molecular mass is 66 kDa. The activity optimum was at pH 4.8 and 40 degrees C.
12882278	A novel salt-tolerant, N2-fixing and phosphate-solubilizing, Gluconacetobacter sp. (PA12) tagged with gusA gene, colonized Porteresia coarctata (wild rice) and Pokkali (salt-tolerant variety) more intensively when compared to Ponni (salt-sensitive variety). This was confirmed using a colony-counting method.
12882299	Xylanase was produced by solid-state fermentation using Thermoascus aurantiacus. Maximum production (500 U g(-1) bagasse) was achieved on the sixth day of cultivation on solid sugarcane bagasse medium supplemented with 15% (v/w) rice bran extract. The fungal biomass, determined from its glucosamine content, reached 28 mg g(-1) on the 8th day of cultivation. The cell yield against O2 (Y(x/o) = 0.18 g(cell)/g(O2)) and maintenance coefficient (m0 = 0.013 g(O2)/g(cell)h) were determined with the low Y(x/o) value for T. aurantiacus agreeing with the calculated value.
12884045	The effect of silicon on organ growth and its mechanisms of action were studied in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari), oat (Avena sativa L. cv. Victory), and wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Daichino-Minori) seedlings grown in the dark. Applying silicon in the form of silicic acid to these seedlings via culture solution resulted in growth promotion of third (rice) or second (oat and wheat) leaves. The optimal concentration of silicon was 5-10 mM. No growth promotion was observed in early organs, such as coleoptiles or first leaves. In silicon-treated rice third leaves, the epidermal cell length increased, especially in the basal regions, without any effect on the number of cells, showing that silicon promoted cell elongation but not cell division. Silicon also increased the cell wall extensibility significantly in the basal regions of rice third leaves. These results indicate that silicon stimulates growth of rice and some other Poaceae leaves by increasing cell wall extensibility.
1288411	Using cellulase/hemicellulase complex of Sclerotium rolfsii UV-8 mutant and Saccharomyces cerevisiae for fermentation, the coupled saccharification/fermentation (CSF) of 15% AT-rice straw was carried out at 40 degrees C, pH 4.5 for the first 24 h and further incubation was performed at 30 degrees C for 72 h. Increasing the amount of cellulase activity from 3-12 IU FPA/g of substrate resulted in increased yields of ethanol from 1.5-3.6% in 96 h. It has been observed that the coupled system was advantageous over the two stage (separate hydrolysis/fermentation) system as it produced higher amounts of ethanol from cellulose (3.6% as compared to 2.3% ethanol from rice straw).
12885168	Chitinases, beta-1,3-glucanases, and ribosome-inactivating proteins are reported to have antifungal activity in plants. With the aim of producing fungus-resistant transgenic plants, we co-expressed a modified maize ribosome-inactivating protein gene, MOD1, and a rice basic chitinase gene, RCH10, in transgenic rice plants. A construct containing MOD1 and RCH10 under the control of the rice rbcS and Act1 promoters, respectively, was co-transformed with a plasmid containing the herbicide-resistance gene bar as a selection marker into rice by particle bombardment. Several transformants analyzed by genomic Southern-blot hybridization demonstrated integration of multiple copies of the foreign gene into rice chromosomes. Immunoblot experiments showed that MOD1 formed approximately 0.5% of the total soluble protein in transgenic leaves. RCH10 expression was examined using the native polyacrylamide-overlay gel method, and high RCH10 activity was observed in leaf tissues where endogenous RCH10 is not expressed. R1 plants were analyzed in a similar way, and the Southern-blot patterns and levels of transgene expression remained the same as in the parental line. Analysis of the response of R2 plants to three fungal pathogens of rice, Rhizoctonia solani, Bipolaris oryzae, and Magnaporthe grisea, indicated statistically significant symptom reduction only in the case of R. solani (sheath blight). The increased resistance co-segregated with herbicide tolerance, reflecting a correlation between the resistance phenotype and transgene expression.
12885708	Fish sauce and soy sauce have been suggested as food vehicles for iron fortification in Asia. NaFeEDTA is a potentially useful fortificant because it can be added to these condiments without causing precipitation during storage. The objectives were to evaluate iron absorption from NaFeEDTA-fortified fish sauce and soy sauce against a reference fortificant (FeSO(4)), to compare iron absorption from NaFeEDTA-fortified fish sauce and soy sauce, and to evaluate the influence of fish sauce and soy sauce per se on iron absorption. Five separate iron-absorption studies were made in adult women (10 women per study). Iron absorption was measured on the basis of erythrocyte incorporation of (57)Fe or (58)Fe 14 d after the intake of labeled meals of rice or rice and vegetables. Fish sauce or soy sauce (10 g) fortified with 5 mg Fe as NaFeEDTA or FeSO(4) was fed with selected meals. The results are presented as geometric means. Iron absorption from NaFeEDTA- and FeSO(4)-fortified fish sauce (3.3% and 3.1%, respectively) and soy sauce (6.1% and 5.6%, respectively) was not significantly different. No significant difference was observed when NaFeEDTA-fortified fish sauce and soy sauce were compared directly (6.7% and 7.9%, respectively). Soy sauce inhibited iron absorption from rice-based meals (8.5% without and 6.0% with soy sauce; P < 0.02), whereas fish sauce did not affect iron absorption significantly. The relatively high iron absorption from NaFeEDTA-fortified fish sauce and soy sauce and the acceptable organoleptic properties of NaFeEDTA indicate the potential usefulness of this iron fortificant in fish sauce and soy sauce fortification programs.
12885710	Fish sauce is consumed daily by a large proportion of the Vietnamese population and could therefore be a potentially useful food vehicle for iron-fortification programs. We evaluated the efficacy of iron-fortified fish sauce in improving the iron status of anemic women. In a randomized, double-masked study of 152 anemic (hemoglobin concentration of 81-119 g/L) women, a meal based on noodles or rice was served 6 d/wk with 10 mL fish sauce containing either 10 mg Fe as NaFeEDTA (iron-fortified group) or no added iron (control group). Concentrations of hemoglobin, serum ferritin (SF), and serum transferrin receptor (TfR) were measured at baseline and after 3 and 6 mo. After 6 mo, hemoglobin and SF concentrations were higher and TfR concentrations were lower in the iron-fortified group than in the control group [hemoglobin: 116.3 +/- 8.7 (+/- SD) compared with 107.6 +/- 11.0 g/L (P < 0.0001); SF: 30.9 (95% CI: 23.4, 40.6) compared with 14.6 (11.3, 19.0) micro g/L (P = 0.0002); TfR: 7.2 (6.4, 7.9) compared with 9.0 (8.1, 9.9) mg/L (P = 0.002)]. The prevalence of iron deficiency (SF < 12 micro g/L or TfR > 8.5 mg/L) and iron deficiency anemia (iron deficiency with hemoglobin < 120 g/L) was lower in the iron-fortified group than in the control group [32.8% compared with 62.5% (P = 0.0005) and 20.3% compared with 58.3% (P < 0.0001), respectively]. Regular consumption of iron-fortified fish sauce significantly reduced the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia in Vietnamese women during the 6-mo intervention. Fortifying fish sauce with iron by using a water-soluble, highly bioavailable compound (NaFeEDTA) is a promising strategy for combating iron deficiency anemia in Vietnam.
12886435	This study evaluated factors associated with dietary patterns in the Brazilian population based on the Living Standards Survey conducted in the Northeast and Southeast regions of the country. Multi-stage probability sampling was employed to select the households, and for the present analysis 5,121 adults aged 20 to 50 years were included. Pregnant women and individuals reporting chronic health conditions were excluded. Through principal component analysis, two major family dietary patterns were identified: a mixed pattern, in which all groups and foods have approximately the same factor loading, and a second pattern based main1y on rice and beans, which was called a traditional diet. Weight and height were measured in the households, and food intake was based on a 21-item semi-quantitative family questionnaire. The Northeast (as compared to the Southeast) was negatively associated with the mixed pattern. Body mass index was positively associated with the mixed pattern, whereas leisure physical activity and Black skin color were negatively associated with the mixed pattern. Schooling and income levels explained most of the dietary variance, but after adjusting for education and income, region of residence remained significantly associated and was the third most important explanatory variable.
12887592	Enhancer trapping has provided a powerful strategy for identifying novel genes and regulatory elements. In this study, we adopted an enhancer trap system, consisting of the GAL4/VP16-UAS elements with GUS as the reporter, to generate a trapping population of rice. Currently, 31 443 independent transformants were obtained from two cultivars using Agrobacterium-mediated T-DNA insertion. PCR tests and DNA blot hybridization showed that about 94% of the transformants contained T-DNA insertions. The transformants carried, on average, two copies of the T-DNA, and 42% of the transformants had single-copy insertions. Histochemical assays of approximately 1000 T0 plants revealed various patterns of the reporter gene expression, including expression in only one tissue, and simultaneously in two or more tissues. The expression pattern of the reporter gene in T1 families corresponded well with the T0 plants and segregated in a 3 : 1 Mendelian ratio in majority of the T1 families tested. The frequency of reporter gene expression in the enhancer trap lines was much higher than that in gene trap lines reported previously. Analysis of flanking sequences of T-DNA insertion sites from about 200 transformants showed that almost all the sequences had homology with the sequences in the rice genome databases. Morphologically conspicuous mutations were observed in about 7.5% of the 2679 T1 families that were field-tested, and segregation in more than one-third of the families fit the 3 : 1 ratio. It was concluded that GAL4/VP16-UAS elements provided a useful system for enhancer trap in rice.
12888688	A total of 220 tadpoles was captured in 6 areas and total 117 frogs, Rana nigromaculata, were collected in 11 areas in Korea. They were examined for their infecion status by the metacercariae of Fibricola seoulensis by peptic digestion technique and by histological observation with hematoxylin-eosin staining. This study was carried out from August 1983 to September 1984. Followings are the results. The tadpoles of R. nigromaculata were positive for the metacercariae from 3.3 percent to 100 percent by area. The number of metacercariae per infected tadpole ranged from 1 to 584, and the mean number per tadpole ranged from 7.6 to 221 by area. The metacercariae from 16 tadpoles were counted by the body portion. A great majority of the metacercariae was collected from abdominal cavity, 98.3 percent of 484 counted larvae. And 6(1.2 percent) larvae were from proximal tail and 2(0.4 percent) from trunk. Histological sections of tadpoles showed many metacercariae in abdominal cavity but none in other parts. The larvae were free in the spaces among intestinal loops or around primitive liver. A few larvae were in duct-like tissues near trunk wall. There was little infiltration of inflammatory cells. The metacercarial infection rates of frogs ranged from 0 percent to 100 percent by area. The larval burden was 1 to 470 by infected frogs, and mean number ranged from 1 to 175.6 by area. By above results, it is suggested that the cercariae of F. seoulensis may infect R. nigromaculata already in the stage of tadpole. Almost all of the metacercariae were concentrated in abdominal cavity of tadpoles. According to the infection status of frogs, this fluke is prevalent almost nation-widely in rice paddies in Korea.
12889638	Field experiments were carried out during 1996-97 at Gulawathi, Muthiani and Salarpur Villages, IARI Farm, New Delhi and NCPP Campus, Dadri to evaluate changes in soil characteristics and growth of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), mustard (Brassica juncea L.), lentil (Lence esculenta Moench.), rice (Oryza sativa L.) and maize (Zea mays L.) by varying amounts of flyash addition (up to 50t ha(-1)) in soils at sowing/transplanting time of crops. Flyash addition in areas adjoining NCPP Thermal Power Plant, Dadri, Ghaziabad, U.P. ranged from 5-12 t ha(-1)] yr(-1) in 1995-96. Shoot and root growth and yield of test crops at different locations after flyash incorporation resulted in beneficial effects of flyash addition in most cases. The silt dominant texture of flyash improved loamy sand to sandy loam textures of the surface soils at the farmers' fields. The increased growth in yield of crops with flyash incorporation was possibly due to modifications in soil moisture retention and transmission characteristics, bulk density, physico-chemical characters such as pH and EC and organic carbon content. The response of flyash addition in the soil on soil health and crop productivity needs to be evaluated on long-term sustainable aspects.
12889725	We studied the frequency and timing of abortion and the serum levels of 17beta-estradiol and progesterone in Korean native cows fed pine needles during pregnancy. Fifteen pregnant cows were randomly assigned to groups of 5. The control group was fed a concentrate and rice straw, and the other 2 groups were fed, in addition, either 1.3 or 2.7 kg (dry weight) of Korean pine needles daily, starting at an average of 91 d of gestation and continuing until 245 d of gestation. The health status of the dams and the viability of the fetuses were ascertained by rectal palpation and ultrasound scanning during pregnancy. Simultaneously, blood samples were collected for analysis of serum 17beta-estradiol and progesterone. Two abortions in mid-pregnancy (at 126 and 150 d of gestation) occurred in the group ingesting the higher daily amount of pine needles. Premature parturition occurred at 259 d of gestation in this group and at 241 and 252 d of gestation in the group ingesting the lower daily amount of pine needles. The serum 17beta-estradiol concentration was significantly higher (P < 0.05) at 4 mo of gestation and the serum progesterone level significantly lower (P < 0.05) at 8 mo of gestation in the group ingesting more pine needles daily than in either of the other 2 groups. These results suggest that the ingestion of pine needles may play a role in abortion in Korean native cows by increasing the serum 17beta-estradiol concentration and decreasing the serum progesterone concentration.
12890028	A novel type of cysteine proteinase inhibitor (SspC) has been recently recognized in Staphylococcus aureus (Massimi, I., Park, E., Rice, K., Muller-Esterl, W., Sauder, D.N., and McGavin, M.J. (2002) J Biol Chem 277: 41770-41777). In this paper we have identified homologous proteins encoded in the genome of S. aureus and other coagulase-negative Staphylococci. Collectively we refer to these proteins as staphostatins as they specifically inhibit cysteine proteinases (staphopains) from Staphylococcus spp. The primary structure of staphostatins seems to be unique, although they resemble cystatins in size (105-108 residues). Recombinant staphostatin A, a product of the scpB gene and staphostatin B (SspC) from S. aureus have been characterized in details. Similar to the cystatins, the staphostatins interact specifically with their target proteinases forming tight and stable non-covalent complexes, staphostatin A with staphopain A and staphostatin B with staphopain B. However, in contrast to the cystatins, each of which inhibits broad range of cathepsins, complex formation between staphostatin and staphopain appears to be exclusive, with no cross interaction observed. In addition, the activities of several tested cysteine proteinases of prokaryotic- and eukaryotic-origin were not affected by staphostatins. Such narrow specificity limited to staphopains is presumed to be required to protect staphylococcal cytoplasmic proteins from being degraded by prematurely activated/folded prostaphopains. This function is guaranteed through the unique co-expression of the secreted proteinase and the intracellular inhibitor from the same operon, and represents a unique mechanism of regulation of proteolytic activity in Gram-positive bacteria.
12890103	Paederus dermatitis develops when beetles of the genus Paederus (often called rove beetles) are crushed on the skin, releasing the vesicant pederin. These beetles are found in many tropical and subtropical habitats. We describe 156 patients who presented to a dermatology clinic in the Guilan province of northern Iran during a 6-month period (May-October 2001). The peak time of presentation was in September, and the face and neck were the most common sites of involvement. Clinically, the most common presentation comprised geographic erythematous plaques with micropustules. In three-quarters of patients, more than one lesion was present. Kissing lesions were seen in 5% of cases, and 15% of patients developed diffuse desquamation. The majority of patients resided within 1 km of rice fields and used fluorescent lighting at home. In half of the cases, another family member was also affected. Paederus dermatitis is a common skin condition in northern Iran. We believe that increased public awareness of this condition can decrease mucocutaneous exposure to pederin.
12890326	During 5,230 trapping nights, 672 small mammals were trapped in the areas where most hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) cases occur in Uruguay. Yellow pygmy rice rats (Oligoryzomys flavescens) were the only rodents that showed evidence of antibodies to hantavirus, with a seroprevalence of 2.6%. The rodents were trapped in all the explored environments, and most of the seropositive rodents were found in habitats frequented by humans. Nucleotide sequences were obtained from four HPS case-patients and four yellow pygmy rice rats of the M genome segment. Sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis showed that rodent-borne viruses and viruses from three HPS case-patients form a well-supported clade and share a 96.4% identity with the previously characterized Central Plata hantavirus. These results suggest that yellow pygmy rice rat (O. flavescens) may be the host for Central Plata, a hantavirus associated with HPS in the southern area of Uruguay.
12891039	This paper is the result of adult female mosquito and larval collection in U.S. Army Installations in Korea from 1979 to 1983. New Jersey light traps ere operated for ault collection from May to October. The primary concern of this surveillance is to determine when to recommend insecticide spraying for mosquito control in the Army areas. The 5th Preventive Medicine Unit have developed an "index" level of female mosquitoes in a light trap similar to other U.S.Army Agencies in other parts of the world. When 10 female mosquitoes are reached on two consecutive trap-night, or 5 known vector females are collected, fogging is recommended in the trap areas. Mosquito collections were conducted in 12 U.S. Army areas by operating 39 New Jersey light traps. Mosquitoes collected from the areas were identified to be 17 species comprising 3 genera. Anopheles sinensis(40%). Culex tritaeniorhyncus(31%), Aedes vexans nipponii(19%), and Culex pipiens pallens(10%) appeared to be the most common species in the area. The species, population density and monthly appearance of adult mosquitoes were found to be almost the same in the all provinces involved. And Japanese encephalitis vector mosquitoes, Culex tritaeniorhyncus, showed their seasonal fluctuation from July to September with a peak in August each year. 3. Larval habitats confirmed in the Army areas were categorized into 16 types as shown in Table The mosquito larvae collected in those habitats were identified to be 15 species representign 4 genera. Most breeding sites in the Army areas were those which are activated during the wet season. More mosquitoes were collected from the Kyungki province than from the other provinces. The reason for more collection of mosquitoes from military installations in the Kyungki provinces appears to be the geographic characteritics surrounded by rice fields, marshes and other stagnant water areas.
1289113
12891827	Gac fruit (Momordica cochinchinensis Spreng) is indigenous to Vietnam and other countries in Southeast Asia. Its seed pulp contains high concentrations of carotenoids, especially the provitamin A, beta-carotene. In northern Vietnam, gac fruits are seasonal and are mainly used in making a rice dish called xoi gac. The purpose of this study was to develop a method to collect and preserve gac fruit oil, to evaluate the nutritional composition of the oil, and to assess the acceptability of the gac oil by typical Vietnamese homemakers. One hundred women participated in training to learn how to prepare the fruits and operate the oil press. The women also participated in a survey of gac fruit use and their habitual use of animal fat and vegetable oil. Among all the participants in the training and surveys, 35 women actually produced oil from gac fruits grown in the village, using manual oil presses and locally available materials. The total carotene concentration in gac fruit oil was 5,700 micrograms/ml. The concentration of beta-carotene was 2,710 micrograms/ml. Sixty-nine percent of total fat was unsaturated, and 35% of that was polyunsaturated. The average daily consumption of gac fruit oil was estimated at 2 ml per person. The daily beta-carotene intake (from gac fruit oil) averaged approximately 5 mg per person. It was found that gac oil can be produced locally by village women using manual presses and locally available materials. The oil is a rich source of beta-carotene, vitamin E, and essential fatty acids. Although the beta-carotene concentration declines with time without a preservative or proper storage, it was still high after three months. The oil was readily accepted by the women and their children, and consumption of the oil increased the intake of beta-carotene and reduced the intake of lard.
12892477	Porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase activity on native starch granules is more accurately described as a function of surface area of the granules rather than of substrate concentration. The apparent K(m) of alpha-amylolysis of native starch from potato, maize, and rice expressed as a function of substrate concentration was largest for potato with a single value of V(max). However, the ratio of the slope of a Lineweaver-Burk plot to that of rice for enzymatic hydrolysis of native potato and maize starch were 7.78 and 2.58, respectively, which were very close to the ratio of surface area per mass of the two starch granules to that of rice. Therefore, the reciprocal of initial velocity was a linear function of the reciprocal of surface area for each starch granule. Surface area was calculated assuming the starch granules were spherical. The values obtained by this calculation were in good agreement with the value obtained by the photomicrographic method. By comparing enzymatic digestion of native maize granules to that of rice granules, it was concluded that the presence of pores in maize granules appeared to significantly affect overall rate of digestion after sufficient reaction time, but not at the very initial stage of hydrolysis.
12893964	We have found a 14 kbp double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) in many cultivars of japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) but not in any cultivars of indica rice. This dsRNA is an RNA replicon with plasmid-like properties and is proposed to be a novel dsRNA virus, Oryza sativa endornavirus (OSV). Reciprocal crosses between the OSV-carrier japonica variety (Nipponbare) and the OSV-free indica variety (IR 26 or Kasalath) were performed to investigate whether OSV can be transmitted to F1 hybrids. When IR 26 and Nipponbare were used, efficient transmission of OSV from ova (93%) and pollen (89%) was observed. When Kasalath and Nipponbare were used, the OSV transmission efficiency to F1 progeny was 68% from ova and 20% from pollen. The transmission of OSV to F2 progeny plants was also complicated, showing non-Mendelian inheritance. These results suggest that the dsRNA replicon (OSV) is unstable in indica rice plants.
12893965	MITE-AFLP markers were successfully used to study the genetic variation and species relationship in Oryza species. Analysis of 53 accessions of Oryza species with seven MITE-AFLP primer combinations detected a total of 250 polymorphic fragments. High polymorphism was detected within and between Oryza species. Species relationships were analyzed by the pattern of presence or absence of homologous fragments, because nucleotide sequences of the detected MITE-AFLP fragments revealed that the same fragments in different species shared very high sequence homology. The genetic distances (GDs) between species were higher than those within species and the GDs in O. sativa complex were higher than those in O. officinalis complex. The phylogenetic tree recognized two major groups at 62% genetic similarity; group I consists of all AA genome species of the O. sativa complex, and group II consists of BB-, CC-, EE- and BBCC genome species of the O. officinalis complex. Therefore, this study demonstrated that the MITE-AFLP technique provide a tool for studying the genetic variation and species relationship in Oryza species.
12894201
12895222	Fourteen dogs with known clinical hypersensitivity to soy and corn were maintained on a limited antigen duck and rice diet until cutaneous manifestations of pruritus were minimal (78 days). Sequential oral challenges with cornstarch, corn and soy were then performed. Subsequently, the dogs were fed a diet containing hydrolysed soy protein and cornstarch. Throughout the study period the dogs were examined for cutaneous manifestations of pruritus and, additionally, serum was collected for measurement of allergen-specific and total immunoglobulin (Ig)E concentrations. Intradermal testing with food antigens was performed prior to entry into the study and after 83 days. A statistically significant clinical improvement was measured between days 0 and 83. Significant pruritus was induced after oral challenge with cornstarch, corn and soy (P = 0.04, 0.002, 0.01, respectively) but not with the hydrolysed diet (P = 0.5). The positive predictive value of the skin test for soy and corn allergy was reduced after feeding a soy and corn free diet. Although increases in soy and corn-specific serum IgE concentrations were measured in individual dogs post challenge they were not statistically significant and could not be used to predict clinical hypersensitivity.
12897248	The function of the novel gene MSP1 (MULTIPLE SPOROCYTE), which controls early sporogenic development, was elucidated by characterizing a retrotransposon-tagged mutation of rice. The MSP1 gene encoded a Leu-rich repeat receptor-like protein kinase. The msp1 mutation gave rise to an excessive number of both male and female sporocytes. In addition, the formation of anther wall layers was disordered and the tapetum layer was lost completely. Although the mutation never affected homologous chromosome pairing and chiasma maintenance, the development of pollen mother cells was arrested at various stages of meiotic prophase I, which resulted in complete male sterility. Meanwhile, plural megaspore mother cells in a mutant ovule generated several megaspores, underwent gametogenesis, and produced germinable seeds when fertilized with wild-type pollen despite disorganized female gametophytes. In situ expression of MSP1 was detected in surrounding cells of male and female sporocytes and some flower tissues, but never in the sporocytes themselves. These results suggest that the MSP1 product plays crucial roles in restricting the number of cells entering into male and female sporogenesis and in initiating anther wall formation in rice.
12897251	Because retrotransposons are the major component of plant genomes, analysis of the target site selection of retrotransposons is important for understanding the structure and evolution of plant genomes. Here, we examined the target site specificity of the rice retrotransposon Tos17, which can be activated by tissue culture. We have produced 47,196 Tos17-induced insertion mutants of rice. This mutant population carries approximately 500,000 insertions. We analyzed >42,000 flanking sequences of newly transposed Tos17 copies from 4316 mutant lines. More than 20,000 unique loci were assigned on the rice genomic sequence. Analysis of these sequences showed that insertion events are three times more frequent in genic regions than in intergenic regions. Consistent with this result, Tos17 was shown to prefer gene-dense regions over centromeric heterochromatin regions. Analysis of insertion target sequences revealed a palindromic consensus sequence, ANGTT-TSD-AACNT, flanking the 5-bp target site duplication. Although insertion targets are distributed throughout the chromosomes, they tend to cluster, and 76% of the clusters are located in genic regions. The mechanisms of target site selection by Tos17, the utility of the mutant lines, and the knockout gene database are discussed. --The nucleotide sequence data were uploaded to the DDBJ, EMBL, and GenBank nucleotide sequence databases under accession numbers AG020727 to AG025611 and AG205093 to AG215049.
12897263	Here, we report the identification of Karma, a LINE-type retrotransposon of plants for which continuous retrotransposition was observed in consecutive generations. The transcription of Karma is activated in cultured cells of rice upon DNA hypomethylation. However, transcription is insufficient for retrotransposition, because no increase in the copy number was observed in cultured cells or in the first generation of plants regenerated from them. Despite that finding, copy number increase was detected in the next generation of regenerated plants as well as in later generations, suggesting that the post-transcriptional regulation of Karma retrotransposition is development dependent. Our results indicate that two different mechanisms, one transcriptional and the other developmental, control the mobilization of KARMA: In addition, unlike other known active plant retrotransposons, Karma is not subject to de novo methylation, and retrotransposition persists through several generations.
12897455	We have studied on allelopathy of plants and developed methods to identify the effective substances in root exudates, leaf leacheate, and volatile chemicals emitted from plants. We found traditional cover plants that show allelopathic activity are useful for weed control. It could eliminate the use of synthetic chemicals for this purpose. Allelopathy is a natural power of plants to protect themselves by producing natural organic chemicals. Some endemic plants in Asia, already known by farmers in the region, as either cover crops used in intercropping, hedgerow, or agroforestry, were found to possess strong allelopathic abilities. Our group identified several allelochemicals from these plants. These allelopathic cover crops, mostly leguminous plants, provide protein rich food, and grow easily without artificial fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides and fungicides. In this regards, these allelopathic cover crops could save food shortage in rural area, and are useful for environmental conservation. Screenings of allelopathic plants by specific bioassays and field tests have been conducted. Hairy vetch (Vicia villosa) and Velvet bean (Mucuna pruriens) are two promising species for the practical application of allelopathy. An amino acid, L-DOPA, unusual in plants, plays an important role as allelochemical in Velvet bean (Mucuna pruriens). Hairy vetch is the most promising cover plant for the weed control in orchard, vegetable and rice production and even for landscape amendment in abandoned field in Japan. We have isolated "cyanamide", a well known nitrogen fertilizer, from Hairy vetch. This is the first finding of naturally produced cyanamide in the world.
12897790	Tocotrienols are the primary form of vitamin E in seeds of most monocot plants, including cereals such as rice and wheat. As potent antioxidants, tocotrienols contribute to the nutritive value of cereal grains in human and livestock diets. cDNAs encoding homogentisic acid geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT), which catalyzes the committed step of tocotrienol biosynthesis, were isolated from barley, wheat and rice seeds. Transgenic expression of the barley HGGT in Arabidopsis thaliana leaves resulted in accumulation of tocotrienols, which were absent from leaves of nontransformed plants, and a 10- to 15-fold increase in total vitamin E antioxidants (tocotrienols plus tocopherols). Overexpression of the barley HGGT in corn seeds resulted in an increase in tocotrienol and tocopherol content of as much as six-fold. These results provide insight into the genetic basis for tocotrienol biosynthesis in plants and demonstrate the ability to enhance the antioxidant content of crops by introduction of an enzyme that redirects metabolic flux.
12897975	A full-length Ty3-like retrotransposon, named RIRE10, was identified on the long arm of chromosome 4 in rice genome. The internal region between two LTRs had another open reading frame in the region upstream of gag-pol sequence. The transcripts from LTR region were detected by Northern blot hybridization and RT-PCR. To assess the activity of RIRE10 in rice genome, the copy number of its internal region and long terminal repeat (LTR) domain were determined by dot blot analyses. Nearly 900 solo-LTR of the RIRE10 retrotransposon exist in rice genome, apart from those LTRs that flank 65 intact RIRE retrotransposons. Based on the experimental results, the retrotransposition of RIRE10 was speculated to be influenced by two factors: transcriptional activity of LTR region and homologous recombination resulting in solo-LTR.
12898021	The detection of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with UV-B resistance in rice should allow their practical application in breeding for such a complex trait, and may lead to the identification of gene characteristics and functions. Considerable variation in UV-B resistance exists within cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), but its detailed genetic control mechanism has not been well elucidated. We detected putative QTLs associated with the resistance to enhanced UV-B radiation in rice, using 98 BC(1)F(5) (backcross inbred lines; BILs) derived from a cross between Nipponbare (a resistant japonica rice variety) and Kasalath (a sensitive indica rice variety). We used 245 RFLP markers to construct a framework linkage map. BILs and both parents were grown under visible light with or without supplemental UV-B radiation in a growth chamber. In order to evaluate UV-B resistance, we used the relative fresh weight of aerial parts (RFW) and the relative chlorophyll content of leaf blades (RCC). The BIL population exhibited a wide range of variation in RFW and RCC. Using composite interval mapping with a LOD threshold of 2.9, three putative QTLs associated with both RFW and RCC were detected on chromosomes 1, 3 and 10. Nipponbare alleles at the QTLs on chromosome 1 and 10 increased the RFW and RCC, while the Kasalath allele at the QTL on chromosome 3 increased both traits. Furthermore, the existence of both QTLs on chromosomes 1 and 10 for UV-B resistance was confirmed using chromosome segment substitution lines. Plants with Kasalath alleles at the QTL on chromosome 10 were more sensitive to UV-B radiation than plants with them on chromosome 1. These results also provide the information not only for the improvement of UV-B resistance in rice though marker-associated selection, but also for the identification of UV-B resistance mechanisms by using near-isogenic lines.
12898024	Two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for seed dormancy (tentatively designated Sdr1) and heading date (Hd8) have been mapped to approximately the same region on chromosome 3 by interval mapping of backcross inbred lines derived from crosses between the rice cultivars Nipponbare (japonica) and Kasalath (indica). To clarify whether Sdr1 and Hd8 could be dissected genetically, we carried out fine-scale mapping with an advanced backcross progeny. We selected a BC(4)F(1) plant, in which a small chromosomal region including Sdr1 and Hd8, on the short arm of chromosome 3, remained heterozygous, whereas all the other chromosomal regions were homozygous for Nipponbare. Days-to-heading and seed germination rate in the BC(4)F(2) plants showed continuous variation. Ten BC(4)F(2) plants with recombination in the vicinity of Sdr1 and Hd8 were selected on the basis of the genotypes of the restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers flanking both QTLs. Genotypes of those plants for Sdr1 and Hd8 were determined by advanced progeny testing of BC(4)F(4) families. Sdr1 was mapped between the RFLP markers R10942 and C2045, and co-segregated with C1488. Hd8 was also mapped between C12534S and R10942. Six recombination events were detected between Sdr1 and Hd8. These results clearly demonstrate that Sdr1 and Hd8 were tightly linked. Nearly isogenic lines for Sdr1 and Hd8 were selected by marker-assisted selection.
12898219	Elongation factor subunit eEF1Bbeta (formerly EF-1beta in plants and EF-1delta in animals) was identified and cloned in a screen for proteins from pea that interact with a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK). CDKs are enzymes that regulate progression through meiotic and mitotic cell cycles in eukaryotes. eEF1Bbeta and the related protein eEF1Balpha (formerly EF-1beta' in plants and EF-1beta in animals and fungi) can catalyze GTP/GDP exchange on the G-protein eEF1A (formerly EF-1alpha in plants, animals and fungi) during the elongation phase of protein synthesis in eukaryotes. Recombinant Cdc2 and its native homologues from pea extracts associated both in vitro and in vivo with eEF1Bbeta. A Cdc2-cyclin B complex phosphorylated recombinant plant eEF1Bbetas, but not eEF1Balpha. These interactions between CDK and eEF1Bbeta prompted investigations into the in vivo consequences of this relationship. Expression of cDNAs encoding rice or pea eEF1Bbeta subunits failed to complement a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant deleted for the eEF1Balpha gene, as was previously observed for the human eEF1Bbeta. However, replacement of Thr91, the sole consensus CDK phosphorylation site in pea eEF1Bbeta, with alanine allowed the pea protein to substitute for eEF1Balpha function in vivo. In addition, this rescued strain was severely cold sensitive, and more sensitive to translational inhibitors than wild-type yeast. Taken together, these results suggest a physiological connection between the cyclin-dependent class of kinases and a translational elongation factor in mitotic cells, and provide the first in vivo evidence that an altered form of eEF1Bbeta can serve as the guanine nucleotide exchange factor for eEF1A.
12898326	Analysis by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed that Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) accumulated in a cyclic pattern from early to late stages of infection in tungro-susceptible variety, Taichung Native 1 (TN1), and resistant variety, Balimau Putih, singly infected with RTBV or co-infected with RTBV + Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV). These changes in virus accumulation resulted in differences in RTBV levels and incidence of infection. The virus levels were expressed relative to those of the susceptible variety and the incidence of infection was assessed at different weeks after inoculation. At a particular time point, RTBV levels in TN1 or Balimau Putih singly infected with RTBV were not significantly different from the virus level in plants co-infected with RTBV + RTSV. The relative RTBV levels in Balimau Putih either singly infected with RTBV or co-infected with RTBV + RTSV were significantly lower than those in TN1. The incidence of RTBV infection varied at different times in Balimau Putih but not in TN1, and to determine the actual infection, the number of plants that became infected at least once anytime during the 4 wk observation period was considered. Considering the changes in RTBV accumulation, new parameters for analyzing RTBV resistance were established. Based on these parameters, Balimau Putih was characterized having resistance to virus accumulation although the actual incidence of infection was >75%.
12902377	The use of DNA sequence-based comparative genomics for evolutionary studies and for transferring information from model species to crop species has revolutionized molecular genetics and crop improvement strategies. This study compared 4485 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) that were physically mapped in wheat chromosome bins, to the public rice genome sequence data from 2251 ordered BAC/PAC clones using BLAST. A rice genome view of homologous wheat genome locations based on comparative sequence analysis revealed numerous chromosomal rearrangements that will significantly complicate the use of rice as a model for cross-species transfer of information in nonconserved regions.
12902723	Acarid mites were isolated from samples collected in Seoul during the period of October 1975 to August 1978. Samples consisted of stored foods such as rice, flour, sugar, dried fishes, dusts of houses and freight offices. The identified mites were classified into 12 species belonging to 12 genera, 5 families as following lists, of which 4 species (*) are newly recorded in Korea. Family Acaridae Ewing and Nesbitt, 1942 1. Tyrophagus putrescentiae (Schrank, 1781) 2. Acarus siro Linnaeus, 1758 *3. Aleuroglyphus ovatus Troupeau, 1879 4. Suidasia nesbitti Hughes, 1948 5. Rhizoglyphus echinopus (Fumouze and Robin, 1868) 6. Caloglyphus berlesei (Michael, 1903) 7. Lardoglyphus konoi (Sasa and Asanuma, 1951) Family Carpoglyphidae Oudemans, 1972 8. Carpoglyphus lactis Linnaeus, 1927 Family Glyphagidae Berlese, 1887 9. Glycyphagus destructor (Schrank, 1781) *10. Gohieria fusca (Oudemans, 1903) Family Chortoglyphidae Berlese, 1897 *11. Chortoglyphus arcuatus (Troupeau, 1879) Family Pyroglyphidae Cunliffe, 1958 *12. Euroglyphus maynei (Cooremant 1950)
12904206	The Arabidopsis WUSCHEL (WUS) protein, which plays an important role in the specification of the stem cells in the shoot apical meristem (SAM), contains an 'atypical' homeodomain (HD) with extra residues in its loop and turn regions. We speculated that a WUS-type atypical HD protein might also be involved in the specification and maintenance of the root apical meristem (RAM) stem cells of rice. To investigate this possibility, we isolated and characterized a rice WUS-type homeobox gene designated quiescent-center-specific homeobox (QHB) gene. Using transformants carrying the QHB promoter-GUS and in situ hybridization, we found that QHB was specifically expressed in the central cells of a quiescent center (QC) of the root. During embryogenesis and crown root formation, QHB expression was observed prior to the morphological differentiation of the root. However, we detected different QHB expression patterns in the process of the RAM development, specifically between radicle and crown root formation, suggesting that the cell-fate determination of the QC may be controlled by different mechanisms. We also produced transformants that overexpress QHB or Arabidopsis WUS. These transformants did not form crown roots, but developed multiple shoots from ectopic SAMs with malformed leaves. On the basis of these observations, we propose that the WUS-type homeobox gene is involved in the specification and maintenance of the stem cells (QC cells) in the RAM, by a mechanism similar to that for WUS in the SAM.
12904565	The Pseudomonas stutzeri strain A1501 (formerly known as Alcaligenes faecalis) fixes nitrogen under microaerobic conditions in the free-living state and colonizes rice endophytically. The authors characterized a region in strain A1501, corresponding to most of the nif genes and the rnf genes, involved in electron transport to nitrogenase in Rhodobacter capsulatus. The region contained three groups of genes arranged in the same order as in Azotobacter vinelandii: (1) nifB fdx ORF3 nifQ ORF5 ORF6; (2) nifLA-rnfABCDGEF-nifY2/nafY; (3) ORF13 ORF12-nifHDK-nifTY ORF1 ORF2-nifEN. Unlike in A. vinelandii, where these genes are not contiguous on the chromosome, but broken into two regions of the genome, the genes characterized here in P. stutzeri are contiguous and present on a 30 kb region in the genome of this organism. Insertion mutagenesis confirmed that most of the nif and the rnf genes in A1501 were essential for nitrogen fixation. Using lacZ fusions it was found that nif and rnf gene expression was under the control of ntrBC, nifLA and rpoN and that the rnf gene products were involved in the regulation of the nitrogen fixation process.
12904864	Using comparative genetics, genes, repetitive DNA sequences and chromosomes were studied in the Oryzeae in order to more fully exploit the rice genome sequence data. Of particular focus was Zizania palustris L., n = 15, commonly known as American wildrice. Previous work has shown that rice chromosomes 1, 4 and 9 are duplicated in wildrice. The Adh1 and Adh2 genes were sequenced and, based on phylogenetic analyses, found to be duplicated in wildrice. The majority of the sequence diversity in the Adh sequences was in intron 3, in which were found several MITE insertions. Cytological and molecular approaches were used to analyze the evolution of rDNA and centromeric repetitive sequences in the Oryzeae. In wildrice, copies of the 5S rDNA monomer were found at two loci on two different chromosomes near the centromeres, as in rice. One nucleolar organizer region (NOR) locus was found adjacent to the telomere, as in rice. RCS1, a middle repetitive sequence in rice, was present in all of the centromeres of wildrice. RCS2/CentO, the highly repetitive component of Oryza sativa L. centromeres, was conserved in eight of the Oryza species examined, but was not found in wildrice. Three other middle repetitive centromeric sequences (RCH1, RCH2/CentO and RCH3) were also examined and found to have variable evolutionary patterns between species of Oryza and Zizania.
12906334	Numerous dietary supplements are known to modulate cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated metabolism and subsequently alter drug toxicity or efficacy in animals and humans. In the present study we investigated the effect of varying amounts of sodium intake on renal function and the metabolic activity of the hepatic CYP3A2 and CYP2C11 isoforms. Rats were maintained on standard rodent chow or a low-salt rice diet. Within each of these groups rats received either a single intraperitoneal injection of furosemide to initiate salt depletion, or saline. Additional groups included salt supplementation of 500 mg/300 g body weight/day and 1.25 g/300 g body weight/day of sodium chloride solution. Rats receiving the low-salt diet, both with and without a concomitant furosemide administration, had a significant reduction in creatinine clearance without changes in serum creatinine. In addition, urine flow rate was markedly reduced in rats maintained on the low-salt diet. Western blot analysis indicated that neither sodium supplementation nor deprivation altered hepatic microsomal CYP3A2 levels; however, hepatic CYP2C11 levels significantly increased in rats receiving the largest sodium supplement. In vitro metabolic activity of CYP3A2 was unchanged as compared with controls. Activity of CYP2C11 was significantly reduced in both rat groups receiving additional sodium supplements. Acute manipulation of daily sodium intake does alter renal function and specific hepatic CYP isoforms and should be considered when using these rat models.
12906862	We have developed an automated, high-throughput fingerprinting technique for large genomic DNA fragments suitable for the construction of physical maps of large genomes. In the technique described here, BAC DNA is isolated in a 96-well plate format and simultaneously digested with four 6-bp-recognizing restriction endonucleases that generate 3' recessed ends and one 4-bp-recognizing restriction endonuclease that generates a blunt end. Each of the four recessed 3' ends is labeled with a different fluorescent dye, and restriction fragments are sized on a capillary DNA analyzer. The resulting fingerprints are edited with a fingerprint-editing computer program and contigs are assembled with the FPC computer program. The technique was evaluated by repeated fingerprinting of several BACs included as controls in plates during routine fingerprinting of a BAC library and by reconstruction of contigs of rice BAC clones with known positions on rice chromosome 10.
12908292	The high-pressure carbon monoxide (HiPco) process, developed at Rice University, has been reported to produce single-walled carbon nanotubes from gas-phase reactions of iron carbonyl in carbon monoxide at high pressures (10-100 atm). Computational modeling is used here to develop an understanding of the HiPco process. A detailed kinetic model of the HiPco process that includes of the precursor, decomposition metal cluster formation and growth, and carbon nanotube growth was developed in the previous article (Part I). Decomposition of precursor molecules is necessary to initiate metal cluster formation. The metal clusters serve as catalysts for carbon nanotube growth. The diameter of metal clusters and number of atoms in these clusters are some of the essential information for predicting carbon nanotube formation and growth, which is then modeled by the Boudouard reaction with metal catalysts. Based on the detailed model simulations, a reduced kinetic model was also developed in Part I for use in reactor-scale flowfield calculations. Here this reduced kinetic model is integrated with a two-dimensional axisymmetric reactor flow model to predict reactor performance. Carbon nanotube growth is examined with respect to several process variables (peripheral jet temperature, reactor pressure, and Fe(CO)5 concentration) with the use of the axisymmetric model, and the computed results are compared with existing experimental data. The model yields most of the qualitative trends observed in the experiments and helps to understanding the fundamental processes in HiPco carbon nanotube production.
12908913	A study was undertaken to identify the major larval habitats of the Anopheles gambiae (Giles) complex in rural Gambia. Mosquito larvae and pupae were sampled along transects and in specific habitats in the central region of the country during the rainy seasons of 1996 and 1997. The sampling showed that the major breeding sites were located on the flooded alluvial soils bordering the river. The largest numbers of larvae were found during September, one month after the peak rains. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of specimens showed that Anopheles melas (Theobald) was the dominant species in the flooded areas (81.5%), followed by A. gambiae sensu stricto (Giles) (18.0%) and A. arabiensis (Patton) (0.5%). By sampling in specific habitats it was evident that A. arabiensis was mainly breeding in rain-fed rice fields along the edge of the alluvial soils. Anopheles melas and A. gambiae s.s. often coexisted but whereas A. melas were found in water with a salinity of up to 72% sea water (25.2 g NaCl l(-1)), A. gambiae s.s. only occurred in water with up to 30% sea water (10.5 g NaCl l(-1)). Anopheles melas larvae were found in association with plant communities dominated by sedges and grasses (Eleocharis sp., Paspalum sp., Sporobolus sp.) and sea-purslane Sesuvium portulacastrum (L.) and the presence of cattle hoof prints, whereas A. gambiae s.s. larvae mainly occurred in association with Paspalum sp. and Eleocharis sp. The study showed that even during the peak rainy season, breeding of the A. gambiae complex is almost entirely restricted to the extensive alluvial areas along the river.
12909093	The insoluble organic fraction (humin-like material, HLM) from rice hull-dairy cattle compost is well converted into water soluble HLM-sulphonate by reaction in liquid SO3. Microanalytical, potentiometric, molecular weight, and NMR data are consistent with a highly homogeneous polymeric arylsulphonate having 4000 Da MW, 1.3 sulphonic groups per aromatic ring and significant content of carboxylic and phenolic groups. By comparison with structure-property relationships for commercial lignosulphonates derived from the pulp and paper industry, the above arylsulphonate is likely to be a candidate at a variety of applications in the chemical industry and in agriculture. Therefore, sulphonation is a means for upgrading composts HLM to the same uses as for commercial lignosulphonates.
12909345	We isolated a 918 bp long full-length rice HMGB1 cDNA, which has an open reading frame of 471 bp encoding 157 amino acids, with a central domain of high sequence similarity to the HMG-box domain of other plant HMGB1 proteins. RNA gel blot analysis indicated that rice HMGB1 gene is constitutively expressed in various tissues and organs. Southern hybridization and sequence analyses suggested that a single copy of the HMGB1 gene composed of seven exons and six introns exists in rice. We have also cloned a 1755 bp long 5' flanking region of the rice HMGB1 gene, which can be regarded as its promoter. 5' deletion analysis of this promoter indicated that positive cis-elements residing between -1400 and -1115 are important to enhance quantitative expression, whereas negative cis-elements between -1755 and -1400 and between -1115 and -351 inhibit expression.
12911037	The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of proteins is a group of functionally diverse transcription factors found in both plants and animals. These proteins evolved early in eukaryotic cells before the split of animals and plants, but appear to function in 'plant-specific' or 'animal-specific' processes. In animals bHLH proteins are involved in regulation of a wide variety of essential developmental processes. On the contrary, bHLH proteins have not been extensively studied in plants. Those that have been characterized function in anthocyanin biosynthesis, phytochrome signaling, globulin expression, fruit dehiscence, carpel and epidermal development. We have identified 118 different bHLH genes in the completely sequenced Arabidopsis thaliana genome and 131 bHLH genes in the rice genome. Here we report a phylogenetic analysis of these genes, including 46 genes from other plant species and a classification of these proteins into 15 distinct plant clades. Results imply a polyphyletic origin for the plant bHLH proteins related only by their bHLH DNA binding motif. We suggest that plant bHLH proteins are under weaker selective constraints than their animal counterparts and that lineage specific expansions and subfunctionalization have fashioned regulatory proteins for plant specific functions.
12911329	A calcium (Ca2+)/calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein kinase (CBK) from tobacco (Nicotiana tabaccum), NtCBK2, has been characterized molecularly and biochemically. NtCBK2 has all 11 conserved subdomains of the kinase-catalytic domain and a CaM-binding site as shown by other kinases, including Ca2+-dependent protein kinase and chimaeric Ca2+/CaM-dependent protein kinases. However, this kinase does not contain an EF-hand motif for Ca2+ binding, and its activity was not regulated by Ca2+. Whereas NtCBK2 phosphorylated both itself and other substrates, such as histone IIIS and syntide-2, in a Ca2+/CaM-independent manner, as also shown by OsCBK, a CaM-binding protein kinase from rice (Oryza sativa), the kinase activity of NtCBK2 was greatly stimulated by Ca2+/CaM, whereas that of OsCBK was not. By molecular dissection analyses, the CaM-binding domain of NtCBK2 has been localized in a stretch of 30 amino acid residues at residue positions 431-460 as a 1-5-10 protein motif. Three tobacco CaM isoforms (NtCaM1, NtCaM3 and NtCaM13) used in the present study have been shown to bind to NtCBK2, but with different dissociation constants (K(d)s), as follows: NtCaM1, 55.7 nM; NtCaM3, 25.4 nM; and NtCaM13, 19.8 nM, indicating that NtCBK2 has a higher affinity for NtCaM3 and NtCaM13 than for NtCaM1. The enzymic activity of NtCBK2 was also modulated differently by various CaM isoforms. Whereas the phosphorylation activity of NtCBK2 was shown by assay to be enhanced only approximately 2-3-fold by the presence of NtCaM1, the activity could be amplified up to 8-9-fold by NtCaM3 or 10-11-fold by NtCaM13, suggesting that NtCaM3 and NtCaM13 are better activators than NtCaM1 for NtCBK2.
12911481	To evaluate the prevalence of overweight and obesity among Iranian adolescents and their relationship with modifiable environmental factors. The subjects of the present study were 1000 girls and 1000 boys, aged between 11 and 18 years selected by multistage random sampling, their parents (n = 2000) and their school staff (n = 500 subjects) in urban and rural areas of two provinces in Iran. Data concerning body mass index (BMI), nutrition and the physical activity of the subjects were analyzed by SPSSV10/Win software. The prevalence of 85th percentile </= body mass index (BMI) < 95th percentile and BMI > 95th percentile in girls was significantly higher than boys (10.7 +/- 1.1 and 2.9 +/- 0.1%vs 7.4 +/- 0.9 and 1.9 +/- 0.1%, respectively; P < 0.05). The mean BMI value was significantly different between urban and rural areas (25.4 +/- 5.2 vs 23.2 +/- 7.1 kg/m2, respectively; P < 0.05). A BMI> 85th percentile was more prevalent in families with an average income than in high-income families (9.3 +/- 1.7 vs 7.2 +/- 1.4%, respectively; P < 0.05) and in those with lower-educated mothers (9.2 +/- 2.1 vs 11.5 +/- 2.4 years of mothers education, respectively). The mean total energy intake was not different between overweight or obese and normal-weight subjects (1825 +/- 90 vs 1815 +/- 85 kCal, respectively; P > 0.05), but the percentage of energy derived from carbo-hydrates was significantly higher in the former group compared with the latter (69.4 vs 63.2%, respectively; P < 0.05). Regular extracurricular sports activities were significantly lower and the time spent watching tele-vision was significantly higher in overweight or obese than non-obese subjects (time spent watching telelvision: 300 +/- 20 vs 240 +/- 30 min/day, P < 0.05). A significant linear association was shown between the frequency of consumption of rice, bread, pasta, fast foods and fat/salty snacks and BMI (beta = 0.05-0.06; P < 0.05). A significant correlation was shown between BMI percentiles and serum triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol and systolic blood pressure (Pearson's r = 0.38, -0.32 and 0.47, respectively). Enhanced efforts to prevent and control overweight from childhood is a critical national priority, even in developing countries. To be successful, social, cultural and economic influences should be considered.
12913143	The rice (Oryza sativa) lesion-mimic mutants, cell death and resistance (cdr), show spontaneous cell death on the entire leaf and exhibited significant resistance to the rice blast fungus. Our previous studies showed that CDR1 and CDR2 genes negatively regulated the phosphorylation steps leading to the activation of NADPH oxidase, which is associated with oxidative burst. To identify novel factors involved in the phosphorylation steps, the phosphorylation level of total proteins was compared between cdr mutants and wild type using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Here, we show that the phosphorylation level of four proteins in cdr1 was increased as compared with the wild type after calyculin A treatment. Partial amino acid sequences revealed that one of the four proteins is homologous to prohibitin (PHB), which has been shown to be associated with senescence and cell death and to function as a chaperone in the assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex in yeast and mammals. Analysis of green fluorescent protein fusions indicated that rice PHB (OsPHB1) was targeted to mitochondria as found in yeast and mammals, suggesting a possibility that PHB is involved in defense response and/or programmed cell death through the mitochondrial function.
12913289	Protoporphyrinogen oxidase (Protox) is the last shared enzyme of the porphyrin pathway. As a continuation of our previous work in which the transgenic rice plants expressing the Bacillus subtilis Protox in the cytoplasm or the plastid showed resistance to diphenyl ether herbicide, this study was undertaken to identify the effects of tertapyrrole biosynthesis in these transgenic rice plants. The transgenic plants either targeted into plastids or expressed in cytoplasm showed higher Protox activity than wild-type plants did. Photosynthetic activity, measured as a quantum yield of photosystem II, was slightly higher in transgenic plants than in wild-type plants, but chlorophyll contents were not significantly different between transgenic and wild-type plants. As for porphyrin biosynthesis, both cytoplasm-expressed and plastid-targeted transgenic plants showed increased synthesis of aminolevulinic acid, Mg-Proto IX, and protoheme in comparison to wild-type plants whereas synthesis of protoporphyrin IX was similar for wild-type and transgenic plants. These results indicate that either cytoplasm or plastid expression of B. subtilis Protox in rice can upregulate the porphyrin pathway leading to increase in photosynthetic efficiency in plants.
12913498	This is a case report of intestinal eosinophilic granuloma caused by Ascaris ova and worm which is supposed to be rare in Korea. CASE: A 23 year old healthy female reached Pusan Sanitation Hospital with complaints of high fever and abdominal pain on December 3 in 1966. Examination: Her temperature was 99.6'F. Pulse 80. Abdominal palpation showed muscle rigidity and tenderness. On the right side of the abdomen diagnosis due to ruptured appendix was made, and a laparotomy was performed the same day. OPERATION: Intestinal perforation by a Ascaris worm in the caecum about 7 cm from the ileo-caecal junction was also found. The worm was liquefied already. The intestine was edematous. Numerous rice sized nodules were seen on the intestine. The omentum was markdly inflammed and was adhered with a fist size mass. The mass and appendix were also resected in order to do a histological study. PATHOLOGY: Two kinds of tissues were examined : one a mesenteric mass, the other lymph node. MICROSCOPICALLY: it showed intensive and entirely necrotic tissue in which numerous parasitic ova were surrounded by granulomatous inflammatory cells with eosinophiles. The parasitic ova were degenerative and partialy necrotic although they had three layers of egg shell which are identified with Ascaris ova.
12915219	Human milk contains several biologically active proteins that benefit the breast-fed infant. In order to survive in the gastrointestinal tract, these proteins need to be protected against proteolysis. Since human milk contains relatively high concentrations of alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT), we have expressed recombinant AAT in rice to explore the possibility of supplementing infant formula with this protein. The stability of recombinant AAT was examined by biochemical and functional assays, such as SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, ELISA, elastase and trypsin inhibition, following exposure to heat, low pH, and in vitro digestion, conducted in both phosphate buffered saline and infant formula. Native AAT is resistant to acidic environments down to pH 2 for 1 h and can withstand in vitro digestion modeled after conditions in the infant gut. Recombinant AAT is nearly as resistant as the native form in buffer, and is equally resilient in formula. Heat treatments (60 degrees C for 15 min, 72 degrees C for 20 sec, 85 degrees C for 3 min, and 137 degrees C for 20 sec) revealed that recombinant AAT is not as stable as native AAT in buffer, particularly at higher temperatures. While significantly less recombinant AAT is detected by ELISA after heating in formula, addition of bile extract can restore epitopes resulting in higher concentrations, suggesting protein aggregation that may not affect AAT activity. This study shows that recombinant AAT may survive the conditions of the infant stomach and duodenum and affect protein digestion in the infant small intestine.
12915486	This study discusses three software tools, the first two aid in integrating sequence with an FPC physical map and the third automatically selects a minimal tiling path given genomic draft sequence and BAC end sequences. The first tool, FSD (FPC Simulated Digest), takes a sequenced clone and adds it back to the map based on a fingerprint generated by an in silico digest of the clone. This allows verification of sequenced clone positions and the integration of sequenced clones that were not originally part of the FPC map. The second tool, BSS (Blast Some Sequence), takes a query sequence and positions it on the map based on sequence associated with the clones in the map. BSS has multiple uses as follows: (1) When the query is a file of marker sequences, they can be added as electronic markers. (2) When the query is draft sequence, the results of BSS can be used to close gaps in a sequenced clone or the physical map. (3) When the query is a sequenced clone and the target is BAC end sequences, one may select the next clone for sequencing using both sequence comparison results and map location. (4) When the query is whole-genome draft sequence and the target is BAC end sequences, the results can be used to select many clones for a minimal tiling path at once. The third tool, pickMTP, automates the majority of this last usage of BSS. Results are presented using the rice FPC map, BAC end sequences, and whole-genome shotgun from Syngenta.
12916211	Excess application with the poor efficiency of fertilizers is one of the major problems confronting the sustainable agricultural development. Whereas, loss of N and P nutrients from farmlands to surface waters is considered as one of the major sources inducing eutrophication. In order to work out a minimum fertilizer application rate for both keeping conventional yield and reducing nutrient loading of non point source pollution, an experiment of formulated fertilization scheme on rice at different rates and nutrient ratios by incorporating the soil supply potential was conducted in a paddy soil Wunitu in Kunshan City, Suzhou. The soil nutrient can supply a yield at 6.75 t/hm2 at least for one cropping season. Among the fertilization treatments, a maximum yield of 9.79 t/hm2 was obtained at fertilization (N + P) rate of 300 kg/hm2kg N and P at a ratio of N to P being 3:2 or 1:1. However, with much lower fertilization (N + P) rate at 240 kg/hm2 with the same ratio a high yield of 9.69 t/hm2 was reached. The fertilizer efficiency of the later was 3 times as that of the former rate. Thus, a economical and environmentally sound mode of fertilization in such paddy soils as total N and P 240 kg/hm2, with N:P:Kratio being 3:2:0 or 1:1:0 was developed. Further study would be directed to a innovation of combination of reducing fertilization rate with rotated fertilization for alternative crops.
12916214	Field experiment on uptake and accumulation of Cd, Cu and Se in grains by 57 rice cultivars grown on a single Wuzhatu (a black heavy soil) in Jiangsu Province were conducted. The grain concentrations of Cd, Cu and Se varied in the range of 0.099 +/- 0.039, 4.86 +/- 2.595, 0.035 +/- 0.007 mg/kg respectively, demonstrating remarkable inter-species difference in heavy metal accumulation in rice grains. Cd uptake and accumulation in grains followed that of Cu by the studied cultivars. However, high Se uptake and accumulation tended to suppress Cu and Cd uptake and accumulation in grains. By calculation using the RfD values recommended by USEPA and WHO respectively, human health risk was shown to be possible from consuming the rice grains from these varieties by a Chinese diet. The Cd concentration of 92% of the varieties was found over the permissible limit recommended by USEPA. Thus, attention must be paid to extensive cultivation of high Cd accumulation cultivars of rice in polluted rice soils. For grain accumulation of Se was usually associated with low Cu and Cd accumulation, rice breeding with improvement of rice Se level would be possible for production of high quality of rice.
12916743	The aim of the present paper is to summarize the history of the Yusho incidence that occurred in the western part of Japan in 1968. A strange disease was reported in October 1968. This strange disease was characterized by acne-like eruptions, pigmentation of the skin, and eye discharge, and it was named Yusho (oil disease). Through systematic epidemiological studies based on observation of initial case series, and extensive efforts to clarify causal agents by the Study Group for Yusho, it was concluded that Yusho was caused by ingestion of rice oil contaminated with PCBs and PCDFs. As of now, more than 1,800 patients, have been registered as having Yusho and around 300 are deceased. Clinical observation showed that typical symptoms of Yusho have decreased, even general fatigue, headache and numbness of extremities have still been complained by patients. No effective treatment has been found so far. Careful and systematic observation for Yusho patients and medical care services should be continued for a further understanding of Yusho.
1291678
12919480	Transgenic plants expressing resistance to herbivorous insects may represent a safe and sustainable pest control alternative if they do not interfere with the natural enemies of target pests. Here we examined interactions between oryzacystatin I (OCI), a proteinase inhibitor from rice genetically engineered into potato (Solanum tuberosum cv. Kennebec, line K52) to increase resistance to insect herbivory, and the insect predator Perillus bioculatus. This stinkbug is a relatively specialized predator of caterpillars and leaf-beetle larvae, and may also include plant sap in its predominantly carnivorous diet. One of its preferred prey is Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata), a major target of insect resistance development for potato field crops. Gelatin/sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) confirmed that a major fraction of proteinase (gelatinase) activity in P. bioculatus extracts is OCI-sensitive. Among five gelatinolytic bands detected, the slowest-moving one (proteinase I) was inhibited strongly by purified OCI expressed in Escherichia coli or by OCI-transgenic potato extracts, while three other proteinases were partly sensitive to these treatments. There was also evidence of slight inhibition of proteinase I by untransformed potato foliage, suggesting the presence of a natural inhibitor related to OCI at low level in potato foliage. Interestingly, only about 50% of the maximum potential activity of proteinase I was recovered in extracts of P. bioculatus feeding on L. decemlineata larval prey on a diet of OCI-potato foliage, indicating that the predator was sensitive to OCI in the midgut of its prey. However, P. bioculatus on OCI-prey survived, grew and developed normally, indicating ability to compensate prey-mediated exposure to the OCI inhibitor. Confinement of P. bioculatus to potato foliage provided no evidence that potato plant-derived nutrition is a viable alternative to predation, restriction to potato foliage in fact being inferior to free water for short-term survival of nonfeeding first-instar larvae. These results support the view that OCI, an effective inhibitor of a substantial fraction of digestive enzymatic potential in P. bioculatus, should not interfere with its predation potential when expressed in potato plants fed to its prey at a maximum level of approximately 0.8% of total soluble proteins in mature foliage.
12919481	We observed recently that the rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor, oryzacystatin I (OCI) expressed in transgenic potato does not affect growth and development of the two-spotted stinkbug predator (Perillus bioculatus) via its herbivorous prey feeding on the plant. Here we monitored the inhibitory activity of recombinant OCI along this potato --> herbivore --> predator continuum, to determine if the absence of effect was associated with a digestive compensatory response of the predator following inhibition of its proteinases by the recombinant cystatin. After confirming that OCI is present in the plant, and ingested in an active form by potato beetle larvae, quantitative and electrophoretic assays allowed us to determine that the recombinant cystatin (representing about 0.8% of total soluble proteins in leaves) was entirely bound to a approximately 30-kDa target proteinase in the prey's midgut, forming a sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)-stable complex detected on immunoblots with an anti-OCI polyclonal antibody. Despite the apparent absence of free, residual OCI in the beetle's midgut, digestive protease activity in the predator, known to include OCI-sensitive activity, was altered negatively when the prey was fed the modified plant. This inhibitory process at the third trophic level was accompanied by a compensatory response in the predator, by which serine-type proteinases were synthesized de novo. Overall, our data suggest that the affinity between OCI and the predator's OCI-sensitive proteinases is: (i) as strong as (or stronger than) the affinity between OCI and the potato beetle 30-kDa-sensitive proteinase; and (ii) stronger than the affinity between these enzymes and the plant endogenous homologue of OCI, potato multicystatin, induced in the plant by potato beetle feeding. Our results also show that predatory organisms can adapt their digestive metabolism to the presence of plant antidigestive proteins ingested by their herbivorous preys. In a broader context, this study stresses the need to monitor the inhibitory effects of PI-expressing plants not only on the herbivorous insects targeted, but also on the organisms likely to consume these pests in the environment.
12919781	A field experiment has been conducted with two herbicides viz. oxadiazon [5-terbutyl-3-(2,4-dichloro-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-one] and oxyfluorfen [2-chloro-1-(3-ethoxy-4-nitrophenyl)-4-(trifluoromethyl) benzene] at rates of 0.4 and 0.12 kg a.i. ha(-1), respectively, to investigate their effect on the growth and activities of phosphate solubilizing microorganisms in relation to availability of phosphorus as well as persistence of the herbicides in the rhizosphere soil of wetland rice (Oryza sativa L. variety IR-36). Application of herbicides stimulated the population and activities of phosphate solubilizing microorganisms and also the availability of phosphorus in the rhizosphere soil. Oxyfluorfen provided greater microbial stimulation than oxadiazon. Dissipation of oxyfluorfen and oxadiazon followed first order reaction kinetics with half-life (T(1/2)) of 8.8 and 12 days, respectively. Sixty days after application 0.5% and 3% of the applied oxadiazon and oxyfluorfen residues persisted, respectively, in the rhizosphere soil of rice.
12920513	To estimate genetic diversity of the residual northern populations of Oryza rufipogon, a total of 232 individuals from six populations were analyzed using microsatellites (SSRs). The O. rufipogon populations with different status included three from Dongxiang (Jiangxi Province) and three from Chaling (Hunan Province) in China. The 23 rice SSR primer pairs selected from the RiceGenes Database detected a total of 115 alleles, indicating that all the SSR loci were polymorphic in this study. The total gene diversity was 0.919 in the six O. rufipogon populations, and the Donxiang populations showed higher diversity than the Chaling populations. More significant genetic differentiation and less gene flow were found among the Dongxiang populations than those from Chaling. The two putative introgressed populations showed relatively high genetic variation. One in situ conserved population from Dongxiang had the lowest level of genetic diversity. The re-introduced population from Chaling restored about 90% of the genetic variation, compared with the original source population. It is concluded from these results that a relatively high level of genetic variation resided in the northern O. rufipogon populations and continued efforts of conservation of these populations are needed; and that the conservation of some Chaling and Dongxiang populations has been effective in preventing gene flow from cultivated rice. Introgression of cultivated rice demonstrated significant impacts on genetic variability of the O. rufipogon populations, and should be carefully considered in conserving this wild rice. This study also suggested that re-introduction to its original habitats is an effective approach to restore O. rufipogon populations.
12920519	Cold stress adversely affects plant growth and crop production. Some plants express a series of cold-responsive genes during cold acclimation to reduce the damage of cold stress. Among them, transcription factors play important roles in enhancing plant cold tolerance. A bHLH-type gene OsbHLH1 was isolated from rice. The predicted OsbHLH1 protein has a putative nuclear-localization signal and a putative DNA binding-domain bHLH-ZIP. The genomic sequence of the OsbHLH1 gene is unique in rice genome and has four introns. The transcription of the OsbHLH1 gene was specifically induced in roots of rice seedlings by cold but not by NaCl, PEG and ABA treatments. The OsbHLH1 protein was located in the nucleus of plant cells and had the ability to activate the transcription of the reporter gene in yeast. In addition, OsbHLH1 had the ability to dimerize. These results indicate that the OsbHLH1 may function as a transcription factor in a cold signal-transduction pathway.
12920888	Sloping wildland is the important potential land resource in China. Structures and functions of five optimized models selected from more than 10 intercropping patterns in the newly built orchards in the uncultivated sloping field were analyzed in this paper. The results showed that organic matter was increased by 5-20%, total N by 7-40%, total P by 8-70%, and total K by 15-80% yearly. Considering its benefit in soil and water conservation, the intercropping model of peanut and autumn soybean was the best, and followed by spring soybean and autumn soybean, tomato and Chinese cabbage, cayenne and tomato, and drought rice and red turnip. Compared with the control, the average soil erosion module and runoff amount of the 5 models were decreased by 44.19%, 38.24%, 39.52%, 37.56%, 37.30%, and 22.40%, 9.28%, 24.11%, 21.60%, 15.93%, respectively. The intercropping model of cayenne and tomato had the highest biomass, and its annual biomass averaged 1,00,267 kg.hm-2. The biomass of intercropping model of peanut and autumn soybean was the second, and the annual value averaged 77,026 kg.hm-2. Intercropping model of peanut and autumn had the highest annual productivity, which averaged 15,619 kg.hm-2, and that of intercropping model of tomato and Chinese cabbage was the second, averaged 15,394 kg.hm-2. The efficiency of energy introjection was in order of cayenne and tomato, tomato and Chinese cabbage, peanut and autumn soybean, spring soybean and autumn soybean, and dry rice and red turnip, and their values were 3.06, 2.16, 2.15, 2.06, and 0.71, respectively.
12920912	Investigations on the effects of different application dosage of Machete and Londax mixture to control weeds in paddy fields showed that applied common and double dosage could effectively control weeds, and the controlling effects exceeded 80% and 90%, respectively, while there were some inhibiting effects to height and branch number of rice, and some resistance of weed had appeared. Weed contest might make rice get some compensation in height and branch under the condition that no herbicide and half dosage were applied, but the rice yield was decreased 36.01% and 54.80%, respectively, mainly because of the decrease of the number of effective panicles and grain number per panicle. The narrow economic benefit of the herbicides should be high.
12921562	To study farm compost polluted water that may induce pharyngo-esophageal, gastric and liver carcinoma in chickens. 280 chickens were randomized into 4 groups: experiment group 100 chickens fed with compost water + NaNO(2) by stomach tube. The other 180 were evenly randomized into 3 control groups (60 each), fed with compost water, NaNO(2) and tap water in the same way. The farm compost was prepared with corn stalks, rice straws, excreta of men and livestock. The compost water, after being nitrosified and acidified, was fed through stomach tube 5 - 7.5 ml/session, twice a week. Besides, a solution consisting of the respective formula of each group added with 3 - 4 L water with pH adjusted to 3 - 4 by 1N HCL was given ad lib to all chickens in each group for 26.5 months. In the experiment group, there were pharyngo-esophageal carcinoma 16 (16.3%), gastric adenocarcinoma 5 (10.4%) and liver carcinoma 3 (6.3%), in contrast to none in the 3 control groups, showing significant differences (P < 0.01, P < 0.01, P < 0.05). Successful simulation of the layout of esophageal carcinoma high morbidity area and the mimic of chicken gastric fluid strongly support our compost etiological hypothesis that the nitrosified and acidified compost water are carcinogenic, very well causing esophageal, gastric and liver carcinoma.
12922974
12924122	Permanently flooded rice fields are the rice fields which emit the largest amount of CH4 in China. A 6-years (1995-2000) measurement carried out in a permanently flooded rice field in Chongqing, China showed that draining floodwater in winter and planting upland crops, either winter wheat or rape, instead of fallow under flooded conditions not only stopped CH4 emission during the winter season, but also mitigated CH4 emission during following rice growing period. CH4 emission could also be mitigated by ridge-cultivation. By using the results obtained from 1998-2000, statistical analysis indicated a significant relationship between the mean CH4 emission over the rice growing period and averaged soil moisture in winter season, which explained 56% of the variation of the CH4 emissions among the years and treatments. The averaged soil moisture (0-20 cm) in winter season and soil temperature (5 cm) over the rice growing period explained 78% of the variation. The significance of soil moisture in winter season in CH4 emission during the following rice growing period was further demonstrated by a lysimeter experiment. The relationships implied that the precipitation during non-rice growing period, which dominates soil moisture at a large spatial scale, and the soil temperature during the rice growing period would be the main factors controlling the annual variation of CH4 emissions from rice fields.
12924129	The DNA of 251 Magnaporthe grisea isolates from Shiping County, which originated from monoculture and mixture fields, was extracted and amplified by rep-PCR which primer was from palindromes Pot2 of Magnaporthe grisea. The result showed that all isolates were amplified 9-17 DNA bands, the size was about from 400 bp to 23 kb, but mainly between 5-10 kb. 65% bands were polymorphism bands, and 35% were the same bands. Genetic structures of Magnaporthe grisea in the different rice varieties fields were compared by clustering analysis. The complexions of isolates genetic lineages were related to culture patterns. There were more genetic lineages in mixture field than in monoculture one. The dominant lineages were not distinct in mixture field. The result proved that biodiversity might provide a convincing basis for the steady selection of rice variety to pathogen.
12924130	138 rice (Oryza sativa) germplasms were identified to study the allelopathy to barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crusgalli), using the relay seeding technique. The results showed that Qingkun 2 from Jiangxi Province, Xiayitiao from Jiangsu Province, Jizaoxian from Anhui Province, Ganzaoxian 37 from Jiangxi Province, Shangnuo 1, IR68465-2-3-2 from IRRI, and Shuiyuan 2 from Korea had a strongly excellent inhibition effect on barnyardgrass. Results from pot culture showed that Gumei 2 and Zhong 156 had a greater inhibitory effect than control, and allelopathic material TN1 had no significantly inhibition effect, compared to non-allelopathic material Xiushui 63. The effect of Zhong 156 was related to its plant height, and significant different from that of Xiushui 63. Gumei 2 had a stronger inhibition effect on barnyardgrass, due to its own allelopathic trait.
12924131	The oviposition preference of female of rice and water-oat population of rice stem borer was studied in the oviposition cage (1 m x 1 m x 0.8 m) in laboratory. The results showed that there was no significant difference between the numbers and distributions of eggs laid by the two populations, but each population preferred to lay its non-hatching ovum on the non-host plant. The host-selection behavior of larvae of two host populations was also investigated by Y-tube olfactory. When the leaf or leaf shell of rice and water-oat was provided to larvae of rice population in choice test, 4th and 6th instar larvae of rice population preferred rice leaf to water-oat leaf and 2nd and 4th instar larvae preferred leaf shell of rice to leaf shell of water-oat. When leaves of rice and water-oat were provided to larvae of water-oat population in choice test, except for 1st instar, each stadium of larvae preferred water-oat leaf to rice leaf, and when leaf shells of rice and water-oat were provided, all stadiums of larvae preferred leaf shell of water-oat to leaf shell of rice. These results demonstrated that intraspecies differentiation between the two populations, and the specialization of water-oat population of rice stem borer to host was higher than that of rice population.
12924132	The volatile oil from C. odorata had a significant effect on the growth of plants, fungi and insects. The result showed that the seedling growth of five test plants was obviously inhibited, in the order of ryegrass > Chinese cabbage > radish > snap been > rice. The inhibitory effect of the oil at its middle concentration (800 mg.L-1) for Pyricularia grisea was the strongest, the next was to Phytophthora nicotianae, and the weakest was to Fusarium axysporum. The inhibitory percentage was 61.40%, 29.27% and 14.44%, respectively. The volatile oil from C. odorata at the dose of 10-20 microliters.plant-1 had a significant oviposition deterrent effect on Phyllotreta striolata and Plutella xylostella. The volatile oil from C. odorata was analyzed by GC/MS and thirty components were identified. Terpenoids compounds were major components of the volatile oil, such as trans-caryophyllene (16.58%), delta-cadinene (15.85%), alpha-copaene (11.58%), caryophyllene oxide (9.63%), germacrene-D (4.96%), and delta-humulene (4.32%).
12924150	Rice allelopathy is implemented through its release of allelochemicals to environment. Many researchers considered that rice allelochemicals were phenolics. The action mechanisms of rice against weeds allelochemicals included the inhibition of seed germination and emergence, the effect on the balance of hormones, the damage on the integrity of cell membrane systems, the effect on photosynthesis and respiration, the disturbance of nutrient and water uptake and the effect on the protein synthesis and gene expression. Rice allelopathy is controlled by polygenes, and inherited quantitatively. Several QTLs were identified by the methods of molecular biological techniques and allelopathic bioassay. It might be the important research work to locate the QTLs accurately and to clone the allelopathic genes with the method of marker-assisted selection and the near isogenic lines.
12924160	A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population and two chromosome segment substitution line (CSSL) population derived from the cross of Asominori (japonica) and IR24 (indica) were used to detect QTL controlling seed dormancy. CSSL1 were a series of IR24 chromosome segment substitution lines in Asominori background, and CSSL2 were a series of introgression lines of Asominori in the background of IR24. Three QTL were detected on chromosome 3, 6 and 9 in RIL population, and individual QTL accounted for between 12.3% and 13%. Three QTL were detected on chromosome 1, 3 and 7 in CSSL1, and individual QTL accounted for between 11.5% and 18.9%. Three QTL were detected on chromosome 1, 2 and 7 in CSSL2, and individual QTL accounted for between 11% and 16%. The QTLs on chromosome 1 and 7 were detected in CSSL1 and CSSL2 populations simultaneously, QTL came from Asomonori, the moderate dormant cultivar, increased seed dormancy, and QTL from IR24, the weakly dormant cultivar, decreased seed dormancy. It can be deduced that there exist genes controlling seed dormancy at this region.
12925323	Buruli ulcer is an emerging disease with a high prevalence in many West African countries neighbouring Togo. The aim of the present study is to assess the situation in Togolese hospitals. It was conducted for 2 years (between January 2000 and December 2001) based on the Buruli ulcer record files set up in Togolese hospitals, with a view to analyse the incidence of the disease, its characteristics in the patients and its topographic distribution in relation to their environment. During this period, 180 patients were recorded, 120 of whom were male and 18 female. The average age was 20.7 years and 20.6% of the cases were children. Lower limbs were more affected (153), followed by upper limbs (20), trunk (5), head and neck (2). Large ulcerative lesions were recorded in 11.11% of cases (n = 20), localised in 7.5% of the patients (n = 143), diffuse or metastatic in 9.4% of cases. No pre-ulcerative lesion was found. An increase in the incidence of the disease was observed from one year to the other while cases were notified in new care centres. Three risk areas were identified according to the origin of the patients : the laguna area of the coast, marshy inland areas where market crops and rice are cultivated and river valley areas. The study revealed that Buruli ulcer cases treated in Togolese hospitals were increasing year after year. A morbidity study is necessary to assess the importance of the disease on a national scale.
12925325	A longitudinal study based on mosquitoes sampled by larvae prospecting and adult catches on humans was carried out during 1999 in the rice field area of the Kou Valley (South-West Burkina Faso) to evaluate the malaria transmission level. Two sites were studied: VK5 located in the rice field centre and VK7 in the periphery. Irrigation is sub-permanent and two crops are grown each year: from February to June during the dry season and from July to November during the rainy season. A man sleeping in VK5 without any protection is exposed to more than 60,000 mosquito bites/year. Two majors vectors are present: Anopheles gambiae sl. and An. funestus. The An. gambiae M form which breeds in rice fields constitutes the majority of the complex. At the periphery of the rice fields, we observed a mix of M and S forms during the rainy season, the latter form coming from classical breeding sites created by rainfall (residual puddles). An. arabiensis is rare in this environment while we can find it in sympathy with An. gambiae in the surrounding savannah. An. gambiae remains present throughout the year. Its dynamics depends closely on both season and rice cycle. There are two density peaks, in March (210 bites/man/night) and in July (306 b/m/n), corresponding to the moment when rice is planted. The latter peak is more important due to additional productivity of residual puddles created by rainfall. These large and very young populations can not transmit malaria. Growing rice reduces larvae productivity: transmission occurs when the adult population decreases and becomes older. Variations in parity rate and sporozoitic index are inversely related to mosquito density. Finally, the An. gambiae population is lowest during the dry season in January when irrigation stops. An. funestus does not develop in rice fields but rather in drains made of dirt, in addition to the classical natural breeding sites at the end of the rainy season. The density of An. funestus is 25 to 30 times smaller than that of A. gambiae, as observed during 8 months in VK5 and 10 months in VK7, with a peak of 16 b/m/n in January. Its mean parity rate and sporozoitic index is higher than those of An. gambiae. An. funestus plays an additional role in malaria transmission at the same period as An. gambiae but more shortly and less intensively. Finally, malaria transmission is due mainly to An. gambiae (90%) and, to a lesser extent, to An. funestus (10%). It occurs in VK5 during two periods of four month search : from May to August and from November to February. In VK7, transmission is also bimodal but it occurs more extensively throughout the year with only July and Septemberas exemptions of transmission. The annual inoculation rate amounts to 697 and 515 infected bites per man. This value is higher than those obtained in 1984/1985 : 50 and 60 infected bites per man per year. This increase is due to both the growth of aggressive vectorial density and the sporozoitic index. Growth of adult density can be explained by the environmental modification and/or better adaptation of vectorial species. The sporozoitic index of vectors has been obtained using Elisa, which is twice as sensitive as the microscopic observations used in 1984/1985. This can partly explain the increase in the sporozoitic index. Other hypotheses in relation to human parasitological inputs have to be evaluated more accurately. The level and rhythm of transmission in the rice field in 1999 are more important than those registered in the surrounding savannah the same year. However, this important transmission is not proportionally related to the high vectorial density found in rice fields. Probably, it does not imply more malaria diseases, but its intensity and rhythm could concentrate malaria cases in young people with an early acquisition of premunition. Pyrethroid impregnated bednets should be used to prevent malaria especially since high mosquito nuisance drives local populations to use it and since the An. gambiae M form is particularly susceptible to this class of insecticides.
12925801	Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) catalyses the transfer of the gamma-phosphoryl group from a nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) to a nucleoside diphosphate (NDP). NDK is involved in and required for coleoptile elongation in rice. The level of the enzyme changes during seed germination and the early stages of seedling growth. Recombinant rice NDK (rNDK) has been crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. rNDK crystals diffracted to a resolution of 2.50 A and belong to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 70.98, b = 182.26, c = 188.30 A. Preliminary analysis indicates there to be 12 rNDK molecules in each asymmetric unit, with a solvent content of 47.2%.
12926747	To evaluate the effects of age and dental status on chewing performance in humans. Electromyography recordings (EMG) were made during chewing of six foods (rice, beef, cheese, crispy bread, apple, and peanuts) to compare the masticatory patterns of four subject groups with different ages and dental status. Nineteen elders (mean age 67.2 years) classified into three categories according to their number of opposing post-canine teeth pairs (i.e. functional units) and a control group of 10 young adults (mean age 26.5 years) with a high number of functional units. Number of chewing cycles, chewing time, total muscle activity and muscle activity per chew, burst and inter-burst durations, maximum and mean voltages from EMG recordings. Time-related EMG parameters increased from young subjects to elderly subjects with high, middle and low dental status. Parameters related to EMG voltages per chew decreased in the same order among the different groups of subjects. These tendencies were observed for all the studied products. Subjects with weak muscle contraction may compensate for their poor chewing performance by lengthening both chewing cycle and sequence duration. Additional alterations in the chewing patterns were observed when age effect was associated with a dental status degradation in terms of number of functional units. Impairment in mastication for the elderly is due to both ageing and decreasing number of functional pairs of post-canine teeth.
12926787	Two experiments were conducted to determine the effect of phytase on energy availability in pigs. In Exp. 1, barrows (initial and final BW of 26 and 52 kg) were allotted to four treatments in a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement. Corn-soybean meal (C-SBM) diets were fed at two energy levels (2.9 and 3.2 x maintenance [M]) with and without the addition of 500 phytase units/kg of diet. The diets contained 115% of the requirement for Ca, available P (aP), and total lysine, and Ca and aP were decreased by 0.10% in diets with added phytase. Pigs were penned individually and fed daily at 0600 and 1700, and water was available constantly. Eight pigs were killed and ground to determine initial body composition. At the end of Exp. 1, all 48 pigs were killed for determination of carcass traits and protein and fat content by total-body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) analysis. Six pigs per treatment were ground for chemical composition. In Exp. 2, 64 barrows and gilts (initial and final BW of 23 and 47 kg) were allotted to two treatments (C-SBM with 10% defatted rice bran or that diet with reduced Ca and aP and 500 phytase units/kg of diet), with five replicate pens of barrows and three replicate pens of gilts (four pigs per pen). In Exp. 1, ADG was increased (P < 0.01) in pigs fed at 3.2 x M. Based on chemical analyses, fat deposition, kilograms of fat, retained energy (RE) in the carcass and in the carcass + viscera, fat deposition in the organs, and kilograms of protein in the carcass were increased (P < 0.10) in pigs fed the diets at 3.2 vs. 2.9 x M. Based on TOBEC analysis, fat deposition, percentage of fat increase, and RE were increased (P < 0.09) in pigs fed at 3.2 x M. Plasma urea N concentrations were increased in pigs fed at 3.2 x M with no added phytase but were not affected when phytase was added to the diet (phytase x energy, P < 0.06). Fasting plasma glucose measured on d 28, ultrasound longissimus muscle area (LMA), and 10th-rib fat depth were increased (P < 0.08) in pigs fed phytase, but many other response variables were numerically affected by phytase addition. In Exp. 2, phytase had no effect (P > 0.10) on ADG, ADFI, gain:feed, LMA, or 10th-rib fat depth. These results suggest that phytase had small, mostly nonsignificant effects on energy availability in diets for growing pigs; however, given that phytase increased most of the response variables measured, further research on its possible effects on energy availability seems warranted.
12926869	Anthocyanins, present in fruits and vegetables as natural colorants, have been well characterized to possess bioactive properties. Anthocyanin components extracted from black rice (Oryza sativa L. indica) separated by gel filtration and identified using LC-MS were cyanidin 3-glucoside and peonidin 3-glucoside. A standardized extract of black rice pigmented fraction (BRE) containing known proportions of cyanidin 3-glucoside and peonidin 3-glucoside exhibited marked antioxidant activities and free radical scavenging capacities in a battery of in vitro model systems. Significant (p < 0.05) prevention of supercoiled DNA strand scission induced by reactive oxygen species (specifically, peroxyl radical and hydroxyl radicals) and suppression of the oxidative modification of human low-density lipoprotein was obtained with BRE. In addition, BRE reduced (p < 0.05) the formation of nitric oxide by suppressing inducible nitric oxide synthase expression in murine macrophage RAW264.7 cells, without introducing cell toxicity. The results of this study show that black rice contains anthocyanin pigments with notable antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties for potential use in nutraceutical or functional food formulations.
12926903	Monascus purpureus produces several hitherto unknown compounds in addition to pigments and the mycotoxin citrinin. In red fermented rice (angkak, red koji) obtained as cultures of M. purpureus DSM1379 and DSM1603, we detected two compounds with identical UV absorption spectra and maxima at 306-307 nm. They were isolated by HPLC, and their structures were elucidated by intensive MS and NMR studies. Monascopyridine A (3) contains a gamma-lactone, propenyl group, hexanoyl side chain, and a pyridine ring, whereas the more lipophilic compound, monascopyridine B, is a higher homologue of monascopyridine A with the more lipophilic octanoyl instead of the hexanoyl side chain. This is the first report of Monascus metabolites with a pyridine ring.
12927963	Trehalose is a rare sugar with unique abilities to protect biomolecules from environmental stresses and is present in many bacteria, fungi and some desiccation-tolerant higher plants. Increasing trehalose accumulation in crop plants could improve drought and salinity tolerance. Transgenic plants have been developed with trehalose biosynthetic genes--a recent study on the stress-inducible overexpression of the bifunctional TPSP fusion gene in transgenic rice could offer novel strategies for improving abiotic stress tolerance in crop plants.
12932364	D-[14C]glucose was incorporated into starch when 12 varieties of starch granules were incubated with [14C]sucrose. Digestion of the 14C-labeled starches with porcine pancreatic alpha amylase showed that a high percentage (16.1-84.1%) of the synthesized starch gave a relatively high molecular weight alpha-limit dextrin. Hydrolysis of the 12 varieties of starch granules by alpha amylase, without sucrose treatment, also gave an alpha-limit dextrin, ranging in amounts from 0.51% (w/w) for amylomaize-7 starch to 8.47% (w/w) for rice starch. These alpha-limit dextrins had relatively high molecular weights, 2.47 kDa for amylomaize-7 starch to 5.75 kDa for waxy maize starch, and a high degree of alpha-(1-->6) branching, ranging from 15.6% for rice starch to 41.1% for shoti starch. ADPGlc and UDPGlc did not synthesize a significant amount (1-2%) of the branched component, suggesting that sucrose is the probable substrate for the in vivo synthesis of the component and that sucrose is not first converted into a nucleotide-glucose diphosphate intermediate.
1293301	The incorporation and distribution of tritium were examined in rats exposed to tritiated rice or tritiated soybean by single ingestion or continuous feeding. Results were compared with those for tritiated wheat and tritiated water in a previous study done under the same experimental conditions. All the tritiated crops examined were more efficiently incorporated into rat tissues than was tritiated water, the extent of incorporation depending on the kind of crop. The differences in incorporation were clear in organically bound tritium determined as tritium in dried tissue. The respective concentrations of organically bound tritium after a single ingestion of tritiated rice, tritiated wheat or tritiated soybean were about 10-20, 20-30 and 25-60 times higher than after the ingestion of tritiated water. After continuous feeding for 22 days with tritiated rice, tritiated wheat or tritiated soybean, the respective concentrations of organically bound tritium were 5-8, 6-11 and 10-25 times the values after continuous ingestion of tritiated water. At the end of continuous ingestion, the radiation dose rates to almost of the tissues from all three tritiated crops were estimated to be 2-3 times that for tritiated water.
12934259	The nutritional status in older aged persons is the resulting of their living conditions and health. The demographic growing of this part of population is a challenge to health professionals, to know which are the characteristics of the normality in this stage of life. To know the nutritional status of the older aged persons beneficiaries of the ASOMA programme and identify from a qualitative focus, their food consumption standards. Descriptive, co-relational and transversal field study. Universe: 10214 persons from three different food assistance programmes. Sampling method: aleatory stratified respecting the universe proportion resulting n = 162 from ASOMA programme. Equation: Chumlea's was used to check height-taking reference from knee height and BMI. Observation and measurement (anthropometric) The group has been represented into 2/3 parts of women n:108 and the age category older-young persons, low education level, temporary incomes always under $200 monthly. One quarter of them still work. The food consumption standard is signed by three basic foods: bread, oil and sugar and a frequent consumption of rice and chicken. Cow-meat, three-kind vegetables, pasta and "A" fruits appear as less frequents. The 83.9% of older-persons have a monotonous diet (weekly consumption < or = 5 different foods) that belong to the ASOMA programme. The middle value for BMI was 27.4 for the entire group, SD 5.33. The 24.1% of de population were situated in BMI values status that indicate normal nutritional. Analyzing the values by sex, men values were all around the middle value of the group. Among the women the values showed more dispersion. The BMI for women (middle value 28.4 with SD 5.88) was higher than for men (middle value 25.9 with SD 3.60). It was found positive co relation between BMI and body fat percentage and negative for BMI and body water percentage. Therefore was founded a negative significant co relation between the body fat and body water percentages.
12934357	To duplicate a model of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) in the neonatal rat to create unilateral cerebral damage. Healthy 7-day-old Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were used as research subjects and randomly divided into 3 groups: the control group (n = 18), the sham operated group (n = 8), and the HIBD group (n = 19). The HIBD model was produced according to the traditional Rice model and the brains were collected when the rats were 14 days old. The weight, left/right brain weight ratio, behavioral ability, and neuropathologic changes were studied in each group. 1. The weight in the HIBD group increased obviously slowly and was lower than that in the control group and sham operated group (P < 0.01). 2. The abnormity of behavioral ability was found in the HIBD group, including turnover unability (63.16%), spontaneously turn left round (89.47%), convulsion (47.37%), and so on. 3. The left/right brain weight ratio was significantly lower in the HIBD group than in the other two groups (P < 0.01). 4. The pathologic features in the HIBD group were as follows: atrophy of left brain (84.21%), softening of left brain (31.58%), liquefaction of left brain (52.63%), and cavum brain (15.79%). HE staining showed the neuron damage and the proliferation of neuroglial cells in the HIBD group. There was no obvious abnormity found in the control group and the sham operated group. The model of HIBD is successful and worthy of spreading, with its cheap price, easy duplication, and higher successful rate. The reasonable ambient temperature should be kept in 36-37 degrees C.
12934934	After the beginning of the recombinant DNA era in the mid-1970s, researchers in India started to make use of the new technology to understand the structure of plant genes and regulation of their expression. The outcome started to appear in print in early the 1980s and genes for histones, tubulin, photosynthetic membrane proteins, phototransduction components, organelles and those regulated differentially by developmental and extrinsic signals were sequenced and characterized. Some genes of biotechnological importance like those encoding an interesting seed protein and the enzyme glyoxalase were also isolated. While work on the characterization of genome structure and organization was started quite early, it remained largely focused on the identification of DNA markers and genetic variability. In this context, the work on mustard, rice and wheat is worth mentioning. In the year 2000, India became a member of the international consortium to sequence entire rice genome. Several laboratories have also given attention to regulated expression of plastid and nuclear genes as well as to isolate target-specific promoters or design promoters with improved potential. Simultaneously, transgenic systems for crops like mustard, rice, wheat, cotton, legumes and several vegetables have been established. More recently, genes of agronomic importance like those for insect resistance, abiotic stress tolerance, nutritional improvement and male sterility, isolated in India or abroad, have been utilized for raising transgenics for crop improvement. Some of these transgenics have already shown their potential in containment facility or limited field trials conducted under the stipulated guidelines. Plant molecular biology and biotechnology are thus clearly poised to make an impact on research in basic biology and agriculture in the near future.
12935322	Chronic ethanol abuse can cause liver damage and unfavorable lipid profiles in humans and rodents. Phytonutrients have the potential to partially reverse some of the adverse effects of alcoholism. In this study, a germinated brown rice grown under conditions that favor high concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was evaluated for protective effects against the toxic consequences of chronic ethanol use. Serum and hepatic lipid concentrations and enzymes indicative of liver damage were determined in mice chronically administered ethanol. Balb/c mice were fed with either AIN-76 diet (control), control diet plus ethanol, or control diet plus ethanol and supplemental brown rice extract for 30 days. The extract naturally contained 841 nmol GABA per milliliter and was prepared from germinated brown rice. Serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), liver aspartate aminotransferase, and liver alanine aminotransferase levels were increased in mice administered ethanol, but not in mice given ethanol and brown rice extract. The brown rice extract significantly increased serum and liver high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentrations. Furthermore, administration of the extract prevented ethanol-induced increases in liver triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations. These findings raise the possibility that brown rice extracts containing a high level of GABA may have a nutraceutical role in the recovery from and prevention of chronic alcohol-related diseases.
12936922	Seasonality has been recognized as a key determinant of human energy balance, especially in low-income countries. The objective was to test the hypothesis that, in rural Bangladesh, different age and sex groups adapt similarly to seasonal changes in energy intake (EI). A prospective study was carried out in 2 rural Bangladeshi villages in the lean and peak seasons. Data on anthropometric measures (weight, height, and midupper arm circumference) and dietary food intake (collected with the use of a 24-h food weighing method) were obtained from all subjects from 304 households. The average EI increased from a least-squares mean (+/- SE) of 7.87 +/- 0.10 MJ x person(-1) x d(-1) in the lean season to 9.47 +/- 0.13 MJ x person(-1) x d(-1) in the peak season. In children and adolescents aged < 18 y of age, the prevalence of underweight (weight-for-age) was not significantly different (56%) in the 2 seasons. Among adults, a significantly higher prevalence of chronic energy deficiency [body mass index (in kg/m(2)) < 18.5] was observed in the peak season (67%) than in the lean season (61%), despite a higher EI in the peak season. Other determinants of seasonal nutritional status are presented. Seasonal fluctuations in EI were substantial in all age and sex groups. Children and adolescents showed no significant seasonal changes in the prevalence of underweight, which indicated that they adapted to changes in EI. In adults, the season in which EI was high coincided with average weight loss, which indicated that adults did not adapt fully to seasonal fluctuations in EI and that seasonal energy expenditure is probably a major determinant of nutritional status.
12937896	Transposable elements might be importantly involved in citrus genetic instability and genome evolution. The presence of gypsy like retrotransposons, their heterogeneity and genomic distribution in Citrus and Poncirus, have been investigated. Eight clones containing part of the POL coding region of gypsy like retrotransposons have been isolated from a commercial variety of Citrus clementina, one of the few sexual species in Citrus. Four of the eight clones might correspond to active elements given that they present all the conserved motifs described in the literature as essential for activity, no in-frame stop codon and no frame-shift mutation. High homology has been found between some of these citrus elements and retroelements within a resistance-gene cluster from potato, another from Poncirus trifoliata and two putative resistance polyproteins from rice. Nested copies of gypsy like elements are scattered along the Citrus and Poncirus genomes. The results on genomic distribution show that these elements were introduced before the divergence of both genera and evolved separately thereafter. IRAPs based on gypsy and copia types of retrotransposons seem to distribute differently, therefore gypsy based IRAPs prove a new, complementary set of molecular markers in Citrus to study and map genetic variability, especially for disease resistance. Similarly to copia-derived IRAPs, the number of copies and heterozygosity values found for gypsy derived IRAPs are lower in Poncirus than in Citrus aurantium, which is less apomictic and the most usual rootstock for clementines until 1970.
12937942	We have developed a highly sensitive in situ Western hybridization technique to study tissue-specific expression of foreign and endogenous genes in transgenic and non-transformed rice seed. The expression pattern of the soybean ferritin gene directed by a rice glutelin gene promoter, GluB-1, in transgenic rice seed revealed by this method was exactly the same as that revealed by immunological tissue printing but much clearer than the latter, and corresponded well to the results of GluB-1 promoter characterization studies. This method provides an alternative choice for studying the tissue-specific expression of a promoter, omitting the complicated transgenic procedure. The method can also be used to study the expression and accumulation pattern of endogenous genes, such as glutelin and prolamine genes, in non-transformed plants.
12938107	A procedure for determining small quantities of gliadins by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS) in gluten-free foods containing relatively large amounts of prolamin proteins from maize or rice is described. We report for the first time that gliadins, the ethanol-soluble wheat prolamin fraction, can be quantitatively solubilized in 1.0 M acetic acid, while the corresponding ethanol-soluble maize or rice prolamin fraction remains insoluble in acetic acid. We describe a methodology for the detection of gliadins in maize and rice foods based on a two-step procedure of extraction (60% aqueous ethanol followed by 1 M acetic acid). Subsequent MALDI-TOFMS analysis of the resulting acidic extract from these gluten-free foods clearly confirms the presence of a typical mass pattern corresponding to gliadin components, ranging from 30 to 45 kDa. Depending on the percentages of maize or rice flours employed in the elaboration of these foods, the combined procedure enables levels of gliadins from 100 to 400 ppm to be detected. The efficiency of this combined procedure corroborates enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay data for a large number of maize/rice gluten-free foods by means of direct visualization of the characteristic gliadin mass pattern in maize or rice foods.
12938171	Day length provides an important environmental cue by signalling conditions favourable for flowering. While Arabidopsis promotes flowering in response to long days, rice promotes flowering in response to short days. Despite this difference, a recent paper reveals that the network controlling this response is highly conserved in these distantly related plants, only the activity of one component is reversed. This reveals how an important developmental process can be diversified for adaptation by using the same set of genes, but regulating them differently.
12939476	Translational to vibrational (T-->V) energy conversion in the course of inelastic collisions of n-butylbenzene molecular ions with thiolate self-assembled monolayer (SAM) gold surfaces is studied to better understand internal energy uptake by the hyperthermal projectile ions. The projectile ion is selected by a mass spectrometer of BE configuration and product ions are analyzed using a quadrupole mass analyzer after kinetic energy selection with an electric sector. The branching ratio for formation of the fragment ions m/z 91 and m/z 92, measured over a range of collision energies, is used to estimate the average internal energy with the aid of calculations based on unimolecular dissociation kinetics [Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory]. The measured T-->V conversion efficiencies (the fraction of the laboratory kinetic energy converted into internal energy) are 11 approximately 12% for dodecanethiolate SAM (H-SAM) and 19 approximately 20% for 2-perfluorooctylethanethiolate SAM (F-SAM), respectively, over ranges of a few 10s of eV. The values are similar to those reported earlier for other thermometer molecules undergoing surface collisions. Chemical sputtering leading to ionization of the surface is a prominent feature of the surface-induced dissociation (SID) spectra of n-butylbenzene acquired using the H-SAM surface but not the F-SAM surface because of the lower ionization energy of the former.
12939798	The molecular phylogenetic relationships of five species of Oxya Audient-serville including O. chinensis, O. brachyptera, O. agavisa, O. japonica and O. intricata were studied with RAPD. Genomic DNA of forty-one individuals were amplified with eight oligonucleotide (10 mer) primers which were previously selected, the specifical bands occured in all them, a total of 96 clear and reproducible bands (rang from 200-2500 bp) were generated, 95 of which were polymorphic band, the only one band (850 bp) which was amplified with S362 was common to five species of Oxya. The obtaining segments of individual primer were between 8-16, the average was 12. A molecular phylogenetic tree based on was constructed Euclidean distance among five species of rice grasshopper by between-groups linkage method, the result indicated O. chinensis was closely related to O. brachyptera, the genetic relationship of O. japonica and O. agavisa was also close, whereas O. intricata had far phylogenetic relationship with them. The results of dendrogram were consistent with the previous conclusion of morphologic classification and cytotaxonomy, and suggested RAPD was suitable for analysis of phylogenetic relationships among species of Oxya.
12945366	A method for the determination of copper by FI-VGAAS (flow injection vapor generation atomic absorption spectrometry) was developed. The sample solution containing trace amounts of o-phenanthroline and 0.1 mol.L-1 HNO3 was carried out by carrier of 0.1 mol.L-1 HNO3 and merged with sodium tetrahydroborate solution to produce the vapor species of copper, which got separation in gas-liquid separator and was detected in a quartz tube atomizer at 1000 degrees C. A detection limit of 1.8 micrograms.L-1 (3 sigma) of copper was obtained with a sampling frequency of 144/h using a sample volume of 500 microL. The precision RSD was 2.6% (n = 11) at the 100 micrograms.L-1 copper. The method was applied to the analysis of human hair and rice standard reference samples, the results were in good agreement with certified values.
12945493	One of the input ways of radionucleids into the organism is through food intake. The aim of the present study is to measure the radioactivity levels in food and water samples within energy windows corresponding to 137Cs, 125I, 131I, 59Fe, and 57Co. Samples were taken from local and imported food belonging to the venezuelan basic alimentary basket and included: beef meat, hen egg, chicken bone, tomato, black bean, rice, powder milk from local dealers or imported from Italy and New Zeeland, potable water from the Valencia city aqueduct and bottled water from local sources or imported from Portugal. Radioactivity was measured with a well type Nal (TI) scintillation counter. Analyzed foods and water presented levels lower than the minimal detectable activity for 137Cs, 131I, 59Fe, 57Co, but it was detected in the Valencia city aqueduct water and in bottled water imported from Portugal, levels greater than the minimal detectable activity for the 125I energy window. These results strongly suggest the need of repeated multienergy windows monitoring of radioactivity of basic alimentary basket foods and potable water.
12945536	Effects of elevated O3 on the yields of rice and winter wheat were studied by using open-top chambers (OTCs). Results showed that compared to the control treatment, 200 ppb, 100 ppb, 50 ppb treatments caused a 80.4%, 58.6% and 10.5% decrease in grain yields per winter wheat plant and a 49.1%, 26.1% and 8.2% decrease in grain yield per rice plant, respectively. According to the dose-response relation educed from OTCs experiment and the monitor data of O3 concentrations in spots, it was estimated that the yield losses of rice and winter wheat resulted by O3 pollution in the Yangtze River Delta region in 1999 were 0.599 million ton and 0.669 million ton, economic losses were 0.539 billion RMB Yuan and 0.936 billion RMB Yuan, respectively.
12945864
1294627	Immunological assays were performed in young chicken and duck after they had been fed wortmannin-containing culture of Fusarium oxysporum or purified wortmannin for 2 weeks. The culture significantly decreased humoral response to sheep red blood cell, cell-mediated cutaneous hypersensitivity to phytohemagglutinin and phagocytic activity in isolated peritoneal exudate adherent cells, but only when the concentration was high enough to cause concurrent reduction in body weight gain and hematocrit. Increased dietary metabolizable energy and protein did not affect the toxicity of the culture. On the other hand, purified wortmannin (1 mg/kg diet) significantly inhibited the aforementioned immunological responses prior to the adverse effects on body growth and hematocrit. The data strongly indicate that wortmannin is an immunotoxic substance. The possibility that macrophage is the primary target cell type is discussed.
12947109	We previously demonstrated that a 31-bp nucleotide sequence located upstream of the rice Wx gene played an important role in its expression. We further showed that this cis-acting regulator interacts with nuclear proteins extracted from developing rice endosperm. We used the 31-bp sequence as bait in a yeast one-hybrid system to isolate several cDNA clones from a rice cDNA expression library. One of these cDNAs encodes a MYC protein, designated OsBP-5, which is 335 amino acids long and contains a putative basic helix-loop-helix-ZIP DNA-binding domain. This domain exhibits 50% amino acid sequence identity with the R/B proteins that regulate the expression of genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis in plants. The results of electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) and Southwestern gel blots indicate that this protein binds specifically to the CAACGTG motif within the 31-bp sequence. However, by itself, the OsBP-5 protein is unable to trans-activate a lacZ reporter gene controlled by the 31-bp sequence when tested in a yeast expression system. Interestingly, OsBP-5 can trans-activate this reporter gene when another protein, OsEBP-89, a member of the EREBP family of transcription factors, is present. Furthermore, in vitro pull-down experiments show that a protein isolated from developing rice endosperm interacts with the OsBP-5 protein, and Western blots confirm that the interacting protein is OsEBP-89. The formation of a supershift band in EMSAs also indicates that two proteins interact with each other. Interference of OsBP-5 gene expression by double-stranded RNA reduces the amylose content in mature seed of transgenic rice plants but has no visible effect on their phenotype. These results suggest that the OsBP-5 and OsEBP-89 proteins act synergistically, perhaps as a heterodimer, to regulate the transcription of the rice Wx gene.
12947434	Glycaemic glucose equivalent (GGE) content of a quantity of a food, based on glycaemic index, food composition and food quantity, is the theoretical weight of glucose that would induce a glycaemic response equivalent to that induced by the given amount of food. To test whether GGE content predicts glycaemic response to foods differing in glycaemic index, carbohydrate content and intake, over a practical range of carbohydrate intakes. : Controlled randomised study. Clinical trials unit at the Department of Human Nutrition, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. In all, 12 volunteers with and 12 without type II diabetes were recruited. All but one subject completed the trial. Yams, biscuits, white rice and porridge were consumed at 10 and 20 GGE doses, and 2-minute noodles at 24 and 48 GGE, following an overnight fast. Incremental areas under the blood glucose response curves (IAUC) over 3 h were calculated for each individual for all foods, and individual glycaemic responsiveness was determined as IAUC/GGE. Within GGE dose, blood glucose responses to all foods, except rice, were similar. Doubling GGE dose approximately doubled glycaemic response. Relative glycaemic effects were accurately predicted by GGE intake after adjusting for individual glycaemic sensitivity (individual average IAUC/GGE). The accuracy of prediction of relative glycaemic effect from GGE intake was affected little by carbohydrate dose. GGE content predicted glycaemic impact of foods over a practical range of carbohydrate intakes, and may therefore be useful for accurate dietary management of glycaemia in diabetes mellitus. The predictive validity of GGE in mixed meals now needs to be tested. Health Research Council of New Zealand contract 00/453.
12949549
12951219	Rice stripe disease, caused by Rice stripe virus (RSV), may lead to severe or even crippling losses in many rice-cultured countries and regions. As the most important vector of RSV, the small brown planthopper (SBPH) (Laodelphax striatellus) is largely responsible for the epidemic phase of the disease. Therefore, a rapid identification of RSV in the SBPH is of a great need for disease forecasting. A reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay is described to amplify a RSV gene in individual L. striatellus. By using primers matched to the viral RNA dependent RNA polymerase gene in RNA1, a 445 bp product was detected in viruliferous SBPHs. Meanwhile, the PCR products produced by the SBPH actin primers constructed across the boundary of an intron and an exon were used as RNA specific positive control for each stage of the experiment to ensure the validity of the negative results. Duplex RT-PCR conditions were established for the simultaneous detection of RSV and actin. This approach can be used for the early detection of RSV in L. striatellus and the subsequent rice stripe disease forecasting.
12951461	A new series of azole derivatives of 1-triazolyl-4-trimethylsilyl-2-butanol and 1-triazolyl-5-trimethylsilyl-2-pentanol were synthesized and evaluated for fungicidal activities against rice blast, sheath blight, and powdery mildew on barley. The derivatives of 2,4-difluorobenzene exhibited high antifungal activities when applied by spray, but exhibited no fungicidal activity by submerged application.
12951502	A chimeric gene encoding a precursor polypeptide of sesame 2S albumin, a sulfur-rich seed storage protein, was expressed in transgenic rice plants under the control of the glutelin promoter with the aim of improving the nutritive value of rice. Rice grains harvested from the first generation of ten different transformed lines inherited the transgene, and the accumulated sesame 2S albumin was presumably processed correctly as its mature form in sesame seed. This transgene was specifically expressed in maturing rice seeds with its encoded sesame 2S albumin exclusively accumulated in the seeds. The crude protein content in rice grains from five putative homozygous lines was increased by 0.64-3.54%, and the methionine and cysteine contents of these transgenic rice grains were respectively elevated by 29-76% and 31-75% compared with those of wild-type rice grains.
12952406	Seed oils are consumed worldwide; moreover, they are used in the alimentary, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries. Due to their diffusion, it is interesting to investigate the presence of important micronutrients such as selenium in seed oils. The aim of this work was to develop a rapid, precise, and sensitive cathodic stripping potentiometry (CSP) method to determine the concentration of selenium in different types of seed oils. Selenium was extracted from the oily matrix by concentrated hydrochloric acid treatment at 90 degrees C. The analysis was executed by applying an electrolysis potential of -150 mV for 60 s and a constant current of -30 microA. Under these conditions, detection limits of <0.5 ng g(-1) were obtained. The method reproducibility (expressed as total RSD %) spanned from 0.2 to 0.8%. Recoveries ranged from 92.1 to 97.5%, providing evidence that selenium quantification remained unaffected by the extraction procedure described. The results obtained with the proposed method were compared with those obtained via graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS), a common method for determining selenium. The results of the two methods agreed within 93.5-107.7%. The mean amounts of selenium found were 313.0 +/- 2.0, 458.3 +/- 1.3, 224.6 +/- 0.9, 99.5 +/- 0.8, 332.2 +/- 0.5, 144.0 +/- 0.7, and 295.5 +/- 1.2 ng g(-1), respectively, in peanut, soybean, sunflower, rice, corn, grapestone, and seed oils.
12952874	As orthologous genes from related species diverge over time, some sequences are conserved in noncoding regions. In mammals, large phylogenetic footprints, or conserved noncoding sequences (CNSs), are known to be common features of genes. Here we present the first large-scale analysis of plant genes for CNSs. We used maize and rice, maximally diverged members of the grass family of monocots. Using a local sequence alignment set to deliver only significant alignments, we found one or more CNSs in the noncoding regions of the majority of genes studied. Grass genes have dramatically fewer and much smaller CNSs than mammalian genes. Twenty-seven percent of grass gene comparisons revealed no CNSs. Genes functioning in upstream regulatory roles, such as transcription factors, are greatly enriched for CNSs relative to genes encoding enzymes or structural proteins. Further, we show that a CNS cluster in an intron of the knotted1 homeobox gene serves as a site of negative regulation. We showthat CNSs in the adh1 gene do not correlate with known cis-acting sites. We discuss the potential meanings of CNSs and their value as analytical tools and evolutionary characters. We advance the idea that many CNSs function to lock-in gene regulatory decisions.
12953108	Plant mechanical strength is an important agronomic trait. To understand the molecular mechanism that controls the plant mechanical strength of crops, we characterized the classic rice mutant brittle culm1 (bc1) and isolated BC1 using a map-based cloning approach. BC1, which encodes a COBRA-like protein, is expressed mainly in developing sclerenchyma cells and in vascular bundles of rice. In these types of cells, mutations in BC1 cause not only a reduction in cell wall thickness and cellulose content but also an increase in lignin level, suggesting that BC1, a gene that controls the mechanical strength of monocots, plays an important role in the biosynthesis of the cell walls of mechanical tissues.
12953112	SURE (sugar responsive) is a cis element in plant sugar signaling. The SURE element was reported first for potato, in which it confers sugar responsiveness to the patatin promoter. A SURE binding transcription factor has not been isolated. We have isolated a transcription factor cDNA from barley and purified the corresponding protein. The transcription factor, SUSIBA2 (sugar signaling in barley), belongs to the WRKY proteins and was shown to bind to SURE and W-box elements but not to the SP8a element in the iso1 promoter. Nuclear localization of SUSIBA2 was demonstrated in a transient assay system with a SUSIBA2:green fluorescent protein fusion protein. Exploiting the novel transcription factor oligodeoxynucleotide decoy strategy with transformed barley endosperm provided experimental evidence for the importance of the SURE elements in iso1 transcription. Antibodies against SUSIBA2 were produced, and the expression pattern for susiba2 was determined at the RNA and protein levels. It was found that susiba2 is expressed in endosperm but not in leaves. Transcription of susiba2 is sugar inducible, and ectopic susiba2 expression was obtained in sugar-treated leaves. Likewise, binding to SURE elements was observed for nuclear extracts from sugar-treated but not from control barley leaves. The temporal expression of susiba2 in barley endosperm followed that of iso1 and endogenous sucrose levels, with a peak at approximately 12 days after pollination. Our data indicate that SUSIBA2 binds to the SURE elements in the barley iso1 promoter as an activator. Furthermore, they show that SUSIBA2 is a regulatory transcription factor in starch synthesis and demonstrate the involvement of a WRKY protein in carbohydrate anabolism. Orthologs to SUSIBA2 were isolated from rice and wheat endosperm.
12953120	Detailed analyses of the genomes of several model organisms revealed that large-scale gene or even entire-genome duplications have played prominent roles in the evolutionary history of many eukaryotes. Recently, strong evidence has been presented that the genomic structure of the dicotyledonous model plant species Arabidopsis is the result of multiple rounds of entire-genome duplications. Here, we analyze the genome of the monocotyledonous model plant species rice, for which a draft of the genomic sequence was published recently. We show that a substantial fraction of all rice genes (approximately 15%) are found in duplicated segments. Dating of these block duplications, their nonuniform distribution over the different rice chromosomes, and comparison with the duplication history of Arabidopsis suggest that rice is not an ancient polyploid, as suggested previously, but an ancient aneuploid that has experienced the duplication of one-or a large part of one-chromosome in its evolutionary past, approximately 70 million years ago. This date predates the divergence of most of the cereals, and relative dating by phylogenetic analysis shows that this duplication event is shared by most if not all of them.
12953455	Suspension sampling technique was applied to flame atomic emission spectrometry and Kalium in husked rice, millet and husked Kaoliang successfully determined. A new method for rapid determination of kalium was developed. The samples were grinded and then made into agar suspension. NaCl solution was added to an appropriate amount of suspension for eliminating ionijation interference, and test solution prepared. The test solution was injected into air-acetylene flame. The working curve method was used for the determination. Results were consistent with those obtained by ashing method. RSD < 3.0%. Relative error of the two methods was less than +/- 1.8%. The t-test showed that no difference was found. This method is convenient, rapid and accurate.
12953876	Lack of proper techniques to isolate black carbon (BC) from soils has hindered the understanding of their roles in the sorption and environmental fate of organic contaminants in soils and sediments. The burning of crop residues may be the primary source of BC in agricultural soils. In this study, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) residues were burned, and the resulting particulate matter (ashes) along with a soil were used to sorb diuron from water. Calculations indicated that the burning of crop residues may result in an appreciable level of ashes in soils. The diuron sorption isotherms on ashes were curvilinear Langmuir type, suggestive of surface adsorption and similar to that with activated carbon. Ashes were 400-2500 times more effective than soil in sorbing diuron over the concentration range of 0-6 mg/L. Sorption by wheat ash-amended soils and the degree of isotherm nonlinearity increased with increasing ash content from 0% to 1% (weight), indicating the significant contribution of wheat ash to the sorption. Calculations show that wheat ash and soil independently contributed to the sorption. Above the wheat ash content of 0.05%, the sorption was largely controlled by the ash. Density-based fractionation and repeated HCI-HF washing of wheat ash yielded carbon-enriched fractions and enhanced diuron sorption by these fractions. BC appeared primarily responsible for the high adsorptivity of ashes. Ashes arising from the burning of crop residues may be an important determinant of pesticide immobilization and environmental fate in soils.
12955204	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Pyricularia grisea, is a serious disease affecting rice-growing regions around the world. Current methods for identification of blast-resistant germplasm and progeny typically utilize phenotypic screening. However, phenotypic screens are influenced by environmental conditions and the presence of one resistance gene can sometimes phenotypically mask other genes conferring resistance to the same blast race. Pi-z is a dominant gene located on the short arm of chromosome 6 that confers complete resistance to five races of blast. Using sequence data found in public databases and degenerate primer pairs based on the P-loop, nucleotide binding sites and kinase domain motifs of previously cloned resistance genes, we have developed PCR-based DNA markers that cosegregate with the gene. These markers are polymorphic in a wide range of germplasm, including the narrow crosses characteristic of applied rice-breeding programs. They can now be used as a low cost, high-throughput alternative to conventional phenotypic screening for direct detection of blast resistance genes, allowing rapid introgression of genes into susceptible varieties as well as the incorporation of multiple genes into individual lines for more-durable blast resistance.
12955499	Treatment with cyclic AMP (cAMP) induces appressorium formation in the phytopathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea, the causative agent of rice blast disease. In a search for the M. grisea genes responsible for appressorium formation and host invasion, SAGE (Serial Analysis of Gene Expression) was carried out using mRNA isolated from fungal conidia germinating in the presence and absence of cAMP. From cAMP-treated conidia 5087 tags including 2889 unique tags were isolated, whereas untreated conidia yielded 2342 unique tags out of total of 3938. cAMP treatment resulted in up- and down-regulation of genes corresponding to 57 and 53 unique tags, respectively. Upon consultation of EST/cDNA databases, 22 tags with higher representation in cAMP-treated conidia were annotated with putative gene names. Furthermore, 28 tags corresponding to cAMP-induced genes could be annotated with the help of the recently published genome sequence of M. grisea. cAMP-induced genes identified by SAGE included many genes that have not been described so far, as well as a number of genes known to be involved in pathogenicity, e.g. MPG1, MAS1 and MAC1. RT-PCR of 13 randomly selected genes confirmed the SAGE results, verifying the fidelity of the SAGE data.
12955512	A full-length coding domain sequence of a gene analogous to granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS; ADP-glucose-starch glucosyltransferase, EC 2.4.1.21) was cloned and defined as OsGBSSII based on a Nitrogen (N)-starvation-induced cDNA library constructed using the rapid subtraction hybridization method. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsGBSSII was 62-85% identical to those of GBSS proteins from other plant species. The exon/intron organization of OsGBSSII was similar to that of OsGBSSI. OsGBSSII was mainly expressed in leaves and its protein was exclusively bound to starch granules in rice leaves, which suggests that the amylose in rice leaves is synthesized by OsGBSSII. N-starvation-induced expression of OsGBSSII could be repressed by supplying nitrate, ammonia or amino acid (glutamic acid or glutamine), glucosamine (an inhibitor of hexokinase) or dark conditions. These results indicate that N-starvation induction was dependent on the photosynthetic product and hexokinase in rice leaves. Sugars induced the accumulation of OsGBSSII transcripts in excised leaves through glycolysis-dependent pathways. OsGBSSII gene expression is regulated by the circadian rhythm in rice leaves.
12955541	Various inocula and grains were evaluated for carotenoid production by solid-state fermentation using Penicillium sp. PT95. Millet medium was more effective in both sclerotia growth and carotenoid production than other grain media. An inoculum in the form of sclerotia yielded higher sclerotia biomass compared to either a spore inoculum or a mycelial pellet inoculum. Adding wheat bran to grain medium favored the formation of sclerotia. However, neither the inoculum type nor addition of wheat bran resulted in a significant change in the carotenoid content of sclerotia. Among grain media supplemented with wheat bran (wheat bran:grain =1:4 w/w, dry basis), a medium consisting of rice and wheat bran gave the highest sclerotia biomass (15.10 g/100 g grain), a medium consisting of buckwheat and wheat bran gave the highest content of carotenoid in sclerotia (0.826 mg/g dry sclerotia), and a medium consisting of millet and wheat bran gave the highest carotenoid yield (11.457 mg/100 g grain).
1295594	The 6.7 kb EcoRI fragment containing the sorghum chloroplast psaA gene was cloned. The restriction endonuclease map and the nucleotide sequence were determined. The length of the determined nucleotide sequence was 3080 bp, of which the psaA coding sequence was 2253 bp, which encoded a polypeptide of 750 amino acids with a estimated molecular weight of 83000. The homologies of this psaA gene of sorghum with those of maize, rice and spinach were 99.4%, 96.3% and 89.4%, respectively, and the homologies of the deduced polypeptide sequences were 99.3%, 98.0% and 95.7%, respectively. We found that a difference in the profiles of the hydrophobic distribution of P700 apoproteins existed between C4 and C3 plants due to a change occurred at the 493th amino acid (C4 plants: Gly; C3 plants: Arg or Ser).
1295599	Total proteins were precipitated by (NH4)2SO4 from the overnight culture supernatant of antagonistic bacterium Bacillus subtilis A014, applied to CM52 column and separated into three main peaks. The preparation of peak III showed to inhibit specifically the growth of rice bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas compestris pv. oryzea was further purified with Mono S column on FPLC and named antibacterial protein LCIII. The molecular weight of this protein is 26915Da, pI = 9.12. Analysis of amino acid composition was revealed to be rich in glycine, threonine and serine, and devoid of proline. Twenty-eight amino acids of N-terminal were sequenced by the Edman degradation and computer analysis of this partial sequence showed that antibacterial protein LCIII is a novel one.
12956525	N-acetylchitooligosaccharides are potent elicitors to suspension-cultured rice cells, inducing a set of defense reactions. Expression of defense-related genes is considered to play an important role in defense reactions, and we employed microarray analysis of 8987 randomly selected expressed sequence tags to analyze the changes in gene expression caused by N-acetylchitooctaose. In this experiment, 166 genes were significantly induced and 93 genes were repressed. RNA gel blot analysis of 16 of these genes confirmed the microarray results. Of the 259 ESTs identified as responsive to N-acetylchytooctaose, 18 genes are related to signal transduction, including five calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs). Among these, three novel CDPKs responsive to N-acetylchitooctaose were isolated.
12956528	The SAP domain is a recently defined DNA binding domain that forms a helix-extended-helix structure. SAP proteins have been implicated in nuclear architecture and/or RNA metabolism. In this paper, we describe the cloning and characterization of a rice gene, OsBP-73, encoding a 375 amino acid protein with a SAP-like domain. We identified the binding sequence of OsBP-73 by gel retardation assays and southwestern blotting. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that OsBP-73 is weakly expressed in root, leaf and immature seed. OsBP-73 gene expression was also examined by histochemical studies of transgenic rice plants carrying an OsBP-73 5'/GUS reporter gene. The reporter gene is mainly expressed in the tissues with high cell division activities, such as root tip, stem node, panicle and immature seed. Genetic interference of OsBP-73 gene expression by double-stranded RNA strikingly inhibits the whole plant growth but does not affect the passage from the juvenile to adult phase. These results suggest that OsBP-73 may play an important role in the regulation of cell proliferation.
12956598	The traditional agricultural landscape of Japan, known as satoyama, consists of a mixture of forests, wet rice paddy fields, grasslands, and villages. This landscape supports a great diversity of plant and animal species, many of which are significant to the Japanese culture. The satoyama landscape is currently being rapidly converted to residential and industrial uses in Japan's expanding metropolitan areas, with the local loss of many species. Only 7% of the land in the Yokohama area remains as satoyama. City residents and older farmers have become key participants in programs to protect examples of satoyama. Many urban residents value the experience of participating in agricultural and conservation activities once they are made aware of the threat faced by the satoyama landscape. In one particularly successful program, conservation efforts and fund-raising are linked to "Totoro", an imaginary forest animal featured in a popular animated film.
