17617555	Rice has been found in archaeological sites dating to 8000 bc, although the date of rice domestication is a matter of continuing debate. Two species of domesticated rice, Oryza sativa (Asian) and Oryza glaberrima (African) are grown globally. Numerous traits separate wild and domesticated rices including changes in: pericarp colour, dormancy, shattering, panicle architecture, tiller number, mating type and number and size of seeds. Genetic studies using diverse methodologies have uncovered a deep population structure within domesticated rice. Two main groups, the indica and japonica subspecies, have been identified with several subpopulations existing within each group. The antiquity of the divide has been estimated at more than 100 000 years ago. This date far precedes domestication, supporting independent domestications of indica and japonica from pre-differentiated pools of the wild ancestor. Crosses between subspecies display sterility and segregate for domestication traits, indicating that different populations are fixed for different networks of alleles conditioning these traits. Numerous domestication QTLs have been identified in crosses between the subspecies and in crosses between wild and domesticated accessions of rice. Many of the QTLs cluster in the same genomic regions, suggesting that a single gene with pleiotropic effects or that closely linked clusters of genes underlie these QTL. Recently, several domestication loci have been cloned from rice, including the gene controlling pericarp colour and two loci for shattering. The distribution and evolutionary history of these genes gives insight into the domestication process and the relationship between the subspecies. The evolutionary history of rice is complex, but recent work has shed light on the genetics of the transition from wild (O. rufipogon and O. nivara) to domesticated (O. sativa) rice. The types of genes involved and the geographic and genetic distribution of alleles will allow scientists to better understand our ancestors and breed better rice for our descendents.
17617720	After injection with 0.1 mmol diquat/kg body weight, survival time was markedly shorter in Fischer-344 rats fed a purified diet than in rats fed a regular diet, and much more severe hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity were observed in the former than in the latter. The longer the feeding period on the purified diet, the shorter the survival time after diquat administration. These results indicate that the purified diet lacked components present in the regular diet that had protective effects against diquat toxicity. These two diets had nearly the same composition and content of vitamins and minerals. We tested the ingredients of the regular diet to determine which ones reduce diquat toxicity. We found that wheat bran had a protective effect, but that rice bran and bean-curd refuse (okara) did not.
17617849	Japanese encephalitis (JE) is an inflammatory disease in the central nervous system caused by infection with Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV). JE is a disease with a high fatality rate and endemic and epidemic in East, Southeast, and South Asia. High morbidity is noted in children living in the endemic area. JEV is maintained mainly between vector mosquitoes and pigs in nature. The risk of JE increases as the number of vector mosquitoes increases. The expansion of JEV-endemic area depends on irrigated rice field and pig farming. These environments that are suitable for infectious cycle of JEV exist widely in Asia today. The effective and safe vaccine is available in endemic countries and for international travelers. JE vaccination is strongly recommended to those who visit the JEV-endemic regions, especially in the rainy season.
17617907	LTR retrotransposons are one of the main causes for plant genome size and structure evolution, along with polyploidy. The characterization of their amplification and subsequent elimination of the genomes is therefore a major goal in plant evolutionary genomics. To address the extent and timing of these forces, we performed a detailed analysis of 41 LTR retrotransposon families in rice. Using a new method to estimate the insertion date of both truncated and complete copies, we estimated these two forces more accurately than previous studies based on other methods. We show that LTR retrotransposons have undergone bursts of amplification within the past 5 My. These bursts vary both in date and copy number among families, revealing that each family has a particular amplification history. The number of solo LTR varies among families and seems to correlate with LTR size, suggesting that solo LTR formation is a family-dependent process. The deletion rate estimate leads to the prediction that the half-life of LTR retrotransposon sequences evolving neutrally is about 19 My in rice, suggesting that other processes than the formation of small deletions are prevalent in rice DNA removal. Our work provides insights into the dynamics of LTR retrotransposons in the rice genome. We show that transposable element families have distinct amplification patterns, and that the turn-over of LTR retrotransposons sequences is rapid in the rice genome.
17618227	Insertion sequence IS1112 is a repetitive element with a relatively high number of copies in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Three new loci of IS1112 were identified in seven Chinese strains of Xoo using a single oligonucleotide primer J3; 5'-GCTCAGGTCAGGTGGCCTGG-3' by insertion-sequence-based polymerase chain reaction (IS-PCR). Among the three new loci of IS1112, two were located in the open-reading frame region of genes fhuA and cirA, which encode TonB-dependent receptors, and the third in ISXo2, another type of insertion sequence in Xoo genome. Three variants of IS1112 were identified in those three loci based on their sequence similarities: two were identical to IS1112a and IS1112b, reported in strain PXO86 from the Philippines, while the third was a new member of IS1112, defined as IS1112d. Inserting IS1112 in gene fhuA caused three bases, GGT, to be duplicated at the target site, but inserting it in gene cirA did not cause any duplication in the target site. The diversity of IS1112 sequence and insertion loci in Xoo genome and their potential effects are discussed.
17619150	Pathogens induce the expression of many genes encoding plant transcription factors, though specific knowledge of the biological function of individual transcription factors remains scarce. NAC transcription factors are encoded in plants by a gene family with proposed functions in both abiotic and biotic stress adaptation, as well as in developmental processes. In this paper, we provide convincing evidence that a barley NAC transcription factor has a direct role in regulating basal defence. The gene transcript was isolated by differential display from barley leaves infected with the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). The full-length cDNA clone was obtained using 5'-RACE and termed HvNAC6, due to its high similarity to the rice homologue, OsNAC6. Gene silencing of HvNAC6 during Bgh inoculation compromises penetration resistance in barley epidermal cells towards virulent Bgh. Complementing the effect of HvNAC6 gene silencing, transient overexpression of HvNAC6 increases the occurrence of penetration resistant cells towards Bgh attack. Quantitative RT-PCR shows the early and transient induction of HvNAC6 in barley epidermis upon Bgh infection. Additionally, our results show that the Arabidopsis HvNAC6 homologue ATAF1 is also induced by Bgh and the ataf1-1 mutant line shows decreased penetration resistance to this non-host pathogen. Collectively, these data suggest a conserved role of HvNAC6 and ATAF1 in the regulation of penetration resistance in monocots and dicots, respectively.
17619151	Increasing its root to shoot ratio is a plant strategy for restoring water homeostasis in response to the long-term imposition of mild water stress. In addition to its important role in diverse fundamental processes, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) is involved in root growth and development. Recent extensive characterizations of the YUCCA gene family in Arabidopsis and rice have elucidated that member's function in a tryptophan-dependent IAA biosynthetic pathway. Through forward- and reverse-genetics screening, we have isolated Tos17 and T-DNA insertional rice mutants in a CONSTITUTIVELY WILTED1 (COW1) gene, which encodes a new member of the YUCCA protein family. Homozygous plants with either a Tos17 or T-DNA-inserted allele of OsCOW1 exhibit phenotypes of rolled leaves, reduced leaf widths, and lower root to shoot ratios. These phenotypes are evident in seedlings as early as 7-10 d after germination, and remain until maturity. When oscow1 seedlings are grown under low-intensity light and high relative humidity, the rolled-leaf phenotype is greatly alleviated. For comparison, in such conditions, the transpiration rate for WT leaves decreases approx. 5- to 10-fold, implying that this mutant trait results from wilting rather than being a morphogenic defect. Furthermore, a lower turgor potential and transpiration rate in their mature leaves indicates that oscow1 plants are water-deficient, due to insufficient water uptake that possibly stems from that diminished root to shoot ratio. Thus, our observations suggest that OsCOW1-mediated IAA biosynthesis plays an important role in maintaining root to shoot ratios and, in turn, affects water homeostasis in rice.
17619158	This review discusses a multidisciplinary and multicomponent approach leading to the development and commercial release of transgenic Costa Rican rice varieties tolerant to the herbicide gluphosinate ammonium. We describe the field evaluations of the transgenic lines and their potential environmental impact, focusing on gene flow, particularly in relation to native wild Oryza species and weedy rice, based on trials performed in compliance with the national regulatory requirements of the country. We also present a socio-economic analysis of rice production in Costa Rica and the economic benefits of genetically modified (GM) rice as well as an environmental risk-benefit analysis for the deployment of GM rice. Additionally, food safety evaluation, intellectual property management, requirements for deregulation, and options for the commercialization of the new varieties are discussed. We also present results from a national survey aimed at assessing the level of support for GM crops in Costa Rica as this forms an integral component of our approach. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the adoption of these genetically improved rice varieties will provide clear benefits to Costa Rican rice growers and consumers.
17619853	Finger millet is an allotetraploid (2n = 4x = 36) grass that belongs to the Chloridoideae subfamily. A comparative analysis has been carried out to determine the relationship of the finger millet genome with that of rice. Six of the nine finger millet homoeologous groups corresponded to a single rice chromosome each. Each of the remaining three finger millet groups were orthologous to two rice chromosomes, and in all the three cases one rice chromosome was inserted into the centromeric region of a second rice chromosome to give the finger millet chromosomal configuration. All observed rearrangements were, among the grasses, unique to finger millet and, possibly, the Chloridoideae subfamily. Gene orders between rice and finger millet were highly conserved, with rearrangements being limited largely to single marker transpositions and small putative inversions encompassing at most three markers. Only some 10% of markers mapped to non-syntenic positions in rice and finger millet and the majority of these were located in the distal 14% of chromosome arms, supporting a possible correlation between recombination and sequence evolution as has previously been observed in wheat. A comparison of the organization of finger millet, Panicoideae and Pooideae genomes relative to rice allowed us to infer putative ancestral chromosome configurations in the grasses.
17620777	To determine the efficacy and safety of periarticular hyaluronic acid injections in acute lateral ankle sprain during 9 months at a sports injuries center. Randomized controlled prospective trial. Primary sport medicine and emergency practice. One hundred fifty-eight consecutive competitive athletes who suffered acute grade 1 or 2 lateral ankle sprains were randomized within 48 hours of injury. Patients were randomized at baseline to periarticular injection with hyaluronic acid (HA) + standard of care [rest, ice, compression, and elevation (RICE)] or placebo injection (PL) + standard of care (RICE) treatment at baseline assessment and on day 4 after injury. Assessments at baseline and days 4, 8, 30, and 90 included Visual Analogue Scale (VAS; 0-10 cm) pain on weight bearing and walking 20 m, patient global assessment of ankle injury (five-point categorical scale), patient satisfaction with treatment (five-point categorical scale), time to return to pain-free and disability-free sport, and adverse events. Differences between groups were determined using an intent-to-treat analysis of variance. About 30% of the ankle sprains were "first" events, and no differences in clinical assessments with those presenting but not volunteering for the study (n = 341) were observed. Time to intervention was 39 +/- 4 hours, with no difference between groups. No serious adverse events were recorded during the 8-day treatment period. No difference in concomitant treatment or physical therapy was observed between groups. A significant reduction in VAS pain on both weight bearing and walking was observed at day 8 for HA compared with PL (P < 0.05). Significantly greater patient satisfaction was observed for HA versus PL at days 4 (P < 0.05), 8 (P < 0.001), 30 (P < 0.001), and 90 (P < 0.05). Patient global assessment of ankle injury was significantly better compared with baseline in the HA group at day 8, but this was not different between groups. Time to pain-free and disability-free return to sport was 11 (+/-8) versus 17 (+/-8) days for HA and PL, respectively (P < 0.05). HA treatment for acute ankle sprain was highly satisfactory in the short term and the long term versus PL. This was associated with reduced pain and more rapid return to sport, with few associated adverse events.
17621287
17621745	In Mae Sot District, Tak Province, Thailand, the paddy fields receiving irrigation from the two creeks and crops grown in the areas were found to contain markedly elevated cadmium levels during the surveys in 2001-2004. The present report carried out a survey in 2004 to determine urinary cadmium, a good index of excessive cadmium exposure and body burden, among the exposed residents aged 15 years and older in these contaminated areas. Morning urine samples were collected from the subjects and then kept frozen until cadmium analysis. Urinary cadmium was determined using the atomic absorption spectrometry and urinary creatinine was determined using a method of reaction with picric acid at alkaline pH and colorimetry. Of the 7,697 persons surveyed, only 45.6% had urinary cadmium levels < 2 microg/g creatinine. About 4.9% were between 5 and 10 microg/g creatinine and 2.3% had cadmium concentrations > 10. The urinary cadmium level was greater among women than men and increased with increasing age. Smokers were more likely to have high urinary cadmium than non-smokers. Persons who mainly consumed rice grown locally in the contaminated areas had higher urinary cadmium than those who did not. Persons who had high urinary cadmium levels and might have cadmium-induced toxic effects should be screened for early detection of chronic cadmium toxicity. Smoking cessation programs should be one component of preventive action beneficial for the study population. The production of rice and other crops for human consumption should be prohibited to prevent further accumulation of cadmium in the body of the exposed population.
17622268	The Rf-1 locus in rice is agriculturally important as it restores fertility in plants with BT-type cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS). The Rf-1 locus contains several duplicated copies of the gene responsible for restoration of fertility. We analyzed the genomic structure of the Rf-1 locus in the genus Oryza to clarify the structural diversity and evolution of the locus. We identified six genes (Rf-1A to Rf-1F) with homology to Rf-1 at this locus in Oryza species with an AA genome. The Rf-1 locus structures in the rice accessions examined were very complex and fell into at least six classification types. The nucleotide sequences of the duplicated genes and their flanking regions were highly conserved suggesting that the complex Rf-1 locus structures were produced by homologous recombination between the duplicated genes. The fact that complex Rf-1 locus structures were common to Oryza species that have evolved independently indicates that a duplication of the ancestral Rf-1 gene occurred early in rice evolution and that homologous recombination resulted in the diversification of Rf-1 locus structures. Additionally, the amino acid sequences of each duplicated gene were conserved between species. This suggests that the duplicated genes in the Rf-1 locus may have divergent functions and may act by controlling mitochondrial gene expression in rice as occurs in the restoration of CMS.
17622509	Rice is the most important staple food in the world. The rapid development of transgenic rice and its future commercialization have raised concerns regarding transgene flow and its potential environmental risk. It is known that rice is a self-pollinated crop; the outcrossing rate between common cultivars is generally less than 1%. In order to improve the detection sensitivity of rice transgene flow, a male sterile (ms) line BoA with a high outcrossing rate was used as a pollen detector in this study. A concentric circle design was adopted, in which the transgenic rice B2 containing bar gene as a pollen donor was planted in the center circle and the recipient BoA was planted in eight compass sectors. The frequency of transgene flow in compass sectors was analyzed by continuous sampling to generate cumulative data. The results of two years with sound reproducibility demonstrated that the rice gene flow was closely associated with the wind direction. According to the mean frequency of transgene flow, the eight sectors can be divided into two groups: a higher frequency group downstream of the prevailing wind (DPW) with a mean frequency ranging from 6.47 to 26.24%, and a lower frequency group lateral to or upstream of the prevailing wind (UPW) with a mean frequency of 0.39 to 3.03%. On the basis of the cumulative data, 90-96% of the cumulative gene flow events occurred in the four DPW sectors, while it was 4-10% in the four UPW sectors. By using these systematic data, simulation models and isograms of transgene flow in the eight compass sectors were calculated and drawn, respectively.
17623303	Rice spotted leaf 6 (spl6) mutant produces lesions caused by spontaneous cell death in the absence of pathogenic infection. Expression of this genetic trait was developmentally programmed. After the tillering stage, small red and brown lesions were initiated in groups on the leaf blade. Eventually, the lesions formed parallel lines along the midrib of the leaf. Under light and transmission electron microscopy, we observed that thylakoid membranes of mesophyll chloroplasts were progressively damaged in the nonspotted section of the mutant leaf. However, chloroplasts were absent in the mesophyll cells of the spotted area of the spl6 mutant. These results indicated that lesion formation of the spl6 mutant might be caused by oxidative burst. Proteome analysis revealed that 159 protein spots were up or downregulated in comparison between spotted leaves of the spl6 mutant plants and normal leaves of the wild type. Among them, protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), transketolase, thioredoxin peroxidase (TPX), ATP synthase, RuBisCO large subunit, and RuBisCO activase small subunit were not identified in the spl6 mutant but were abundant in the wild type. Especially, the absence of TPX and PDI might be the cause of the failure to protect cells against oxidative burst resulting in degradation of the thylakoid membranes and leading to programmed cell death and lesion development.
17625238	Clavulanic acid is a naturally occurring antibiotic produced by Streptomyces clavuligerus. The present work reports on clavulanic acid production by Streptomyces clavuligerus MTCC 1142 using one-factor-at-a-time and L(25) orthogonal array. The one-factor-at-a-time method was adopted to investigate the effect of media components (i.e., carbon source, nitrogen source and inoculum concentration) and environmental factors such as pH for clavulanic acid production. Production of clavulanic acid by Streptomyces clavuligerus was investigated using seven different carbon sources (viz. glucose, sucrose, modified starch, rice-bran oil, soybean oil, palm oil, and glycerol) and six different nitrogen sources (viz. peptone, yeast extract, ammonium chloride, ammonium carbonate, sodium nitrate and potassium nitrate). A maximum yield of 140 microg/mL clavulanic acid was obtained in the medium containing soybean oil as a carbon source and yeast extract as nitrogen source. Subsequently, the concentration of soybean flour, soybean oil, dextrin, yeast extract and K2HPO4 were optimized using L25 orthogonal array method. The final optimized medium produced 500 microg/mL clavulanic acid at the end of 96 h as compared to 140 microg/mL before optimization. Synthesis of precursor molecules as a metabolic driving force is of considerable importance in antibiotic synthesis. Attempts to increase the clavulanic acid synthesis by manipulating the anaplerotic flux on C(3) and C(5) precursors by supplementing the medium with arginine, ornithine, proline, valine, leucine, isoleucine, pyruvic acid and alpha-ketoglutarate were successful. Supplementing the optimized medium with 0.1 M arginine and 0.1 M leucine increased the yield of clavulanic acid further to 1100 microg/mL and 1384 microg/mL respectively.
17625566	Silicon is an important nutrient for the optimal growth and sustainable production of rice. Rice accumulates up to 10% silicon in the shoot, and this high accumulation is required to protect the plant from multiple abiotic and biotic stresses. A gene, Lsi1, that encodes a silicon influx transporter has been identified in rice. Here we describe a previously uncharacterized gene, low silicon rice 2 (Lsi2), which has no similarity to Lsi1. This gene is constitutively expressed in the roots. The protein encoded by this gene is localized, like Lsi1, on the plasma membrane of cells in both the exodermis and the endodermis, but in contrast to Lsi1, which is localized on the distal side, Lsi2 is localized on the proximal side of the same cells. Expression of Lsi2 in Xenopus oocytes did not result in influx transport activity for silicon, but preloading of the oocytes with silicon resulted in a release of silicon, indicating that Lsi2 is a silicon efflux transporter. The identification of this silicon transporter revealed a unique mechanism of nutrient transport in plants: having an influx transporter on one side and an efflux transporter on the other side of the cell to permit the effective transcellular transport of the nutrients.
17626623	Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers are highly informative and widely used for genetic and breeding studies in several plant species. They are used for cultivar identification, variety protection, as anchor markers in genetic mapping, and in marker-assisted breeding. Currently, a limited number of SSR markers are publicly available for perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne). We report on the exploitation of a comprehensive EST collection in L. perenne for SSR identification. The objectives of this study were 1) to analyse the frequency, type, and distribution of SSR motifs in ESTs derived from three genotypes of L. perenne, 2) to perform a comparative analysis of SSR motif polymorphisms between allelic sequences, 3) to conduct a comparative analysis of SSR motif polymorphisms between orthologous sequences of L. perenne, Festuca arundinacea, Brachypodium distachyon, and O. sativa, 4) to identify functionally associated EST-SSR markers for application in comparative genomics and breeding. From 25,744 ESTs, representing 8.53 megabases of nucleotide information from three genotypes of L. perenne, 1,458 ESTs (5.7%) contained one or more SSRs. Of these SSRs, 955 (3.7%) were non-redundant. Tri-nucleotide repeats were the most abundant type of repeats followed by di- and tetra-nucleotide repeats. The EST-SSRs from the three genotypes were analysed for allelic- and/or genotypic SSR motif polymorphisms. Most of the SSR motifs (97.7%) showed no polymorphisms, whereas 22 EST-SSRs showed allelic- and/or genotypic polymorphisms. All polymorphisms identified were changes in the number of repeat units. Comparative analysis of the L. perenne EST-SSRs with sequences of Festuca arundinacea, Brachypodium distachyon, and Oryza sativa identified 19 clusters of orthologous sequences between these four species. Analysis of the clusters showed that the SSR motif generally is conserved in the closely related species F. arundinacea, but often differs in length of the SSR motif. In contrast, SSR motifs are often lost in the more distant related species B. distachyon and O. sativa. The results indicate that the L. perenne EST-SSR markers are a valuable resource for genetic mapping, as well as evaluation of co-location between QTLs and functionally associated markers.
17626817	We studied the influence of cereal, heat processing of the cereal, and inclusion of additional fiber in the diet on the productive performance and digestive traits of broilers from 1 to 21 d of age. Twelve treatments were arranged factorially, with 2 cereals (corn and rice), 2 heat-processing treatments of the cereals (raw and cooked), and 3 sources of fiber (none, 3% oat hulls, and 3% soy hulls). Each treatment was replicated 6 (trial 1) or 3 (trial 2) times. Growth traits were recorded in both trials; digestive traits were measured in trial 1, and total tract apparent retention (TTAR) of nutrients was determined in trial 2. Feeding rice improved TTAR of all nutrients and feed conversion from 1 to 21 d of age (P <or= 0.001). In addition, feeding rice increased the pH of gizzard digesta (P <or= 0.001) and reduced the relative weight (RW) of most digestive organs. Heat processing had little effect on the growth or size of digestive organs but improved the TTAR of most nutrients in the corn diets. Fiber inclusion improved the TTAR of most nutrients, BW gain (P <or= 0.01), and feed conversion (P <or= 0.001) from 1 to 21 d of age. In addition, fiber inclusion increased the RW of the gizzard (P <or= 0.001), ceca (P <or= 0.05), and digestive tract (P <or= 0.01) and reduced digesta pH (P <or= 0.001) and the length of the small intestine (P <or= 0.05). The effects of hulls on RW of the gizzard and on the TTAR were more pronounced for the rice diets than for the corn diets. We concluded that rice can be used successfully in broiler diets and that heat processing of the cereal does not have any beneficial effect on broiler performance. The inclusion of moderate amounts of fiber in low-fiber diets might improve chick performance at early ages by reducing gizzard pH and improving the utilization of nutrients. Therefore, young broiler chicks might require a minimal amount of fiber in the diet.
17628621	A search was made for conjugates of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in rice (Oryza sativa) using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) in order to elucidate unknown metabolic pathways for IAA. N-beta-d-Glucopyranosyl indole-3-acetic acid (IAA-N-Glc) was found in an alkaline hydrolysate of rice extract. A quantitative analysis of 3-week-old rice demonstrated that the total amount of IAA-N-Glc was equal to that of IAA. A LC-ESI-MS/MS-based analysis established that the major part of IAA-N-Glc was present as bound forms with aspartate and glutamate. Their levels were in good agreement with the total amount of IAA-N-Glc during the vegetative growth of rice. Further detailed analysis showed that both conjugates highly accumulated in the root. The free form of IAA-N-Glc accounted for 60% of the total in seeds but could not be detected in the vegetative tissue. An incorporation study using deuterium-labeled compounds showed that the amino acid conjugates of IAA-N-Glc were biosynthesized from IAA-amino acids. IAA-N-Glc and/or its conjugates were also found in extracts of Arabidopsis, Lotus japonicus, and maize, suggesting that N-glucosylation of indole can be the common metabolic pathway of IAA in plants.
17629255	We investigate the dependence of the branching ratio of formaldehyde dissociation to molecular and radical products on the total energy and angular momentum and the HCO rotational state distributions by using a combination of transition state/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and phase space theory. Comparisons are made with recent quasiclassical trajectory (QCT) calculations [Farnum, J. D.; Zhang, X.; Bowman, J. M. J. Chem. Phys. 2007, 126, 134305]. The combined phase-space analysis is in semiquantitative agreement with the QCT results for the rotational distributions of HCO but is only in qualitative agreement for the branching ratio. Nevertheless, that level of agreement serves to provide insight into the QCT results, which showed suppression of the radical channel with increasing total angular momentum for a fixed total energy.
17629420	Synonymous codon usage and cellular tRNA abundance are thought to be co-evolved in optimizing translational efficiencies in highly expressed genes. Here in this communication by taking the advantage of publicly available gene expression data of rice and Arabidopsis we demonstrated that tRNA gene copy number is not the only driving force favoring translational selection in all highly expressed genes of rice. We found that forces favoring translational selection differ between GC-rich and GC-poor classes of genes. Supporting our results we also showed that, in highly expressed genes of GC-poor class there is a perfect correspondence between majority of preferred codons and tRNA gene copy number that confers translational efficiencies to this group of genes. However, tRNA gene copy number is not fully consistent with models of translational selection in GC-rich group of genes, where constraints on mRNA secondary structure play a role to optimize codon usage in highly expressed genes.
17629421	SBP-box proteins are plant-specific putative transcription factors, which contain highly conserved SBP domain and could bind specifically to promoters of the floral meristem identity gene SQUAMOSA and its orthologous genes to regulate their expressions. In this study, 17 non-redundant SBP-box genes in Arabidopsis genome and 19 in rice genome were identified by using the known SBP domain sequences as queries. The phylogenetic analysis suggested that the main characteristics of this family might have been in existence before the split of Arabidopsis and rice, and most SBP-box genes expanded in a species-specific manner after the split of monocotyledon and dicotyledon. All the SBP-box proteins were classified into 9 subgroups based on the phylogenetic tree, where each group shared similar motifs and the orders of the motifs in the same group were found almost identical. Analysis of nonsynonymous and synonymous substitution rates revealed that the SBP domain had gone through purifying selection, whereas some regions outside SBP domain had gone through positive or relaxed purifying selection. The expression patterns of the SBP-box genes were further investigated by searching against the EST database. Results showed that the Arabidopsis SBP-box genes are expressed chiefly in flowers, leaves, roots and seeds, while those in rice mainly in flowers and callus.
17629617	This work presents a new approach to predict heats of sublimation of nitroaromatic compounds derived from their molecular structure information. The number of carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen atoms as well as the contribution of some specific groups attached to aromatic ring would be needed in the new method. Predicted heats of sublimation for 40 nitroaromatic compounds are compared with experimental data. Calculated results for some nitroaromatic compounds are also compared with complicated quantum mechanical computations of Rice et al. [B. M. Rice, S. V. Pai, J. Hare, Combust. Flame 118 (1999) 445] where computed outputs were available. The root mean square deviation (rms) from experiment for the predicted heats of sublimation of 40 compounds by new method is 7.78 kJ/mol with a maximum deviation of 18.52 kJ/mol. The rms deviations of new procedure and reported quantum mechanical method for six nitroaromatic compounds are 9.19 and 10.18 kJ/mol, respectively.
17629935	The recent discoveries of transposable elements carrying host gene fragments such as the Pack-MULEs (Mutator-like transposable elements) of maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana, the Helitrons of maize and the Tgm-Express of soybeans, revealed a widespread genetic mechanism with the potential to rearrange genomes and create novel chimeric genes affecting genomic and proteomic diversity. Not much is known with regard to the mechanisms of gene fragment capture by those transposon elements or the expression of the captured host gene fragments. There is some evidence that chimeric transcripts can be assembled and exist in EST collections. We report results obtained from analysis of RT-PCR derived cDNAs of the Glycine max mutant flower color gene, wp, that contains a 5.7-kb transposon (Tgm-Express1) in Intron 2 of the flavanone 3-hydroxylase gene (F3H) and is composed of five unrelated host gene fragments. The collection of cDNAs derived from the wp allele represents a multiplicity of processed RNAs varying in length and sequence that includes some identical to the correctly processed mature F3H transcript with three properly spliced exons. Surprisingly, the five gene fragments carried by the Tgm-Express1 were processed through complex alternative splicing as additional exons of the wp transcript. The gene fragments carried by the Tgm inverted repeat ends appear to be retained as functional exons/introns within the element. The spliceosomes then select indiscriminately the canonical intron splice sites from a pre-mRNA to assemble diverse chimeric transcripts from the exons contained in the wp allele. The multiplicity and randomness of these events provide some insights into the origin and mechanism of alternatively spliced genes.
17630290	Zinc (Zn), an essential nutrient in cells, plays a vital role in controlling cellular processes such as growth, development, and differentiation. Although the mechanisms of Zn translocation in rice plants (Oryza sativa) are not fully understood, it has recently received increased interest. OsZIP4 is a Zn transporter that localizes to apical cells. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing the OsZIP4 gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter were produced. The Zn concentration in roots of 35S-OsZIP4 transgenic plants was 10 times higher than in those of vector controls, but it was five times lower in shoots. The Zn concentration in seeds of 35S-OsZIP4 plants was four times lower compared with vector controls. Northern blot analysis and quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR revealed transcripts of OsZIP4 expression driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in roots and shoots of 35S-OsZIP4 plants, but levels of endogenous OsZIP4 transcripts were low in roots and high in shoots compared with vector controls. Microarray analysis revealed that the genes expressed in shoots of 35S-OsZIP4 plants coincided with those induced in shoots of Zn-deficient plants. These results indicate that constitutive expression of OsZIP4 changes the Zn distribution within rice plants, and that OsZIP4 is a critical Zn transporter that must be strictly regulated.
17630767	The stability of free tryptophan (Trp) was examined in five cookie-resembling models at varying baking temperatures and durations. Trp was measured by HPLC coupled with a fluorescent detector. Trp degradation was significantly greater in cookies formulated with glucose compared with sucrose, regardless of the temperatures and durations of baking. A lag period was clearly observed in cookies formulated with sucrose. The type of sugar used in the dough formulation affected not only the thermal destruction kinetics but also the degree of degradation of free Trp. However, the type of leavening agent (ammonium bicarbonate versus sodium bicarbonate) did not affect the rate of Trp destruction as happens in Maillard-driven reactions. In addition, the free Trp content was analyzed in nine different flours and sixty-two commercial cookies, and it was found that free Trp varied from 0.4 to 1287.9 mg/kg for rice and wheat bran, respectively. It was found that free Trp was significantly higher in dietetic commercial samples formulated with wheat bran compared with other flours.
17631411	A simple and sensitive kinetic-spectrophotometric method is developed for the determination of trace vanadium(V), based on the catalytic effect of vanadium(V) on the oxidation of DBM-arsenazo by potassium bromate in 0.0138 moll(-1) phosphoric acid medium and at 100 degrees C in the presence of citric acid as activator. The absorbance is measured at 528 nm with the fixed-time method. The optimization of the operating conditions regarding concentrations of the reagents, temperature and interferences are also investigated. The working curve is linear over the concentration range 0-20 ngml(-1) of vanadium(V) with good precision and accuracy and the detection limit was down to 3.44 ngl(-1). The relative standard deviation for a standard solution of 14 ngml(-1) is 0.28% (n=11). The apparent activity energies of the catalytic reaction and the non-catalytic reaction are 73.48, 113.5 kJ/mol, respectively. The proposed method proved highly sensitive, selective and relatively rapid for the assay of vanadium at low-level range of 0-20 ngml(-1) without any pre-concentration step. Thw method was applied to the determination of vanadium(V) in steels, rice, flour, cabbage, potato, fish, shrimp and tea samples with satisfactory results. The obtained results for the steel samples were excellent agreement with the standard reference values. The analytical results of the rice, flour, cabbage, potato, fish, shrimp and tea samples were excellent agreement with those of atomic absorption spectrometry. The recovery experiments have been made for the rice, flour, cabbage, potato, fish, shrimp and tea samples except the steels; excellent results were obtained. The relative standard deviations were over the range of 0.18-2.60% and the recoveries were over the range of 98.00-102.4%, respectively. The analytical results obtained were satisfactory.
17633184	To obtain the community that could accelerate the fermentation of the air-dried crop straws, a lactic acid bacteria community SFC-2 was constructed from the natural fermented products of the corn straw and rice straw by continuous restricted subcultivation in the MRS-S broth. The SFC-2 could lower the pH of the broth quickly, and produce high amount of lactic acid. The microbial composition of the SFC-2 became stable from the 25th generation according to the results of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The pH value of the SFC-2 dropped to 3.8 and the amount of lactic acid reached 10.64 mg x mL(-1) after 12 h cultivation in the broth, which contained 64% L-(+) lactic acid. Using morphological methods, four strains were isolated from the SFC-2 and they all belonged to Lactobacillus. The closest species were L. fermentum, L. plantarum, L. paracasei and L. paracasei sub sp., respectively. At the same time, the composition of the SFC-2 was also analyzed by constructing 16S rDNA clone library. The results of 16S rDNA sequencing showed that the closest species of seven clones were mainly L. fermentum, L. plantarum and L. paracasei. In clone libraries, 76.3% belonged to L. fermentum, 20.3% belonged to L. plantarum and 3.4% belonged to L. paracasei.
17633187	Upland rice was selected as a host plant in a greenhouse-pot-culture experiment to investigate the effects of chlorothalonil and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) on the growth and oxidative damage under chlorothalonil stress. The plants were grown with three concentrations of chlorothalonil (0, 50 and 100 mg x kg(-1) soil). The results suggested that chlorothalonil inhibited the growth of upland rice and reduced dry weight of upland rice shoot from 2.5 g x pot(-1) to 1.0 g x pot(-1), and the root dry weight was reduced from 0.9 g x pot(-1) to 0.3 g x pot(-1). However, with AMF colonization the dry weight of upland rice was increased to 2.1 g x pot(-1). With 50 mg x kg(-1) chlorothalonil addition, the P uptake was reduced from 3200 microg x pot(-1) to 860 microg x pot(-1), but the AMF colonization could increased the P uptake to 1900 microg x pot(-1). Chlorothalonil induced oxidative stress indicating by the changes in activities of antioxidative enzyme and AMF colonization could alleviate the oxidative stress. These results showed that chlorothalonil induced oxidative stress and inhibited P uptake in upland rice and AMF could decrease the side effects of chlorothalonil by increasing P uptake and decreasing oxidative damages.
17633195	Biohydrogen production from straw by anaerobic fermentation of digested sludge was studied. The influence of the main parameters such as particle size, the ratio of substrate to cellulase, pretreatment method and pH on the straw fermentation was investigated. With NaOH pretreatment, the rice straw with average particle size of 170 tm was fermented after hydrolyzed by cellulase with the ratio of substrate to cellulase as 1:1. And its maximal velocity and the total volume of hydrogen are respectively 0.58 mL/(h x g) and 90.5 m/g.
17634180	The rice CM2088 mutant is the wilty phenotype and wilts markedly under well-watered sunny conditions. The leaf water potential and epidermal (mainly stomatal) conductance of CM2088 plants decreased significantly under conditions that induced intense transpiration, as compared with those of wild-type plants, revealing that the wilty phenotype was not the result of abnormal stomatal behavior but was due to an increase in resistance to water transport. The resistance to water transport was dramatically elevated in the node and the sheath and blade of a leaf of the mutant, but not in the root or stem. The diameter of xylem vessels in the large vascular bundles of the leaf sheath and the internode tended to be small, and the numbers of vessel elements with narrowed or scalariform perforation plates in the leaf blade and sheath were greater in the mutant than in the wild type. Most xylem vessels were occluded, with air bubbles in the leaf sheath of the mutant during the midday hours under intense transpiration conditions, while no bubbles were observed in plants that were barely transpiring, revealing that the significant increase in resistance to water transport was a result of the cavitation. The additive effects of cavitation in xylem vessels and the decreased diameter and deformed plates of vessel elements might be responsible for the wilty phenotype of CM2088.
1763435	An experiment was conducted to study the effects of feeding urea-treated rice straw to lactating buffaloes in the Koshi Hills. Six pairs of similar buffaloes on farms were selected. All were given a conventional diet based on rice straw for four weeks, then one of each pair was given 15 to 20 kg/day of urea-treated rice straw for a period of four weeks while the control group received untreated rice straw. In the final four week period all animals were given the conventional diet. Feeding straw treated with 4% urea increased the voluntary intake of straw by 25% and increased milk yield by 1.6 litres/day compared with buffaloes fed the conventional diet containing untreated straw. Milk production remained elevated after the four-week treatment period had finished. The results show that buffalo cows fed urea-treated straw achieved better weight gain, and milk yield increased significantly (P less than 0.01) compared with the control animals. During the treatment period the net benefit was 4.0 (i.e. US$1.16) Nepalese currency rupees (NCRs) per day and the incremental rate of return was 46 per cent. Moreover, in the four weeks following the treatment period the net benefit was 10.0 NCRs (i.e. US$0.40) per day. Ensiling rice straw with 4% urea can be recommended as a safe, economical and suitable method for improving the nutritional value of rice straw on small farms in Nepal thus increasing milk production and liveweight of lactating buffaloes. The practice of feeding urea-treated straw is economic for farmers during the dry season from January to April.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
17634747	Diterpenoid phytoalexins such as momilactones and phytocassanes are produced via geranylgeranyl diphosphate in suspension-cultured rice cells after treatment with a chitin elicitor. We have previously shown that the production of diterpene hydrocarbons leading to phytoalexins and the expression of related biosynthetic genes are activated in suspension-cultured rice cells upon elicitor treatment. To better understand the elicitor-induced activation of phytoalexin biosynthesis, we conducted microarray analysis using suspension-cultured rice cells collected at various times after treatment with chitin elicitor. Hierarchical cluster analysis revealed two types of early-induced expression (EIE-1, EIE-2) nodes and a late-induced expression (LIE) node that includes genes involved in phytoalexins biosynthesis. The LIE node contains genes that may be responsible for the methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway, a plastidic biosynthetic pathway for isopentenyl diphosphate, an early precursor of phytoalexins. The elicitor-induced expression of these putative MEP pathway genes was confirmed by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. 1-Deoxy-D: -xylulose 5-phosphate synthase (DXS), 1-deoxy-D: -xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase (DXR), and 4-(cytidine 5'-diphospho)-2-C-methyl-D: -erythritol synthase (CMS), which catalyze the first three committed steps in the MEP pathway, were further shown to have enzymatic activities that complement the growth of E. coli mutants disrupted in the corresponding genes. Application of ketoclomazone and fosmidomycin, inhibitors of DXS and DXR, respectively, repressed the accumulation of diterpene-type phytoalexins in suspension cells treated with chitin elicitor. These results suggest that activation of the MEP pathway is required to supply sufficient terpenoid precursors for the production of phytoalexins in infected rice plants.
17635219	Glycine betaine (GB), a quaternary ammonium solute, plays a crucial role in developing osmotic tolerance. Rice contains a choline monooxygenase (CMO) and two betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase homologues that are required for GB synthesis, but usually no GB is accumulated in rice (Oryza sativa). To elucidate the molecular processes that underlie the GB deficiency in rice, an experiment involving rice and spinach (Spinacia oleracea) was conducted to analyze the products transcribed from CMO genes. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to obtain CMO transcripts and a sequencing approach was employed to analyze the structural composition of various CMO transcripts. The results showed that most rice CMO transcripts were processed incorrectly, retaining introns or deleted of coding sequences; the unusual deletion events occurred at sequence elements of the short-direct repeats. In conclusion, the production of incorrect CMO transcripts results in a deficiency of the full-length CMO protein and probably reduces GB accumulation considerably in rice plants. Sequence comparison results also implied that the unusual deletion-site selection might be mediated by the short-direct repeats in response to stress conditions.
17635767	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) negatively control gene expression by cleaving or inhibiting the translation of mRNA of target genes, and as such, they play an important role in plant development. Of the 79 plant miRNA families discovered to date, most are from the fully sequenced plant genomes of Arabidopsis, Populus and rice. Here, we identified miRNAs from leaves, roots, stems and flowers at different developmental stages of the basal eudicot species Eschscholzia californica (California poppy) using cloning and capillary sequencing, as well as ultrahigh-throughput pyrosequencing using the recently introduced 454 sequencing method. In total, we identified a minimum of 173 unique miRNA sequences belonging to 28 miRNA families and seven trans-acting small interfering RNAs (ta-siRNAs) conserved in eudicot and monocot species. miR529 and miR537, which have not yet been reported in eudicot species, were detected in California poppy; loci encoding these miRNAs were also found in Arabidopsis and Populus. miR535, which occurs in the moss Physcomitrella patens, was also detected in California poppy, but not in other angiosperms. Several potential miRNA targets were found in cDNA sequences of California poppy. Predicted target genes include transcription factors but also genes implicated in various metabolic processes and in stress defense. Comparative analysis of miRNAs from plants of phylogenetically-critical basal lineages aid the study of the evolutionary gains and losses of miRNAs in plants as well as their conservation, and lead to discoveries about the miRNAs of even well-studied model organisms.
17636662	Oral rehydration therapy is used to treat dehydration caused by diarrhoea. However the rehydration solution does not reduce stool loss or length of illness. A solution able to do this may lessen the use of ineffective diarrhoea treatments as well as improve morbidity and mortality related to diarrhoea. The objective of this review was to assess the effects of rice-based oral rehydration salts solution compared with glucose-based oral rehydration salts solution on reduction of stool output and duration of diarrhoea in patients with acute watery diarrhoea. We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group trials register, the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, Medline, Embase, Lilacs and the reference lists of relevant articles. We also contacted researchers in the field. Randomized trials comparing standard World Health Organization oral rehydration solution with an experimental oral rehydration salts solution in which glucose (20 grams per litre) was replaced by 50-80 grams per litre of rice powder, with the electrolytes remaining unchanged. Data were extracted independently by a statistician and a clinician. Twenty-two trials were included. Concealment of allocation was adequate in 15 of these trials. Irrespective of age, people with cholera who were given rice oral rehydration salts solution had substantially lower rates of stool loss than those given oral rehydration salts solution in the first 24 hours. Mean stool outputs in the first 24 hours were lower by 67 millilitres/kg of body weight (weighted mean difference -67.40, 95% confidence interval -94.26 to -41.53) in children, and by 51 millilitres/kg of body weight (weighted mean difference -51.07, 95% confidence interval -65.87 to -36.27) in adults. The rate of stool loss in infants and children with acute non-cholera diarrhoea was reduced by only four millilitres/kg of body weight (weighted mean difference -4.29, 95% confidence interval -9.36 to 0.78). Rice-based oral rehydration appears to be effective in reducing stool output in people with cholera. This effect was not apparent in infants and children with non-cholera diarrhoea.
17636932	Using dioscorea root as substrate of Monascus species was found to stimulate monacolin K (cholesterol-lowering agent) formation in our previous study, but the mycotoxin-citrinin has never been studied. This study used dioscorea root as the liquid medium to culture Monascus purpureus NTU 568 using a 6.6 L jar fermentor. Culture pH value, dioscorea concentration, and ethanol concentration were used as the factors of response surface methodology (RSM) to investigate the optimal culture condition for high monacolin K production and low citrinin formation. Monacolin K and citrinin formation of M. purpureus NTU 568 under submerged dioscorea medium were respectively found to be significantly formed by 148% and 147%, as compared to that under submerged rice medium. The reason is due to the pH value (3.5) of dioscorea medium involved in the formation of Monascus cell amount and secondary metabolite. RSM results further indicated that lowering the pH value to 2.5 would result in high monacolin K and citrinin concentrations as well as high biomass in fixed dioscorea amount, implying that pH value may stimulate the formation of monacolin K and citrinin through increasing Monascus cell amount. Lowering dioscorea and ethanol concentration was able to increase the ratio of monacolin K level to citrinin level. The optimal culture condition (pH 5.7, 1% dioscorea concentration, and 0.5% ethanol concentration) would increase monacolin K levels to 27.9 mg/g (by 47%) and decrease citrinin level to 2.15 microg/g (by 54%), as compared to control conditions (pH 3.5, 5% dioscorea, and ethanol free).
17636935	Physicochemistry and structural studies of two types of japonica rice, low amylose Calmochi-101 (CM101) and intermediate amylose M-202 (M202), were conducted to determine similarities and differences between the rices perhaps attributable to amylose content differences. The rheological behavior of the gelation and pasting processes of flours and starches was determined with high accuracy and precision using a controlled stress rheometer. Fat and protein, although minor constituents of milled rice, were shown to have significant effects on the physicochemical and pasting properties of starches and flours. Removal of protein and lipids with aqueous alkaline or detergent solutions caused lower pasting temperatures and higher overall viscosity in both starches, compared with their respective flours. There was less viscosity difference between M202 flour and its starch when isolated by enzymatic hydrolysis of protein. The protease did not reduce internally bound lipids, suggesting that fats help to determine pasting properties of rice flours and their respective starches. Structural integrity differences in individual granules of waxy and nonwaxy rice flours, starches, and whole raw, soaked, and cooked milled grain were revealed by fracture analysis and scanning electron microscopy. Calmochi 101 and M202 did not differ in weight-averaged molar mass (Mw) and root-mean-square radii (Rz) between flours and starches, as determined by high-performance size exclusion chromatography (HPSEC) and multiple-angle laser light scattering (MALLS) (Park, I.; Ibanez, A. M.; Shoemaker, C. F. Starch 2007, 59, 69-77).
17637467	The ability of different local isolates in addition to some isolates from Germany to degrade kerosene in liquid medium was studied. The results showed that the percent of kerosene degradation varied among the different organisms and that 59-94% of kerosene was degraded after 21d. Two local isolates (Pseudomonas sp. AP and Pseudomonas sp. CK) and one German isolate (Gordonia sp. DM) were selected for this study. The addition of wheat bran, as co-substrate, stimulated the kerosene degradation by the two local strains, while glucose inhibited the degradation rate using the three organisms with different rates. Ammonium nitrate and urea was the best nitrogen sources. The use of superphosphate (as phosphorus source) in the presence of urea stimulates the degradation rate. It was also observed that the addition of 1% surfactants, like Triton X-100, Igepal, Tergitol, or Tween 20 and 80 enhanced the kerosene degradation. The degradation percent lied between 94% and 98%. The ability of the tested organisms to degrade kerosene concentration from 2% to 8% was evaluated. It was found that the three organisms degraded about 65-85% from 8% kerosene after 21d. The use of rice straw-immobilized cells reduced the time of degradation and enhanced the degradation ability of the organisms. The sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of a common protein band when the tested organisms were grown on kerosene.
17638114	Hydrilla verticillata has a facultative single-cell system that changes from C3 to C4 photosynthesis. A NADP+-dependent malic enzyme (NADP-ME) provides a high [CO2] for Rubisco fixation in the C4 leaf chloroplasts. Of three NADP-ME genes identified, only hvme1 was up-regulated in the C4 leaf, during the light period, and it possessed a putative transit peptide. Unlike obligate C4 species, H. verticillata exhibited only one plastidic isoform that may perform housekeeping functions, but is up-regulated as the photosynthetic decarboxylase. Of the two cytosolic forms, hvme2 and hvme3, the latter exhibited the greatest expression, but was not light-regulated. The mature isoform of hvme1 had a pI of 6.0 and a molecular mass of 64 kD, as did the recombinant rHVME1m, and it formed a tetramer in the chloroplast. The recombinant photosynthetic isoform showed intermediate characteristics between isoforms in terrestrial C3 and C4 species. The catalytic efficiency of rHVME1m was four-fold higher than the cytosolic rHVME3 and two-fold higher than recombinant cytosolic isoforms of rice, but lower than plastidic forms of maize. The Km (malate) of 0.6 mM for rHVME1 was higher than maize plastid isoforms, but four-fold lower than found with rice. A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of 25 taxa suggested that chloroplastic NADP-ME isoforms arose from four duplication events, and hvme1 was derived from cytosolic hvme3. The chloroplastic eudicot sequences were a monophyletic group derived from a cytosolic clade after the eudicot and monocot lineages separated, while the monocots formed a polyphyletic group. The findings support the hypothesis that a NADP-ME isoform with specific and unusual regulatory properties facilitates the functioning of the single-cell C4 system in H. verticillata.
17639323	Higher accumulation of toxic heavy metals in rice grown in agricultural soil may lead to health disorder. A field experiment was carried out to investigate uptake and translocation of Cd, Cr, Pb, As, and Hg by different parts of rice plant in various irrigation regions. The results showed the rice grain contained significantly lower amounts of five metals than straw and root in all sampling sites. Rice root accumulated Cd, As, and Hg from the paddy soil. Moreover, the rice plant transported As very weakly, whereas Hg was transported most easily into the straw and grain among studied heavy metals.
17639514	Roundup Ready soy contains the CP4-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (CP4 EPSPS) protein. Serum IgE from two distinct populations of soy-allergic patients were recruited to determine their IgE-binding specificity. One population consisted of 10 adult patients from Europe, whose primary diagnosis was soy food allergy with some also having mite allergy. In addition, 6 primarily mite-allergic, 6 food-allergic (celery, carrot, milk, shrimp, walnut, and apple), and 5 non-allergic patients were tested. Another population consisted of 13 children from Korea, whose primary diagnosis was atopic dermatitis and secondarily soy and egg sensitization. In addition, 11 non-allergic patients were tested. Each patient population was extensively characterized with respect to clinical symptoms, specific IgE (CAP) scores, and total IgE. Immunoblots and ELISA assays were developed using serum IgE from these patients and soy extracts, CP4 EPSPS, rice extract, ovalbumin, rubisco, purified major peanut allergen Ara h 2, the putative soy allergen Gly m Bd 30k and mite allergen Der f 2 proteins as the intended targets. Immunoblot results indicated that soy-allergic patients bound soy extracts but did not specifically bind rubisco or CP4 EPSPS. ELISA results were in general agreement with the immunoblot results except that rubisco bound significant quantities of serum IgE from some patients. These results indicate that the CP4 EPSPS protein does not bind significant quantities of IgE from two geographically distinct sensitive populations and there is no evidence for an increased allergenic potential of this biotech protein.
1763961	The author made an assessment in his first report, regarding relationship to the degree of skin involvement. As a result, it was suggested that the extent of eczema is a good index for determining the severity of the allergy and also that the severity of the allergy early in the infancy has a good correlation with egg white.specific IgE antibody. Therefore, an assessment had been made this time regarding the clinical characteristics of 32 infants who have strong reactions (egg white.RAST 4+) to egg white. The results were as follows; 1. All the infants with egg white.RAST 4+ had a systemic eczema, and their IgE antibodies showed high values of 445.6 +/- 626.9 IU/ml. 2. There were many cases with positive multiple allergens. Particularly, all the infants with egg white.RAST 1+ - 2+ were negative to rice and wheat, while 7 cases positive RAST score to rice and 9 cases to wheat were seen out of the 32 who showed the RAST 4+ to egg.white early in the infancy (rice; p less than 0.02 and wheat; p less than 0.01). 3. If the growth curves of the group from which egg and milk were completely eliminated are compared with the curves of the healthy infants, the height and head circumference were entirely in the normal range while the weight and Kaup index had a trend of being a little low, though they were within the normal range. 4. Regarding family history of allergies, past histories of atopic dermatitis on the mother's side were observed at a high rate.
17639995	Although most rice cultivars have whitish kernel, some varieties have a red testa. Aim of this work was to compare the total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and the antioxidant chemical composition (namely tocols, gamma-oryzanols, and polyphenols) of red and white rices. In addition, the effect of milling and cooking on antioxidants was investigated in both rices. Dehulled red rice showed a TAC more than three times greater than dehulled white rice and its high TAC was essentially characterized by the presence of proanthocyanidins (PA) and associated phenolics. Milling caused a significant loss of TAC, even if red rice maintained a higher TAC. Cooking caused a further loss of antioxidants, but when there was a full uptake of cooking water by the grains ("risotto") this loss was limited. Thus, the consumption of whole or partially milled rice cooked as risotto would be preferred to preserve its nutritional properties.
17640358	MADS-box transcription factors, besides being involved in floral organ specification, have also been implicated in several aspects of plant growth and development. In recent years, there have been reports on genomic localization, protein motif structure, phylogenetic relationships, gene structure and expression of the entire MADS-box family in the model plant system, Arabidopsis. Though there have been some studies in rice as well, an analysis of the complete MADS-box family along with a comprehensive expression profiling was still awaited after the completion of rice genome sequencing. Furthermore, owing to the role of MADS-box family in flower development, an analysis involving structure, expression and functional aspects of MADS-box genes in rice and Arabidopsis was required to understand the role of this gene family in reproductive development. A genome-wide molecular characterization and microarray-based expression profiling of the genes encoding MADS-box transcription factor family in rice is presented. Using a thorough annotation exercise, 75 MADS-box genes have been identified in rice and categorized into MIKCc, MIKC*, Malpha, Mbeta and Mgamma groups based on phylogeny. Chromosomal localization of these genes reveals that 16 MADS-box genes, mostly MIKCc-type, are located within the duplicated segments of the rice genome, whereas most of the M-type genes, 20 in all, seem to have resulted from tandem duplications. Nine members belonging to the Mbeta group, which was considered absent in monocots, have also been identified. The expression profiles of all the MADS-box genes have been analyzed under 11 temporal stages of panicle and seed development, three abiotic stress conditions, along with three stages of vegetative development. Transcripts for 31 genes accumulate preferentially in the reproductive phase, of which, 12 genes are specifically expressed in seeds, and six genes show expression specific to panicle development. Differential expression of seven genes under stress conditions is also evident. An attempt has been made to gain insight into plausible functions of rice MADS-box genes by collating the expression data of functionally validated genes in rice and Arabidopsis. Only a limited number of MADS genes have been functionally validated in rice. A comprehensive annotation and transcriptome profiling undertaken in this investigation adds to our understanding of the involvement of MADS-box family genes during reproductive development and stress in rice and also provides the basis for selection of candidate genes for functional validation studies.
17641976	Chromosomal coexpression domains are found in a number of different genomes under various developmental conditions. The size of these domains and the number of genes they contain vary. Here, we define local coexpression domains as adjacent genes where all possible pair-wise correlations of expression data are higher than 0.7. In rice, such local coexpression domains range from predominantly two genes, up to 4, and make up approximately 5% of the genomic neighboring genes, when examining different expression platforms from the public domain. The genes in local coexpression domains do not fall in the same ontology category significantly more than neighboring genes that are not coexpressed. Duplication, orientation or the distance between the genes does not solely explain coexpression. The regulation of coexpression is therefore thought to be regulated at the level of chromatin structure. The characteristics of the local coexpression domains in rice are strikingly similar to such domains in the Arabidopsis genome. Yet, no microsynteny between local coexpression domains in Arabidopsis and rice could be identified. Although the rice genome is not yet as extensively annotated as the Arabidopsis genome, the lack of conservation of local coexpression domains may indicate that such domains have not played a major role in the evolution of genome structure or in genome conservation.
17642286	Kanemi Yusho is the name given to a 1968 food poisoning incident resulting from the ingestion of PCB contaminated rice bran oil that had been used as a heating medium. At the time, victims presented with mainly cutaneous manifestations and various other symptoms such as of the eyes and teeth, general fatigue, headaches, and paresthesia of the extremities. The characteristic symptoms then resolved with time. Yusho patients have been followed from immediately after the incident. Blood levels of dioxins such as PeCDF have been measured for those who wishing to since 2001. The presence or absence of relationships between blood PeCDF level and various examination items/symptoms was investigated in 359 subjects whose blood levels of PCB-related chemical compounds such as PeCDF were measured in the Yusho related examinations between 2001 and 2003. Characteristic symptoms were also compared with the results of examinations done 15 years previously. The average blood 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF level in designated Yusho patients was 177.50 pg/g lipids; showing a markedly higher value than that of the normal control group (15.2 pg/g lipids). As well, the blood PeCDF level was related to PCB level, hexachlorobiphenyl level, urinary sugar, erythrocyte sedimetation rate (ESR) (2-hour), thymol and Na. There were also relationships with cutaneous findings (acneiform eruption and comedones), mucosal findings (oral pigmentation), constipation, numbness in the extremities, body weight loss, and abnormal abdominal ultrasonography. Symptoms seen in the skin and eyes in 2001 and 2003 had decreased compared with those in seen 1988. However, PCB and blood PeCDF levels remained high. Patients are continuing to present with mucosal and subjective symptoms as chronic conditions.
17642291	Kanemi Yusho was a food poisoning incident caused by rice bran oil that occurred in western Japan, particularly in northern Kyushu, in 1968. It is difficult to determine the symptoms in patients after many years since the occurrence. Techniques for measuring blood dioxins have advanced recently. More accurate data measurement has now become possible, and techniques for mass data analysis, such as data mining, have also advanced. It has also become possible to find unknown characteristics, even in an object group with elusive characteristics, by checking all the combinations in all the patients. There are already several reports on the incidence of symptoms in Yusho patients. These reports are limited to symptoms in a single period, and there has been no analysis taking into account the time that has elapsed. Here, we evaluated the relationship between recent and past symptoms and 2,3,4,7,8-penta-chlorodibenzofuran (PeCDF) levels in the same subject patient, in order to demonstrate the correlation between PeCDF levels and symptoms at a time point close to the incident. Subjects were examined for symptoms of Yusho and had blood PeCDF levels measured, both recently and in the past. Combinations were extracted using association analysis of data mining technique for comparison, which had strong correlations between the presence or absence of symptoms in the medical examination, tests including blood test, dermatological examination, dental examination and ophthalmologic examination in recent years (2001-2004) and the blood PeCDF levels and those between the presence or absence of past (1986-1989) symptoms and recent blood PeCDF levels. Subjects with higher PeCDF levels were more likely to present with pigmentation, a symptom included in the diagnostic criteria for Yusho. Pigmentation was a commonly found symptom in the past. Past pigmentation was a common symptom in the present. PeCDF levels were measured recently and therefore should not be compared directly with past symptoms. However, among the symptoms included in the diagnostic criteria, past symptoms tended to have a stronger relationship with PeCDF levels than did recent symptoms. We suggest that the present PeCDF level is strongly related to the past symptoms since the present PeCDF level is correlated with the past PeCDF level due to constant emission rate. More specifically, if the past PeCDF level is strongly related to the past symptoms, it can indirectly be concluded that the present PeCDF level is also strongly related to the past symptoms. Thus, the present PeCDF level cannot be related to the past symptoms directly but can indirectly. Combining recent and past symptoms further demonstrated that clinical symptoms are strongly related to PeCDF toxicity. This may have resulted from the increase in symptoms with aging, however, it was demonstrated that the symptoms of each patient were relieved and become obscure.
17642297	In this study, we examined the dioxin levels and congener distributions in blood samples of Yusho patients and normal control subjects, especially in relation to the respective exposure routes. Remarkable differences were observed between the blood of Yusho patients and general population in terms of both congener distributions and concentration levels. Cumulative dioxin intake for Yusho patients was estimated using the mean Yusho oil consumption and congener-specific dioxin contamination data for Yusho oil; for control subjects, it was estimated from food consumption and dioxin congener contamination data. Estimated total intake of dioxins was 2.44 microg-TEQ for control subjects and 357 microg-TEQ for Yusho patients, respectively. The total intake of some congeners such as 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF and 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF for Yusho patients was more than 100 times higher than those of control subjects. The congener distribution of PCB and PCDD in the blood of control subjects was similar to those of the food. In the case of Yusho patients, however, the congener distribution did not resemble those of either the food or the causal Kanemi rice oil, nor did not match that of control subjects' blood. Selective metabolizing of congeners was suggested to have occurred in the Yusho patients. In a 2001 fiscal year survey, the concentration ratio of TEQ between Yusho and normal subjects was 4.5. However, the level of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, thought to be the congener that had the closest relation to various symptoms of the Yusho patients, was ten times or more in Yusho patients than in controls. It is suggested that further examinations should be conducted in the future to follow up this survey monitoring the blood levels of toxic congeners in Yusho patients.
17642300	Thirty-eight years have passed since the outbreak of Kanemi rice oil poisoning, namely, Yusho in the western Japan. However, even now the patients with Yusho have been still suffering from several objective and subjective symptoms. In order to improve or, if possible, to cure the such symptoms, the most important therapeutic treatment is considered to actively excrete the causative agents, that is, polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) from the bodies of the patients and to reduce their body burdens. In rats, dietary fiber and chlorophyll have been shown to promote the fecal excretion of dioxins and to reduce their levels in rat liver. In this study, we examined whether such kinds of effect were also observed by FBRA, which was the health food and relatively rich with dietary fiber and chlorophyll, in eighteen patients with Yusho, which were divided into two groups, namely group A, ten patients (Male: 3 and Female: 7) with the mean age of 67.7 years old and group B, eight patients (Male: 4 and Female: 4) with the mean age of 64.1 years. Respective mean concentrations of the three PCDF congeners, that is, 2,3,4,7,8-PenCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF in the blood on whole weight basis just before initiating this study were as follows; group A: 1.36, 0.491 and 0.150 pg/g, and group B: 0.571, 0.159 and 0. 064 pg/g. Contamination levels of these PCDF congeners in group A were 2 to 3 times higher than those in group B. Group A took 7.0 to 10.5g of FBRA after each meal and tree times a day for the first one year and for second one year, they did not take FBRA any more. Group B took FBRA with the same manner as the group A only for the second one year. The concentrations of these PCDFs congeners in the blood of groups A and B were also measured at the end of first and second year, respectively. Assuming that the lipid content of the blood is 0.3% in order to convert their concentrations on whole weight basis to those on lipid weight basis and also that the body fat is contaminated with these PCDF congeners at their concentrations on lipid weight basis and the content of body fat is 20% of the body weight (60 kg), we computed the average amounts in the net excretion of these PCDF congeners from the body of the patients due to the intake of FBRA in groups A and B. As a result, in group A, 120, 372 and 96 ng/patient of 2,3,4,7,8-PenCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF, respectively, were excreted from the body of the patients. In group B, however, 36 ng/patient of 2,3,4,7,8-PenCDF only was excreted, but other two PCDF congeners were not. Accordingly, promotive excretion of theses PCDF congeners from the patients with Yusho seemed much effective in group A, of which their concentrations in the blood were much higher than those of group B.
17642302	The polychlorinated quaterphenyl (PCQ) concentrations in the blood are important discriminative parameters in Yusho patients. The blood samples of 81 persons were analyzed for PCQ in the 2005 annual inspection for Kanemi rice oil poisoning. PCQ was detected in 28 blood samples (ranging from 0.02 to 4.05 ppb). The means of PCQ concentration in the blood were 1.80 ppb (0.33-4.05 ppb) in pattern A, 0.71 ppb (<0.02-2.26 ppb) in pattern B, 0.03 ppb (< 0. 02-0.14 ppb) in pattern BC and 0.02 ppb (<0.02-0.45 ppb) in pattern C, respectively. PCQ was still present at high concentration in the blood of patterns A and B. Since PCQ concentration is a useful diagnostic criteria, it is important to follow up on this survey of blood PCQ levels.
17643946	QTLs for heading date of rice (Oryza sativa L.) with additive, epistatic, and QTL x environment (QE) interaction effects were studied using a mixed-model-based composite interval mapping (MCIM) method and a double haploid (DH) population derived from IR64/Azucena in two crop seasons. Fourteen QTLs conferring heading date in rice, which were distributed on ten chromosomes except for chromosomes 5 and 9, were detected. Among these QTLs, eight had single-locus effects, five pairs had double-locus interaction effects, and two single-loci and one pair of double-loci showed QTL x environment interaction effects. All predicted values of QTL effects varied from 1.179 days to 2.549 days, with corresponding contribution ratios of 1.04%-4.84%. On the basis of the effects of the QTLs, the total genetic effects on rice heading date for the two parents and the two superior lines were predicted, and the putative reasons for discrepancies between predicted values and observed values, and the genetic potentiality in the DH population for improvement of heading date were discussed. These results are in agreement with previous results for heading date in rice, and the results provide further information, which indicate that both epistasis and QE interaction are important genetic basis for determining heading date in rice.
17643947	Pingxiang dominant genic male sterile rice (PDGMSR) was the first dominant genic male sterile mutant identified in rice (Oryza sativa L.), and the corresponding dominant genic male sterile gene was designated as Ms-p. The fertility of PDGMSR can be restored by introduction of a dominant epistatic fertility restoring gene in some rice varieties. In the present study, E823, an indica inbred rice variety, restored the fertility of PDGMSR, and the genetic pattern was found to be consistent with a dominant epistatic model, therefore, the dominant epistatic fertility restorer gene was designated as Rfe. The F2 population from the cross of PDGMSR/E823 was developed to map gene Rfe. The F2 plants with the genotypes Ms-pMs-pRferfe or Ms-pms-pRferfe were used to construct a fertile pool, and the corresponding sterile plants with genotypes Ms-pMs-prferfe or Ms-pms-prferfe were used to construct a sterile pool. The fertility restoring gene Rfe was mapped to one side of the microsatellite markers RM311 and RM3152 on rice chromosome 10, with genetic distances of 7.9 cM and 3.6 cM, respectively. The microsatellite markers around the location of the Ms-p gene were used to finely map the Ms-p gene. The findings of this study indicated that the microsatellite markers RM171 and RM6745 flanked the Ms-p gene, and the distances were 0.3 cM and 3.0 cM, respectively. On the basis of the sequence of rice chromosome 10, the physical distance between the two markers is approximately 730 kb. These findings facilitates molecular marker-assisted selection (MAS) of genes Ms-p and Rfe in rice breeding programs, and cloning them in the future.
17644013	Mnh6, a nonhistone protein containing an HMG1 box, was isolated from the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. In the current study, we utilized an MNH6-deletion mutant to investigate the role of Mnh6 in the disease cycle of M. grisea. The Deltamnh6 mutant exhibited pleiotropic effects on fungal morphogenesis, including reduction in mycelial growth, conidiation, appressorium development, plant penetration, and infectious growth in host cells. Furthermore, Deltamnh6 mutant had greatly reduced pathogenicity on barley and rice compared to the wild-type. The reintroduction of an intact copy of MNH6 into the Deltamnh6 mutant restored morphological features and pathogenicity, suggesting that Mnh6 is required for fungal development, effective pathogenicity, and completion of the disease cycle of M. grisea.
17644170	A combined DSC - HPAEC-PAD approach, gel permeation chromatography and mild long-term acidic hydrolysis were employed to study the effects of amylopectin chain-length distributional and amylose defects on the assembly structures of amylopectin (crystalline lamellae, amylopectin clusters) in A-type polymorphic starches extracted from 11 Thai cultivars of rice with different amylose level. Joint analysis of the data allowed determining the contributions of different populations of amylopectin chains to the thermodynamic melting parameters of crystalline lamellae. It was shown that amylopectin chains with DP 6-12 and 25<DP<36 as well as amylose-lipid complexes or V-type crystalline structures and apparently amylose "tie-chains" could be considered as defects in the assembly structures of rice starches. Contrary to the defects listed above, amylopectin chains with DP 13-24 and >or=37 could be related to chains stabilizing these structures. The total effect of amylose and amylopectin defects can be described by means of Thomson-Gibbs' equation. The increase of defects in the assembly structures is accompanied by rise of the rates of acidic hydrolysis of both amorphous and crystalline parts in starches.
17644730	GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) encodes a soluble gibberellin (GA) receptor that shares sequence similarity with a hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL). Previously, a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assay revealed that the GID1-GA complex directly interacts with SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1), a DELLA repressor protein in GA signaling. Here, we demonstrated, by pull-down and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) experiments, that the GA-dependent GID1-SLR1 interaction also occurs in planta. GA(4) was found to have the highest affinity to GID1 in Y2H assays and is the most effective form of GA in planta. Domain analyses of SLR1 using Y2H, gel filtration, and BiFC methods revealed that the DELLA and TVHYNP domains of SLR1 are required for the GID1-SLR1 interaction. To identify the important regions of GID1 for GA and SLR1 interactions, we used many different mutant versions of GID1, such as the spontaneous mutant GID1s, N- and C-terminal truncated GID1s, and mutagenized GID1 proteins with conserved amino acids replaced with Ala. The amino acid residues important for SLR1 interaction completely overlapped the residues required for GA binding that were scattered throughout the GID1 molecule. When we plotted these residues on the GID1 structure predicted by analogy with HSL tertiary structure, many residues were located at regions corresponding to the substrate binding pocket and lid. Furthermore, the GA-GID1 interaction was stabilized by SLR1. Based on these observations, we proposed a molecular model for interaction between GA, GID1, and SLR1.
17645323	o-Quinone methide (o-QM), or 6-methylene-2,4-cyclohexadiene-1-one, has been identified as an important intermediate in lignin and alkyl benzene combustion, and the thermal decomposition of o-QM is therefore relevant to the combustion of transportation fuels (which contain toluene) and of biomass and low-rank coals (which contain lignin). We present a comprehensive reaction mechanism for the unimolecular conversion of o-QM to the reaction intermediates tropone and fulvene, calculated using theoretical quantum chemical techniques. Enthalpies of formation for all reactants, products, and intermediates are calculated using the CBS-QB3 theoretical method. Transition states are determined with the CBS-QB3 method, which we use to obtain rate constants as a function of temperature from transition-state theory, with Wigner tunneling corrections applied to hydrogen-shift reactions. Barrier heights are also calculated with the BB1K density functional theory (DFT) method for thermochemical kinetics. Reaction pathways are identified leading to tropone (which rapidly decomposes to benzene + CO) and to fulvene + CO, via initial hydrogen transfer to 2-hydroxyphenylcarbene and via ring opening to 1,3,5,6-heptatetraen-1-one, respectively. Quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (QRRK) theory analysis of the reaction kinetics indicates that the dominant reaction pathway is formation of tropone via 2-hydroxyphenylcarbene; the formation of fulvene + CO via initial ring opening constitutes a secondary pathway, which becomes more important with increasing temperature. Our calculations, using BB1K barrier heights, yield the rate equation k(T) [s(-1)] = 2.64 x 10(14) exp(-35.9/T [K]) for o-QM decomposition, which is in relatively good agreement with the experimental rate equation. Calculations provide an apparent activation energy of 71.3 kcal mol(-1), versus 67.2 kcal mol(-1) from experiment.
17645814	Vaccinations are the mainstay of western preventive medicine, and they have been used to protect some crops against disease and insect pests. We consider rice as a model for protection using induced resistance since it is one of the most important staple crops and there have been significant new developments in: cross-resistance among rice insects, chemical pathways involved in induced resistance, sequencing the rice genome and expression of genes conferring resistance against rice insect pests. Insect attack has been found to cause lesions that kill planthopper eggs and early stages of gall midges. Damaged plants released volatiles that made them less likely to be chosen by planthoppers and more attractive to parasitoids. Chemical elicitors have been developed for dicotyledonous plants and these can induce resistance in rice, although rice does not fit models developed to explain signalling in dicots. For example, salicylic acid did not increase in rice after infection by pathogens and did not appear to be the mobile signal for induced resistance against pathogens although it was involved in induced responses to phloem-feeding insects. Jasmonic acid acted as a signal in some induced responses to pathogens as well as chewing insects. Many of the genes associated with induced resistance in rice have recently been mapped, and techniques are being developed to incorporate them into the genome of cultivated varieties. Attempts to control insect pests of rice will affect interactions with pathogens, predators and parasites, and other organisms in this agroecosystem.
17646151	T-DNA tagging method is a high throughput system for identifying and cloning novel genes from T-DNA-inserted mutant population created via genetic transformation by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. However, the efficiency of using T-DNA-inserted mutant population to clone genes in rice was much lower than in Arabidopsis. In this study, a rice tagged line with two copies of T-DNA segments inserted independently to each other was screened out via a series of verification tests, including the co-segregated analysis between the mutated character and the sequence of T-DNA or the genomic sequence flanking inserted T-DNA. From this tagged line, two inserted incidents were separated from the progeny population of a plant heterozygous in two tagged sites, and some plants with the target trait and one of the inserted incidents were obtained, which were important basic materials for the subsequently co-segregated analysis between the mutated character and the sequence of inserted T-DNA, and for cloning the mutant gene in future. Based on this study, we have some thoughts about the gene cloning from the T-DNA tagged lines with more than one inserted sequence independently and put forward to discuss with colleagues.
17646152	Centromeres play an important role in ensuring the correct segregation and transmission of chromosome during mitosis and meiosis in eukaryotes. In this research, we constructed five BAC libraries for diploid wild rice with different genomes. Together with the technique of colony blot hybridization and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), centromere-related BAC clones were screened and characterized from different genomes. Meanwhile, co-hybridization was detected between these clones and the five genomes. The results from this study demonstrated that: (1) there were centromere-specific satellite repeat in Oryza officinalis (CC genome) and O. brachyantha (FF genome), respectively, and centromere-specific CRR-related sequence was found in O. brachyantha; (2) homology sequences of CentO and CRR of O. sativa (AA genome) were detected on all centromeres of O. glaberrima (AA genome), O. punctata (BB genome) and O. australiensis (EE genome); And (3) the two somatic chromosomes of O. officinalis comprised of homology sequences of CentO satellites as revealed FISH analysis probed with RCS2. Homology sequences of CRR of O. sativa were also detected on all centromeres of O. officinalis. The results provided a foundation toward cloning the centromeric sequences from different genomes of genus Oryza, studying centromere organization and evolution of different genome, analyzing the relationship between centromeric structure and function among different genome.
17646238	Biomass smoke has been associated with many diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between biomass smoke and chronic bronchitis in women in the rural setting of Peshawar, Pakistan. Three villages in rural Peshawar were randomly selected as "test villages" where biomass fuel was used. The women responsible for cooking in these villages were interviewed for the prevalence of bronchitis, and data were compared to those obtained from three matching "control villages" where liquid petroleum gas was used as fuel. Crude odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using a statistical software package (EPI Info, version 6.0 [public domain software]; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Atlanta, GA). This study was carried out in 1,426 female test patients and 1,131 female control subjects. Chronic bronchitis was found in 100 women (7.01%) in the test group and 33 women (2.92%) in the control group. The OR was 2.51 (95% CI, 1.65 to 3.83). A strong association was found between bronchitis and the use of wood (OR, 2.38; 95% CI, 2.12 to 3.01), dung cake (OR, 2.01; 95% CI, 1.72 to 2.42), rice straws (OR, 3.32; 95% CI, 1.11 to 9.88), and kai grass (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.75 to 2.45). Cooking in the living room and bronchitis were highly associated (OR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.94 to 3.66). An association between the presence of a kitchen and bronchitis was established with an OR of 2.65 (95% CI, 2.10 to 3.42). In the test group, 75% of kitchens were ventilated; in the control group, 82% were ventilated. The difference between the two groups was nonsignificant (p>0.6; chi2=0.39; OR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.5 to 1.4). Biomass fuel exposure is strongly associated with chronic bronchitis in women who are involved in cooking in rural Peshawar.
17646709	Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs) represent short tandem duplications found within all eukaryotic organisms. To examine the distribution of SSRs in the genome of Brassica rapa ssp. pekinensis, SSRs from different genomic regions representing 17.7 Mb of genomic sequence were surveyed. SSRs appear more abundant in non-coding regions (86.6%) than in coding regions (13.4%). Comparison of SSR densities in different genomic regions demonstrated that SSR density was greatest within the 5'-flanking regions of the predicted genes. The proportion of different repeat motifs varied between genomic regions, with trinucleotide SSRs more prevalent in predicted coding regions, reflecting the codon structure in these regions. SSRs were also preferentially associated with gene-rich regions, with peri-centromeric heterochromatin SSRs mostly associated with retrotransposons. These results indicate that the distribution of SSRs in the genome is non-random. Comparison of SSR abundance between B. rapa and the closely related species Arabidopsis thaliana suggests a greater abundance of SSRs in B. rapa, which may be due to the proposed genome triplication. Our results provide a comprehensive view of SSR genomic distribution and evolution in Brassica for comparison with the sequenced genomes of A. thaliana and Oryza sativa.
17647202	A laboratory incubation experiment was conducted in tropical rain-fed (red soil) and irrigated (black soil) rice agroecosystem during the crop growing season to determine the effect of the type of soil, cultivation practices and the age of plant on MOB (methane oxidizing bacteria) population size and their activities. The average value of MOB population size was 11.7 +/- 4.5 x 10(5) cells g(-1) soil, with a range of 3.1 +/- 0.4 to 21.2 +/- 1.0 x 10(5) cells g(-1) soil for red soil, which was lower in comparison to black soil where population size varied between 84.2 +/- 3.8 and 289.4 +/- 7.0 x 10(5) cells g(-1) soil with an average of 182.8 +/- 53.5 x 10(5) cells g(-1) soil. The highest population size was recorded during the grain maturation stage which gradually declined during the grain filling, flowering and tillering stages of the rice plants. The HSD test indicated a significant variation in the MOB population size with the varying ages of the plant. CH4 oxidizing capacity was higher in black soil as compared to red soil. The highest CH4 oxidizing capacity was found at the grain-filling stage in both the soil types. The differences in soil types and cultivation practices, pattern of variation in MOB population size and methane oxidation were found similar in both the sites under the influence of plant age, even though the detected values differed significantly.
17650026	Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) provides a framework for identifying, quantifying, and valuing in monetary terms all the important costs and consequences to society of competing disease interventions. Thus, CBA requires that impacts of schistosomiasis interventions on beneficiaries'health be valued in monetary terms Economic theory requires the use of the willingness to pay (WTP) approach in valuation of changes in health as a result of intervention. It is the only approach which is consistent with the potential Pareto improvement principle, and hence, consistent with CBA. The present study developed a health outcome measure and tested its operational feasibility. Contingent valuation for certain return to normal health from various health states, and for remaining in one's current health state were elicited through direct interview of randomly selected rice farmers, teachers, and health personnel in Kenya. The WTP to avoid risk of advancing to the next more severe state, seemed to be higher than WTP for a return to normal health. Generally, there was a significant difference between the average WTP values of farmers, teachers and health personnel populations. The gender and occupation variable coefficients were positive and highly significant in all regressions. The coefficients of the other explanatory variables were generally not statistically significant, indicating that medical expenses, anxiety cost, loss of earnings, and loss of work time, implied in various health states descriptions did not have significant effect on respondents expressed WTP values. The latter finding shows that there is need for more research to identify the other (besides gender and occupation) determinants of expressed WTP values in Africa. This study has demonstrated that it is possible to elicit coherent WTP values from economically under-developed countries. Further empirical work is clearly needed to at least address the validity and reliability of the contingent valuation approach and its measurements in Africa.
17650484	Somatic embryogenesis receptor-like kinase (SERK) genes were identified in different plant species, such as Daucus carota, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. Studies of these genes showed that they have conserved structures and expression patterns. These genes are not only expressed in embryogenic tissues, but also in post-embryogenic development. They function in embryogenesis and reproductive development and defences in particular, related signal transduction pathways.
17650489	Linear correlation between panicle angle and 10 quality traits were studied by using P1, P2 and 349 lines of the RIL population in a cross of Bing 8979(erect panicle)/C bao (curve panicle) in japonica rice. We found that, there were no linear correlation between panicle angle and brown rice rate , head rice rate, chalky grain rate, chalkiness area, gelatinization temperature, gel consistency and apparent amylose content. The correlation coefficients between panicle angle and milled rice rate, between panicle angle and grain length, and between panicle angle and grain length/width ratio were 0.124*, 0.470** and 0.241** , respectively. By using major gene-polygene mixed inheritance models, genetic analyses showed that brown rice rate, milled rice rate and apparent amylose content were controlled by two major genes plus polygenes. The two major genes expressed additive effect and additive x additive effects. Head rice rate, grain length, grain length/width ratio and gel consistency were controlled by two major genes with additive-epistatic effects plus polygenes. Chalky grain rate, chalkiness area and gelatinization temperature were controlled by three major genes with additive-epistatic effects plus polygenes. Brown rice rate, milled rice rate, head rice rate, chalky grain rate, chalkiness area and gelatinization temperature traits were mainly governed by major genes. Grain length, grain length/width ratio, gel consistency and apparent amylose content traits were mainly governed by polygenes.
17650514	CRABS CLAW (CRC) encodes a transcription factor of the YABBY family that plays important roles in carpel and nectary development in Arabidopsis thaliana. Combined evolutionary and developmental studies suggest an ancestor of the CRC gene to have controlled carpel development in the last common ancestor of the angiosperms. Roles for CRC orthologues in leaf development and carpel specification in rice, and in nectary development in core eudicots, have accordingly been interpreted as derived. The aim of this study was to assess the capacity of CRC orthologues from a basal angiosperm and from rice to complement CRC mutants of arabidopsis. These experiments were designed to test the hypothesized ancestral role of CRC in the angiosperms, and to indicate whether putatively novel roles of various CRC orthologues resulted from changes to their encoded proteins, or from other molecular evolutionary events. The crc-1 mutant of arabidopsis was genetically transformed with the coding sequences of various CRC orthologues, and with paralogous YABBY coding sequences, under the control of the arabidopsis CRC promoter. The phenotypes of transformed plants were assessed to determine the degree of complementation of the crc-1 mutant phenotype in carpel fusion, carpel form and nectary development. The CRC orthologue from the basal angiosperm Amborella trichopoda partially complemented the crc-1 mutant phenotype in carpels, but not in nectaries. The CRC orthologue from rice partially complemented all aspects of the crc-1 mutant phenotype. Though most non-CRC YABBY coding sequences did not complement crc-1 mutant phenotypes, YABBY2 (YAB2) proved to be an exception. The data support a hypothesized ancestral role for CRC in carpel development and suggest that novel roles for CRC orthologues in monocots and in core eudicots resulted principally from molecular changes other than those affecting their coding sequences.
17650852	A 13 year experiment was conducted to study the effects of conservational tillage on the aggregate composition and organic carbon storage in purple paddy soil of Sichuan Basin. The results showed that under no-tillage and ridge culture (rice-rape) (NR-RR), no-tillage and plain culture (rice-rape) (NP-RR), no-tillage and ridge culture (rice-green manure) (NR-RGM), tillage and ridge culture (rice-rape) (TR-RR), and tillage and plain culture (rice-rape) (TP-RR), the proportion of macroaggregates in 0-10 cm soil layer was 23%, 69%, 9%, 36%, and 28% higher than that under conventional tillage (CT) (12%), respectively, while in 10-20 cm soil layer, this proportion under conservational tillage was 9%-38% lower than that under CT. The organic carbon storages in the macroaggregates at the depth of 0-10 cm were 13%, 31% and 32% higher under no-tillage and ridge culture (rice-fallow) (NR-RF), NR-RR and NR-RGM than under CT, respectively, while that at the depth of 10-20 cm was 28%-54% lower. The differences in organic carbon storage between macro- and microaggregates were smaller in 10-20 cm layer than in 0-10 cm layer. Under conservational tillage, the organic carbon storage was 8%-28% higher in 0-10 cm layer but 4%-22% lower in 10-20 cm layer, compared with that under CT. After converted from CT to conservational tillage for 13 years, the mean organic carbon sequestration rate was 53 g x m(-2) x a(-1) and 25 g x m(-2) x a(-1) at the depths of 0-10 cm and 10-20 cm, while under CT, it was 26 g x m(-2) x a(-1) and 33 g x m(-2) x a(-1), respectively. Conservational tillage was favorable to the formation of macroaggregates in surface soil layer and the enhancement of soil total organic carbon storage.
17650862	A random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was made on the Pardosa pseudoannulata populations collected from eight habitats in Central-south China, Southwest China, and Hainan Island. 10 from 50 primers were selected, and 84 bands of 200-2500 bp fragments were amplified, among which, 62 bands (73.8%) were polymorphic, suggesting an obvious polymorphism of the populations. As estimated by Shannon index, genetic similarity index and genetic distance, the total genetic diversity index of the spider was 0.5177, with the genetic variation being 64.24% within the P. pseudoannulata populations and 35.76% among the populations. The genetic distance among the eight populations ranged from 0.0753 to 0.3725, with an average of 0.2426, indicating that the eight populations engendered adaptive variations with different habitats. Multiple regression analysis showed that annual mean air temperature and pesticide application were the main factors restricting P. pseudoannulata to be a dominant insect species in rice field.
17650871	Establishing a species-diversified cropping system to control crop diseases, insect pests and weeds is an important approach to sustainable agricultural development. This paper reviewed the researches on paddy field species-diversified cropping systems at home and abroad, and discussed the controlling effects and mechanisms of multiple species coexistence on rice diseases, pests and weeds control. The multiple species coexistence models such as rice-fish, rice-duck, rice-azolla-fish and rice-azolla-duck had effective controlling effects on Thanatephorus cucumeris (Frank) Donk, Nilaparata lugens Stal, Chaphalocrocis medinalis Gueneeand, and weeds. Other models like intercropping rice with Zizania caduciflora L. and with other wetland crops also had effective effects in controlling the occurrence and spread of Pyricularia grisea. It was suggested that further studies should be strengthened from the viewpoints of crop culture, molecular biology, and chemical ecolo-
17651366	Sigma factors encoded by the nucleus of plants confer promoter specificity on the bacterial-type RNA polymerase in chloroplasts. We previously showed that transcripts of OsSIG1, which encodes one such sigma factor in rice, accumulate relatively late during leaf development. We have now isolated and characterized two allelic mutants of OsSIG1, in which OsSIG1 is disrupted by insertion of the retrotransposon Tos17, in order to characterize the functions of OsSIG1. The OsSIG1-/- plants were found to be fertile but they manifested an approximately one-third reduction in the chlorophyll content of mature leaves. Quantitative RT-PCR and northern blot analyses of chloroplast gene expression revealed that the abundance of transcripts derived from the psaA operon was markedly reduced in OsSIG1-/- plants compared with that in wild-type homozygotes. This effect was accompanied by a reduction in the abundance of the core protein complex (PsaA-PsaB) of photosystem I. Analysis of chlorophyll fluorescence also revealed a substantial reduction in the rate of electron transfer from photosystem II to photosystem I in the OsSIG1 mutants. Our results thus indicate that OsSIG1 plays an important role in the maintenance of photosynthetic activity in mature chloroplasts of rice by regulating expression of chloroplast genes for components of photosystem I.
1765148	Chloramphenicol inhibited significantly but incompletely photosynthesis in leaf segments of rice. Fluorescence and polarographic experiments indicated that chloramphenicol competes with the CO2 reducing cycle for electrons from photosystem I because it serves as an electron acceptor of photosystem I and its reduction intermediate transfers its electron to molecular oxygen.
17652785	Epitopes often require co-delivery with adjuvant and targeting proteins to enable recognition by the immune system, and this approach may also increase the efficacy of the antigen. In this study, we assess and describe the ability of transgenic rice plants to express a fusion protein consisting of the B-subunit of the Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LTB) and a synthetic core-neutralizing epitope (COE) of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), inducing an enteric disease that is seen most predominantly in piglets. Both components of the fusion proteins were detected with Western blot analysis. The fusion protein was determined to assemble into pentamers, as was evidenced by its ability to bind to GM1 gangliosides, and evidenced an average level of expression in a transgenic rice endosperm. This indicates that the expression system of the plant is capable of generating a sizable amount of antigen, possibly allowing for the successful development of an edible vaccine.
17654284	The EtOAc extract from rice (Oriza sativa cv. Hinohikari) husk showed a suppressive effect on umu gene expression of the SOS response in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535/pSK1002 against the mutagen, Trp-P-1, which requires liver metabolizing enzyme. To obtain the suppressive compound, the EtOAc extract was fractionated by SiO(2) column chromatography using umu test as a bioassay guide. Suppressive compound was isolated and identified as momilactone A (1) by EIMS, IR, (1)H- and (13)C-NMR spectroscopy. Compound 1 inhibited of the SOS-inducing activity of Trp-P-1 in the umu test. Gene expression was suppressed by 32.6% at less than 0.60 mM. Compound 1 was assayed with activated Trp-P-1. The suppressive effect of Compound 1 was decreased compared with that of Trp-P-1. Furthermore, 1 was assayed with another mutagens, such as MeIQ, activated MeIQ, furylfuramide (AF-2), MNNG, and UV-irradiation. Compound 1 showed greater suppressive effect on AF-2-inducing SOS response than other mutagens.
17654459	This 2006 'Plant Proteomics Update' is a continuation of the two previously published in 'Proteomics' by 2004 (Canovas et al., Proteomics 2004, 4, 285-298) and 2006 (Rossignol et al., Proteomics 2006, 6, 5529-5548) and it aims to bring up-to-date the contribution of proteomics to plant biology on the basis of the original research papers published throughout 2006, with references to those appearing last year. According to the published papers and topics addressed, we can conclude that, as observed for the three previous years, there has been a quantitative, but not qualitative leap in plant proteomics. The full potential of proteomics is far from being exploited in plant biology research, especially if compared to other organisms, mainly yeast and humans, and a number of challenges, mainly technological, remain to be tackled. The original papers published last year numbered nearly 100 and deal with the proteome of at least 26 plant species, with a high percentage for Arabidopsis thaliana (28) and rice (11). Scientific objectives ranged from proteomic analysis of organs/tissues/cell suspensions (57) or subcellular fractions (29), to the study of plant development (12), the effect of hormones and signalling molecules (8) and response to symbionts (4) and stresses (27). A small number of contributions have covered PTMs (8) and protein interactions (4). 2-DE (specifically IEF-SDS-PAGE) coupled to MS still constitutes the almost unique platform utilized in plant proteome analysis. The application of gel-free protein separation methods and 'second generation' proteomic techniques such as multidimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT), and those for quantitative proteomics including DIGE, isotope-coded affinity tags (ICAT), iTRAQ and stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) still remains anecdotal. This review is divided into seven sections: Introduction, Methodology, Subcellular proteomes, Development, Responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, PTMs and Protein interactions. Section 8 summarizes the major pitfalls and challenges of plant proteomics.
17655104	The feasibility of using near infrared transmission spectroscopy for classification of Chinese rice wine with different marked age was presented in the present research. The prediction performance of different preprocessing methods of the spectra (raw spectra, smoothed spectra and derivative spectra) together with discriminant analysis (DA) was also investigated. A total of 86 Shaoxing rice wines were tested in the wavelength of range 800-2 500 nm using Fourier transform near infrared spectroscopy. The results of the research indicated that the performance of second derivative spectra was the worst, and the results from raw spectra were the best, with the percentage of samples correctly classified 98.1% and 90.6% for the calibration and validation set, respectively, and the smoothed spectra had no influence on the classification results. The results indicated that near infrared transmission spectroscopy in conjunction with DA was a powerful tool for discriminating Chinese rice wines with different marked ages.
17655246	Magnaporthe grisea is a fungal pathogen of rice that forms appressoria that penetrate the outer cuticle of the rice plant. Data from recent studies indicate that M. grisea isocitrate lyase (ICL), a key enzyme in the glyoxylate cycle, is highly expressed during appressorium-mediated plant infection. Bromophenols isolated from the red alga Odonthalia corymbifera exhibited potent ICL inhibitory activity and blocked appressoria formation by M. grisea in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, these compounds protected the rice plants from infection by M. grisea. Rice plants infected with wild-type M. grisea Guy 11 exhibited significantly lower disease severity with bromophenol treatment than without, and the treatment effect was comparable to the behavior of the Deltaicl knockout mutant I-10. The protective effect of bromophenols and their strong inhibition of appressorium formation on rice plants suggest that ICL inhibitors may be promising candidates for crop protection, particularly to protect rice plants against M. grisea.
17655247	Monascus-fermented red mold dioscorea (RMD) was proven to produce higher monacolin K levels than red mold rice (RMR) in our previous study. The goal of this study is to investigate whether the novel RMD had more hypolipidemic and antiatherosclerotic effect than traditional red mold rice. The daily dose of RMR for adults was recommended as 1 g, which corresponded to 96 mg/kg/day for hamsters. Therefore, high cholesterol diet-induced hyperlipidemic hamsters were daily administrated with a 0.5-fold (48 mg/kg/day), a 1-fold (96 mg/kg/day), or a 5-fold dose (480 mg/kg/day) of RMD for 8 weeks. Furthermore, a 1-fold dose of RMR (96 mg/kg/day) and unfermented dioscorea (96 mg/kg/day) were also respectively used to evaluate the effect of hypolipidemic and antiarteriosclerosis. The results indicated that only needing a 0.5-fold dose of RMD was able to significantly lower total cholesterol (by 13.78%, p<0.001), triglyceride (by 38.74%, p<0.01), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (by 43.11%, p<0.05) as well as maintain a high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level, as compared to the hyperlipidemic group. RMD including a higher monacolin K level and a dioscorea substrate was able to exhibit a more significant difference in the hypolipidemic effect than RMR or unfermented dioscorea. Both RMR and dioscorea exhibited potent in vitro antioxidative ability and in vivo protection against hypolipidemia-induced oxidative stress. Therefore, the antioxidative ability of RMD provided by Monascus metabolites (dimerumic acid, tannin, phenol, etc.) as well as dioscorea was able to perform more antiatherosclerotic effects on increasing total antioxidant status, catalase, and superoxide dismutase activity and repressing lipid peroxidation and atherosclerotic plaque than RMR and dioscorea.
17655651	Plant architecture is mostly determined by shoot branching patterns. Apical dominance is a well-known control mechanism in the development of branching patterns, but little is known regarding its role in monocots such as rice. Here, we show that the concept of apical dominance can be applied to tiller bud outgrowth of rice. In dwarf10 (d10), an enhanced branching mutant of rice, apical dominance can be observed, but the inhibitory effects of the apical meristem was reduced. D10 is a rice ortholog of MAX4/RMS1/DAD1 that encodes a carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase 8 and is supposed to be involved in the synthesis of an unidentified inhibitor of shoot branching. D10 expression predominantly occurs in vascular cells in most organs. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that accumulation of D10 mRNA is induced by exogenous auxin. Moreover, D10 expression is upregulated in six branching mutants, d3, d10, d14, d17, d27 and high tillering dwarf (htd1). No such effects were found for D3 or HTD1, the MAX2 and MAX3 orthologs, respectively, of rice. These findings imply that D10 transcription might be a critical step in the regulation of the branching inhibitor pathway. In addition, we present observations that suggest that FINE CULM1 (FC1), a rice ortholog of teosinte branched 1 (tb1), possibly works independently of the branching inhibitor pathway.
17657411	High-affinity K(+) transporters play an important role in K(+) absorption of plants. We isolated a HAK gene from Aeluropus littoralis, a graminaceous halophyte. The amino acid sequence of AlHAK showed high homology with HAK transporters obtained from Oryza sativa (82%) and Hordeum vulgare (82%). When expressed in Saccharomyces cereviae WDelta3, AlHAK performed high-affinity K(+) uptake with a K(m) value of 8 muM, and the growth of transformants was dramatically inhibited by 150 mM Rb(+) and 150 mM Cs(+) but less affected by 300 mM Na(+). AlHAK may thus improve the capacity of plants to maintain a high cytosolic K(+)/Na(+) ratio at high salinity.
17658074	Fish and fisheries are important for the livelihoods, food, and income of the rural population in Bangladesh. Increased rice production and changing agricultural patterns have resulted in a large decline in inland fisheries. Implementation of carp pond polyculture has been very successful, whereas little focus has been given to the commonly consumed small indigenous fish species, some of which are rich in vitamin A and minerals, such as calcium, iron, and zinc, and are an integral part of the rural diet. The overall objective of the research and capacity-building activities described in this paper is to increase the production, accessibility, and intake of nutrient-dense small indigenous fish species, in particular mola (Amblypharyngodon mola), in order to combat micronutrient deficiencies. The large contribution from small indigenous fish species to recommended intakes of vitamin A and calcium and the perception that mola is good for or protects the eyes have been well documented. An integrated approach was conducted jointly by Bangladeshi and Danish institutions, linking human nutrition and fisheries. Activities included food-consumption surveys, laboratory analyses of commonly consumed fish species, production trials of carp-mola pond polyculture, teaching, training, and dissemination of the results. No decline in carp production and thus in income was found with the inclusion of mola, and increased intake of mola has the potential to combat micronutrient deficiencies. Teaching and training of graduates and field staff have led to increased awareness of the role of small indigenous fish species for good nutrition and resulted in the promotion of carp-mola pond polyculture and research in small indigenous fish species. The decline in accessibility, increase in price, and decrease in intake of small indigenous fish species by the rural poor, as well as the increased intake of silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix), the most commonly cultured fish species, which is poor in micronutrients and not preferred for consumption, are being addressed, and some measures taken by inland fisheries management have been discussed. The successful linking of human nutrition and fisheries to address micronutrient deficiencies has relevance for other countries with rich fisheries resources, such as Cambodia and countries in the Lake Victoria region of Africa.
17658075	The last nomadic peoples of the world are facing strong governmental incentives to renounce their foraging lifestyle. Nevertheless, the shift to a sedentary way of life and the adoption of agriculture do not always result in the promised improvement in diet and health conditions. We compared the dietary regime and nutritional status of three groups of former hunter-gatherers, the Punan of Borneo. All three groups adopted extensive upland rice cultivation almost 6 decades ago, but each has some degree of dependence on agriculture versus forest resources, which varies along a gradient of accessibility of urban facilities. The diet of three distinct Punan groups living in the dipterocarp forest of East Kalimantan was assessed both qualitatively and quantitatively and analyzed in relation to the seasonality of resources and human activities. The physical fitness of the Punan was also estimated from repeated anthropometric measurements. The more remote the Punan community was from urban facilities, the more diversified was the diet and the better were its nutritional status and physical fitness. The contribution of forest resources to the dietary regime also decreased with urban proximity. However, the higher dependency on agriculture is not the proximate cause of the deterioration in diet and physical fitness, which is rather due to the transition from the nomadic to the settled way of life. The brutal shift in lifestyle among the Punan of Borneo has profoundly affected the integrity of these societies and impacted their social, cultural, symbolic, and political features. In the long run, this may compromise their health status and ecological success.
17658954	Maize (Zea mays L.) is one of the most important cereal crops and a model for the study of genetics, evolution, and domestication. To better understand maize genome organization and to build a framework for genome sequencing, we constructed a sequence-ready fingerprinted contig-based physical map that covers 93.5% of the genome, of which 86.1% is aligned to the genetic map. The fingerprinted contig map contains 25,908 genic markers that enabled us to align nearly 73% of the anchored maize genome to the rice genome. The distribution pattern of expressed sequence tags correlates to that of recombination. In collinear regions, 1 kb in rice corresponds to an average of 3.2 kb in maize, yet maize has a 6-fold genome size expansion. This can be explained by the fact that most rice regions correspond to two regions in maize as a result of its recent polyploid origin. Inversions account for the majority of chromosome structural variations during subsequent maize diploidization. We also find clear evidence of ancient genome duplication predating the divergence of the progenitors of maize and rice. Reconstructing the paleoethnobotany of the maize genome indicates that the progenitors of modern maize contained ten chromosomes.
17659450	In order to evaluate genotypic variation, we measured leaf photosynthetic rate (Pn) and its associated factors for the rice diversity research set of germplasm (RDRS) selected from the Genebank in National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS). Pn showed large genotypic variation from 11.9 to 32.1 micromol m(-2)s(-1). The variation in stomatal conductance to CO2 (Gs) explained about 50% of that in Pn, while that in nitrogen concentration (N) in leaves explained about 35%. The genotype group which mainly consists of aus type indica tended to have higher Gs, and the genotype group which corresponds to japonica had a higher nitrogen concentration (N) in leaves. The relationships of Pn with Gs and N were not significantly different among genotype groups, suggesting photosynthetic efficiencies are similar among genotype groups.
17659535	In a search for plant extracts with potent in vivo antifungal activity against various plant diseases, we found that treatment with a methanol extract of Myristica fragrans Houttyn (nutmeg) seeds reduced the development of various plant diseases. The objectives of the present study were to isolate and determine antifungal substances from My. fragrans and to evaluate their antifungal activities. Three antifungal lignans were isolated from the methanol extract of My. fragrans seeds and identified as erythro-austrobailignan-6 (EA6), meso-dihydroguaiaretic acid (MDA) and nectandrin-B (NB). In vitro antimicrobial activity of the three lignans varied according to compound and target species. Alternaria alternata, Colletotrichum coccodes, C. gloeosporioides, Magnaporthe grisea, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Acidovorax konjaci and Burkholderia glumae were relatively sensitive to the three lignans. In vivo, all three compounds effectively suppressed the development of rice blast and wheat leaf rust. In addition, EA6 and NB were highly active against the development of barley powdery mildew and tomato late blight, respectively. Both MDA and NB also moderately inhibited the development of rice sheath blight. This is the first study to demonstrate the in vitro and in vivo antifungal activities of the three lignans from My. fragrans against plant pathogenic fungi.
17660534	Rice centromere 8 was previously proposed to be an "immature" centromere that recently arose from a genic region. Our comparative genomics analysis indicates that Cen8 was formed at its current location at least 7-9 million years ago and was physically shifted by a more recent inversion of a segment spanning centromeric and pericentromeric regions.
17660575	We describe a candidate gene approach for associating SNPs with variation in flowering time and water-soluble carbohydrate (WSC) content and other quality traits in the temperate forage grass species Lolium perenne. Three analysis methods were used, which took the significant population structure into account. First, a linear mixed model was used enabling a structured association analysis to be incorporated with the nine populations identified in the structure analysis as random variables. Second, a within-population analysis of variance was performed. Third, a tree-scanning method was used, in which haplotype trees were associated with phenotypes on the basis of inferred haplotypes. Analysis of variance within populations identified several associations between WSC, nitrogen (N), and dry matter digestibility with allelic variants within an alkaline invertase candidate gene LpcAI. These associations were only detected in material harvested in one of the two years. By contrast, consistent associations between the L. perenne homolog (LpHD1) of the rice photoperiod control gene HD1 and flowering time were identified. One SNP, in the immediate upstream region of the LpHD1 coding sequence (C-4443-A), was significant in the linear mixed model. Within-population analysis of variance and tree-scanning analysis confirmed and extended this result to the 2118 polymorphisms in some of the populations. The merits of the tree-scanning method are compared to the single SNP analysis. The potential usefulness of the 4443 SNP in marker-assisted selection is currently being evaluated in test crosses of genotypes from this work with turf-grass varieties.
17660691	Some point mutations in acetolactate synthase (ALS) confer resistance to ALS-inhibiting herbicides in weeds. To clarify the evolution of the herbicide resistance of Monochoria vaginalis, a weed in rice fields in Japan, the nucleotide sequences of four genes encoding ALS were surveyed in five sulfonylurea-resistant (SU-R) and five sulfonylurea-susceptible (SU-S) biotypes. In the ALS1 gene, two SU-R biotypes showed nucleotide substitutions changing Pro197 to Ser and Leu, respectively. In a different gene, ALS3, three other SU-R biotypes showed either of the two nonsynonymous nucleotide substitutions seen in ALS1. Only two biotypes geographically located distantly from each other shared the same mutation conferring SU resistance in the same gene. These patterns of nucleotide substitutions indicate that the SU-R phenotype was acquired independently by different biotypes. Nucleotide diversity values of the genes showing SU-R mutations were higher than those of ALS2 lacking any SU-R mutation and of a putative pseudogene, ALS4. This result suggests that the maintenance of nucleotide variability within target genes provides an opportunity for the evolution of SU-R phenotypes by herbicide-driven selection for mutations conferring resistance.
17660692	Oryza rufipogon, the progenitor of the cultivated rice species Oryza sativa, is known by its wide intraspecific variation. In this study, we performed phylogenetic analyses of O. rufipogon strains and their relationships to O. sativa strains by using 26 newly identified p-SINE1 members from O. rufipogon strains, in addition to 23 members previously identified from O. sativa strains. A total of 103 strains of O. rufipogon and O. sativa were examined for the presence and absence of each of the p-SINE1 members at respective loci by PCR with a pair of primers that hybridize to the regions flanking each p-SINE1 member. A phylogenetic tree constructed on the basis of the insertion polymorphism of p-SINE1 members showed that O. rufipogon and O. sativa strains are classified into three groups. The first group consisted of O. rufipogon perennial strains mostly from China and O. sativa ssp. japonica strains, which included javanica strains forming a distinct subgroup. The second group consisted of almost all the O. rufipogon annual strains, a few O. rufipogon perennial strains and O. sativa ssp. indica strains. These groupings, in addition to other results, support the previous notion that annual O. rufipogon originated in the O. rufipogon perennial population, and that O. sativa originated polyphyletically in the O. rufipogon populations. The third group consisted of the other perennial strains and intermediate-type strains of O. rufipogon, in which the intermediate-type strains are most closely related to a hypothetical ancestor with no p-SINE1 members at the respective loci and to those belonging to the other rice species with the AA genome. This suggests that O. rufipogon perennial strains are likely to have originated from the O. rufipogon intermediate-ecotype population.
17662601	Rice straw was used as an alternative raw material to obtain cellulosics pulps. Pulping was done by using classics reagents as soda (with anthraquinone and parabenzoquinone as aditives), potassium hydroxide and Kraft process. The holocellulose, alpha-cellulose and lignin contents of rice straw (viz. 60.7, 41.2 and 21.9 wt%, respectively) are similar to those of some woody raw materials such as pine and eucalyptus, and various non-wood materials including olive tree prunings, wheat straw and sunflower stalks. Pulping tests were conducted by using soda, soda and anthraquinone at 1 wt%, soda and parabenzoquinone at 1 wt%, potassium hydroxide and sodium sulphate (Kraft process) under two different sets of operating conditions, namely: (a) a 10 wt% reagent concentration, 170 degrees C and 60 min; and (b) 15 wt% reagent, 180 degrees C and 90 min. The solid/liquid ratio was 6 in both cases. Paper sheets made from pulp extracted by cooking with soda (15 wt%) and AQ (1 wt%) at 180 degrees C and 90 min pulp exhibit the best drainage index, breaking length, stretch and burst index (viz. 23 degrees SR, 3494 m, 3.34% and 2.51 kN/g, respectively).
17663476	Amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide related to the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) damaged neurons and further resulted in dementia. Monascus-fermented red mold rice (RMR), a traditional Chinese medicine as well as health food, includes monacolins (with the same function as statins) and multifunctional metabolites. In this study, ethanol extract of RMR (RE) was used to evaluate neuroprotection against Abeta40 neurotoxicity in PC12 cells. Furthermore, the effects of dietary administration of RMR on memory and learning abilities are confirmed in an animal model of AD rats infused with Abeta40 into the cerebral ventricle. During continuous Abeta40 infusion for 28 days, the rats of test groups were administered RMR or lovastatin. Memory and learning abilities were evaluated in the water maze and passive avoidance tasks. After sacrifice, cerebral cortex and hippocampus were collected for the examination of AD risk factors. The in vitro results clearly indicate that RE provides stronger neuroprotection in rescuing cell viability as well as repressing inflammatory response and oxidative stress. RMR administration potently reverses the memory deficit in the memory task. Abeta40 infusion increases acetylcholinesterase activity, reactive oxygen species, and lipid peroxidation and decreases total antioxidant status and superoxide dismutase activity in brain, but these damages were potently reversed by RMR administration, and the protection was more significant than that with lovastatin administration. The protection provided by RMR is able to prevent Abeta fibrils from being formed and deposited in hippocampus and further decrease Abeta40 accumulation, even though Abeta40 solution was infused into brain continuously.
17663791	Upstream open reading frames (uORFs) can mediate translational control over the largest, or major ORF (mORF) in response to starvation, polyamine concentrations, and sucrose concentrations. One plant uORF with conserved peptide sequences has been shown to exert this control in an amino acid sequence-dependent manner but generally it is not clear what kinds of genes are regulated, or how extensively this mechanism is invoked in a given genome. By comparing full-length cDNA sequences from Arabidopsis and rice we identified 26 distinct homology groups of conserved peptide uORFs, only three of which have been reported previously. Pairwise Ka/Ks analysis showed that purifying selection had acted on nearly all conserved peptide uORFs and their associated mORFs. Functions of predicted mORF proteins could be inferred for 16 homology groups and many of these proteins appear to have a regulatory function, including 6 transcription factors, 5 signal transduction factors, 3 developmental signal molecules, a homolog of translation initiation factor eIF5, and a RING finger protein. Transcription factors are clearly overrepresented in this data set when compared to the frequency calculated for the entire genome (p = 1.2 x 10(-7)). Duplicate gene pairs arising from a whole genome duplication (ohnologs) with a conserved uORF are much more likely to have been retained in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) than are ohnologs of other genes (39% vs 14% of ancestral genes, p = 5 x 10(-3)). Two uORF groups were found in animals, indicating an ancient origin of these putative regulatory elements. Conservation of uORF amino acid sequence, association with homologous mORFs over long evolutionary time periods, preferential retention after whole genome duplications, and preferential association with mORFs coding for transcription factors suggest that the conserved peptide uORFs identified in this study are strong candidates for translational controllers of regulatory genes.
17664902	In most developed countries, gluten is currently most commonly introduced between 4 and 6 months of age, in spite of little evidence to support this practice. As for infants at risk of developing food allergies, there is clear evidence that introducing solid foods before the end of the 3rd month is detrimental and should be avoided. A recent growing body of evidence however challenges the notion that solids (and among them, gluten-containing foods) should be introduced beyond the 6th month of life. Another important aspect of gluten introduction into the diet has to do with its possible role in causing type-1 diabetes (IDDM). Recently, a large epidemiological investigation in a cohort of children at risk for IDDM found that exposure to cereals (rice, wheat, oats, barley, rye) that occurred early (< or = 3 months) as well as late (> or = 7 months) resulted in a significantly higher risk of the appearance of islet cell autoimmunity compared to the introduction between 4 and 6 months. As for celiac disease, the protective role of breastfeeding can be considered ascertained, especially the protection offered by having gluten introduced while breastfeeding is continued. Evidence is emerging that early (< or = 3 months) and perhaps even late (7 months or after) first exposure to gluten may favor the onset of celiac disease in predisposed individuals. Additionally, large amounts of gluten at weaning are associated with an increased risk of developing celiac disease, as documented in studies from Scandinavian countries. In celiac children observed in our center, we could show that breastfeeding at the time of gluten introduction delays the appearance of celiac disease and makes it less likely that its presentation is predominantly gastrointestinal. Based on current evidence, it appears reasonable to recommend that gluten be introduced in small amounts in the diet between 4 and 6 months, while the infant is breastfed, and that breastfeeding is continued for at least a further 2-3 months.
17665216	Drought tolerance (DT) in rice is known to be controlled by many quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and involved differential expression of large numbers of genes, but linking QTLs with their underlying genes remains the most challenging issue in plant molecular biology. To shed some light on this issue, differential gene expression in response to PEG simulated drought in 3 unique genetic materials (a lowland rice, IR64 and its derived line, PD86 which has 11 introgressed DT QTLs, and a upland rice IRAT109) was investigated using a PCR-based subtractive hybridization strategy. More than 300 unique subtracted cDNA sequences, covering genes of diverse cellular activities and functions, were identified and confirmed by semi-quantitative and quantitative RT-PCR. Detailed bioinformatics analyses of the data revealed two interesting results. First, the levels and mechanisms of DT of the three rice lines were associated with the number and types of differentially expressed genes, suggesting different DT mechanisms in rice are controlled by different sets of genes and different metabolic pathways, and most differentially expressed genes under drought were able to contribute to DT. Second, there appeared a high correspondence in genomic location between DT QTLs and clusters of differentially expressed genes in rice, suggesting some DT QTLs may represent clusters of co-regulated and functionally related genes. Thus, differential gene expression analyses using genetically characterized materials can provide additional insights into the molecular basis of QTLs and convergent evidence to shortlist the candidate genes for target QTLs.
17665235	Laccase production from a novel actinobacterial strain, Streptomyces psammoticus, MTCC 7334 was optimized in solid-state fermentation. The process parameters were initially optimized by the conventional "one factor at a time" approach, and the optimal levels of the factors that had considerable influence on enzyme production were identified by response surface methodology. Rice straw was identified as a suitable substrate for laccase production (17.3 U/g), followed by coffee pulp (15.8 U/g). Other optimized conditions were particle size, 500-1,000 mum (21.2 U/g); initial moisture content, 65% (26.8 U/g); pH of moistening solution, 8.0 (26.9 U/g); incubation temperature, 32 degrees C (27.6 U/g) and inoculum size, 1.5 x 10(7) CFU (33.8 U/g). Yeast extract served as the best nitrogen source (34.8 U/g). No enhancement in enzyme yield was observed with carbon supplementation. The level of yeast extract, inoculum size and copper sulphate were optimized statistically. Statistical optimization performed using a central composite design resulted in threefold increase in laccase activity (55.4 U/g) as compared to the unoptimized medium (17.3 U/g). The upgrading of fermented rice straw for fodder enhancement is also discussed briefly.
17666026	Duplicated APETALA1/FRUITFULL (AP1/FUL) genes show distinct but overlapping patterns of expression within rice (Oryza sativa) and within ryegrass (Lolium temulentum), suggesting discrete functional roles in the transition to flowering, specification of spikelet meristem identity, and specification of floral organ identity. In this study, we analyzed the expression of the AP1/FUL paralogues FUL1 and FUL2 across phylogenetically disparate grasses to test hypotheses of gene function. In combination with other studies, our data support similar roles for both genes in spikelet meristem identity, a general role for FUL1 in floral organ identity, and a more specific role for FUL2 in outer floral whorl identity. In contrast to Arabidopsis AP1/FUL genes, expression of FUL1 and FUL2 is consistent with an early role in the transition to flowering. In general, FUL1 has a wider expression pattern in all spikelet organs than FUL2, but both genes are expressed in all spikelet organs in some cereals. FUL1 and FUL2 appear to have multiple redundant functions in early inflorescence development. We hypothesize that sub-functionalization of FUL2 and interaction of FUL2 with LHS1 could specify lemma and palea identity in the grass floret.
17666027	Inflorescence architecture is one of the most important agronomical traits. Characterization of rice aberrant panicle organization 1 (apo1) mutants revealed that APO1 positively controls spikelet number by suppressing the precocious conversion of inflorescence meristems to spikelet meristems. In addition, APO1 is associated with the regulation of the plastchron, floral organ identity, and floral determinacy. Phenotypic analyses of apo1 and floral homeotic double mutants demonstrate that APO1 positively regulates class-C floral homeotic genes, but not class-B genes. Molecular studies revealed that APO1 encodes an F-box protein, an ortholog of Arabidopsis UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGAN (UFO), which is a positive regulator of class-B genes. Overexpression of APO1 caused an increase in inflorescence branches and spikelets. As the mutant inflorescences and flowers differed considerably between apo1 and ufo, the functions of APO1 and UFO appear to have diverged during evolution.
17668189	A polyclonal antibody against ochratoxin A (OTA) was produced from rabbits immunized with the OTA-BSA conjugate. A competitive direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (cdELISA) and a membrane-base colloidal gold immunoassay in flow-through format were developed for the rapid detection of OTA in various food matrices. In the cdELISA, the concentration causing 50% inhibition was 0.07 ng mL(-1), and the effects of different chemical conditions (ionic strength, pH value, and organic solvent) were studied. The sensitivity of the assay was higher than those previously reported. A simple, rapid, and efficient extraction method was developed and 74-110% recoveries of spiked samples were obtained. Fifty percent methanol extracts of some food samples such as barley, wheat, oat, corn, rice, and raisins could be analyzed directly by immunoassay after dilution in PBS; grape juice and beer samples could be analyzed directly after dilution with PBS; for coffee samples, a more complex method was used to remove the matrix effect effectively. Membrane-based colloidal gold immunoassays had a visual detection limit of 1.0 ng mL(-1) for OTA with a detection time of less than 10 min. For the validation of the cdELISA and membrane-based colloidal gold immunoassay, samples were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. The correlation between data obtained using the microwell assay and HPLC was good (R2 = 0.984). The developed immunoassay methods are suitable for the rapid quantitative or qualitative determination of OTA in food samples.
17669266	A glutathione S-transferase (GST) related to the phi (F) class of enzymes only found in plants has been cloned from the Oryza sativa. The GST cDNA was cloned by PCR using oligonucleotide primers based on the OsGSTF5 (GenBank Accession No. AF309382) sequences. The cDNA was composed of a 669-bp open reading frame encoding for 223 amino acids. The deduced peptide of this gene shared on overall identity of 75% with other known phi class GST sequences. On the other hands, the OsGSTF5 sequence showed only 34% identity with the sequence of the OsGSTF3 cloned by our previous study (Cho et al., 2005). This gene was expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET vector system and the gene product was purified to homogeneity by GSH-Sepharose affinity column chromatography. The expressed OsGSTF5 formed a homo-dimer composed of 28 kDa subunit and its pI value was approximately 7.8. The expressed OsGSTF5 displayed glutathione conjugation activity toward 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane and glutathione peroxidase activity toward cumene hydroperoxide. The OsGSTF5 also had high activities towards the herbicides alachlor, atrazine and metolachlor. The OsGSTF5 was highly sensitive to inhibition by ShexylGSH, benastatin A and hematin. We propose from these results that the expressed OsGSTF5 is a phi class GST and appears to play a role in the conjugation of herbicide and GPOX activity.
17669319	To describe the prevalence of atopic eczema (AE) and to find the characteristics of the diet of children with AE. Descriptive, transversal study. Primary schools. The study used the standardized and validated questionnaire of the ISAAC phase III study, which finds the prevalence of AE in children and enables inter-centre comparison to be conducted. A questionnaire about food consumption was included. The prevalence ratio (PR) of AE and food consumption (95% confidence intervals) was calculated. A total of 28 448 children aged 6-7 were included in the study. The prevalence of clinically diagnosed AE was 15.35% in boys and 15.24% in girls. The foods most often consumed were: dairy and cereals, followed by rice, pasta, and eggs. The least consumed were: butter, margarine, and fast food. The PR for children who consumed pasta was (PR=1.35), seafood (PR=1.28), cereals (PR=1.26), eggs (PR=1.13), and meat (PR=1.09). The prevalence of AE in Spain was 15.3%, and was associated with food consumption. The consumption of dairy products, cereals, and olive oil was appropriate. The intake of fruit, vegetables, seafood, and legumes was below the recommended amounts. Future studies on the question are needed.
17669647	An integrated approach to extraction and refining of RBO using supercritical carbon dioxide (SC-CO2) in order to preserve the nutritionally important phytochemicals is reported here. Process variables such as pressure, temperature, time, solvent flow rate and packing material on extraction yield and quality of RBO were investigated using a pilot model SC-CO2 extraction system. Three isobaric (350, 425 and 500 bar), three isothermal temperatures (50, 60 and 70 degrees C), three extraction times (0.5, 1 and 1.5h), at 40/min CO2 flow rate and three packing materials (pebbles, glass beads and structured SS rings) were employed. The RBO yield with SC-CO2 extraction increased with temperature and time under isobaric conditions. At the 60 degrees C isotherm, an increase in the RBO yield was obtained with an increase in the pressure and time. The RBO yield increased significantly with structured SS rings used as packing material. The RBO extracted with SC-CO2 had negligible phosphatides, wax and prooxidant metals (Fe and Cu) and was far superior in color quality when compared with RBO extracted with hexane. At the optimum condition of extraction at 500 bar, 60 degrees C for 1.5h, with structured SS rings used as packing material, the yield of RBO was comparable with that of hexane extraction (22.5%). The phytochemical contents of the RBO under the optimum conditions were in the range of tocols, 1500-1800 ppm; sterols, 15,350-19,120 ppm and oryzanol 5800-11,110 ppm.
17671374	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. Several enzymes that are secreted through the type II secretion system of this bacterium play an important role in the plant-microbe interaction, being important for virulence and also being able to induce potent host defence responses. One of these enzymes is a secretory lipase/esterase, LipA, which shows a very weak homology to other bacterial lipases and gives a positive tributyrin plate assay. In this study, LipA was purified from the culture supernatant of an overexpressing clone of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and two types of crystals belonging to space group C2 but with two different unit-cell parameters were obtained using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. Type I crystals diffract to a maximum resolution of 1.89 A and have unit-cell parameters a = 93.1, b = 62.3, c = 66.1 A, beta = 90.8 degrees . Type II crystals have unit-cell parameters a = 103.6, b = 54.6, c = 66.3 A, beta = 92.6 degrees and diffract to 1.86 A. Solvent-content analysis shows one monomer in the asymmetric unit in both the crystal forms.
17672294	The hrp genes of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xooc), which is the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak in rice, possesses the ability to elicit hypersensitive response on nonhost plants and the pathogenicity in host rice. In order to analyze the function of the hrp genes, we developed hrp-inducing systems using transcriptional hrp: :gfp fusions with the promoters of hrpX and hpa 1 of Xooc. The levels of GFP protein expression indicated that the hrp gene expression in Xooc was not efficiently induced in NB medium, but efficiently in XOM3 medium. Using the hrpG and hrpX mutants of Xooc as the controls, the results by RT-PCR demonstrated that in wild type strain the expression of the hpa1 gene was suppressed in NB medium, but was increased in XOM3 medium. When incubated in XOM3, the expression of the hpa1 gene was abolished in hrpX mutant, while the level of the hpa1 gene expression was lower in the hrpG mutant than that in wild-type strain. More importantly, it was found that the induction of the hrp gene expression was strongly increased in response to rice suspension cells and callus in this study. This suggests that the hrp-inducing systems, XOM3 or rice suspension cells or rice callus, for the induction of the hrp genes expression be useful for functionally analyzing the hrp genes, mining effectors secreted by the type III secretion apparatus and understanding pathogenicity determinats of Xooc.
17672295	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), a Gram-negative bacterium, is the causal agent of rice bacterial blight disease, which can cause severe yield loss of rice worldwide. To identify genes contributing to virulence and explore the possible mechanism of pathogenicity, transposon mutagenesis was used to isolate nonpathogenic mutants. By screening of a high-quality Tn5-like transposon (EZ: :TN) insertional mutant library of Xoo PXO99 against a host plant (rice cultivar IR24), one virulence-deficient mutant, XOG11, was identified. Genomic fragment flanking the insertion site of the mutant was amplified by thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chian reaction (TAIL-PCR) and sequenced. The result of NCBI blast homologue searching of the fragment shows that the transposon was inserted into a hrp associated gene, hpaB. Xoo hpaB gene is one of the hrp gene cluster members that encode a type [I secretion system (TTSS) and locates at the downstream of hrpE. The product of hpaB in Xoo is a small (Molecular Weight, 17.6kDa), acidic (PI, 4.28) and Leucine-rich (14.4%) protein and shares high homology with corresponding proteins in other Xanthomonas. It suggests that HpaB may play as a TTSS chaperone. Mutant XOGl1 was confirmed both by PCR and Southern blotting: The PCR result by using primers upstream and downstream of hpaB respectively verified Tn5 insertion in hpaB and excluded the rare case of second transfer of the transposon associated with flanking sequence; Southern blot of digested genomic DNA with the probe of Km resistance gene aph proved that XOG11 was inserted by a single-copy transposon, indicating that the loss of pathogenicity in XOG11 was due to the Tn5 insertion in hpaB gene. Genetic complementation by cloning hpaB in the wide host range plasmid pHMI and transferring the recombinant plasmid into XOG11 restored its pathogenicity in IR24. These results suggest that the pathogenicity deficiency of XOG11 is due to the mutation of hpaB gene.
17672917	In plants, complex regulatory mechanisms are at the core of physiological and developmental processes. The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) is involved in the regulation of various such processes, including stomatal closure, seed and bud dormancy, and physiological responses to cold, drought and salinity stress. The underlying tissue or plant-wide control circuits often include combinatorial gene regulatory mechanisms and networks that we are only beginning to unravel with the help of new molecular tools. The increasing availability of genomic sequences and gene expression data enables us to dissect ABA regulatory mechanisms at the individual gene expression level. In this paper we used an in-silico-based approach directed towards genome-wide prediction and identification of specific features of ABA-responsive elements. In particular we analysed the genome-wide occurrence and positional arrangements of two well-described ABA-responsive cis-regulatory elements (CREs), ABRE and CE3, in thale cress (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa). Our results show that Arabidopsis and rice use the ABA-responsive elements ABRE and CE3 distinctively. Earlier reports for various monocots have identified CE3 as a coupling element (CE) associated with ABRE. Surprisingly, we found that while ABRE is equally abundant in both species, CE3 is practically absent in Arabidopsis. ABRE-ABRE pairs are common in both genomes, suggesting that these can form functional ABA-responsive complexes (ABRCs) in Arabidopsis and rice. Furthermore, we detected distinct combinations, orientation patterns and DNA strand preferences of ABRE and CE3 motifs in rice gene promoters. Our computational analyses revealed distinct recruitment patterns of ABA-responsive CREs in upstream sequences of Arabidopsis and rice. The apparent absence of CE3s in Arabidopsis suggests that another CE pairs with ABRE to establish a functional ABRC capable of interacting with transcription factors. Further studies will be needed to test whether the observed differences are extrapolatable to monocots and dicots in general, and to understand how they contribute to the fine-tuning of the hormonal response. The outcome of our investigation can now be used to direct future experimentation designed to further dissect the ABA-dependent regulatory networks.
17673878	Thiamine, or vitamin B1, is a water-soluble B complex vitamin that was first discovered in 1910 in the process of exploring how rice bran cured patients of beriberi. Thiamine is not synthesized in humans, therefore its availability for necessary cellular processes hinges on its continual ingestion. The amount of thiamine one needs to ingest to maintain balance is disease state-dependent or medication-dependent. Severe chronic thiamine deficiency can have significant neurologic and cardiac effects, the latter is reflected in a particular type of heart failure called wet beriberi. This form of heart failure clearly benefits from thiamine supplementation. It is unclear, however, whether thiamine supplementation offers any benefit in other forms of heart failure. Despite this, it is not unreasonable for heart failure patients to routinely ingest a thiamine-containing multivitamin; patients using diuretics have an increased urinary excretion of thiamine and thus are at a higher risk for developing thiamine deficiency. The role of thiamine in heart failure, however, remains arguable.
17674756	Aimed to utilize rice straw and lessen the pressure of environment, the rice straw was used as the fermentation material, and a lactic acid bacteria community SFC-2 from my laboratory was inoculated into the rice straw to investigate the inoculation effects. After 30 days fermentation, the inoculated fermented straw smelt acid-fragrant, and the pH value was 3.8, which was lower than the control of 4.1. Furthermore, lactic acid concentration was more than that in the control. Especially L-lactic acid concentration was two times more than in the control, and the crude protein content was 10.16% higher than that in the control, and the crude fiber content was 3.2% lower than that in the control. From the patterns of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus fermentum and Lactobacillus paracasei rapidly became the advantageous species in the inoculated straws. However, Enterobacter sakazakii, Pantoea agglomerans, Enterobacter endosymbiont, Pantoea ananatis, whichwere predominate in the controls, were not detected in the inoculated straws, and the fermented quality was improved significantly.
17674778	Protein kinases are essential for the regulation of cell growth and development in plant. Based on rice genomic sequences obtained from the database, bioinformatics analysis of homology sequences suggested over 1500 kinases in rice. In this study, 32 PCR primers were synthesized based on conserved domains of known kinases, 30 intron-free kinase PCR products were obtained, among them, 27 kinases were expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae with visible band after separated by SDS-PAGE and stained by Coomassie Blue. According to annotation, 27 kinases belong to 7 groups in the first class on PlantsP (http://plantsp.genomics.purdue.edu/), Receptor like cytoplasmic kinase VII, CRPK1 Like Kinase, Crinkly 4_Like kinase, Plant External Response Like Kinase, S-Domain Kinase (Type 2), Legume Lectin Domain Kinase, Wall associate kinase, respectively. Furthermore, 17 kinases showed enzyme activity detected by autophosphorylation experiment. The results provide critical materials to the study of biochemical prosperities and substrate identification.
17674779	As a crucial transcription factor family,heat-shock factors were mainly analyzed and characterized in tomato and Arabidposis. In this study, we isolated a putative heat-shock factor OsHSF13 that interacted specifically with heat-shock element (HSE) from Oryza sativa L. by yeast one-hybrid method. The full-length cDNA of OsHSF13 has a 1047bp open reading frame (ORF). It has HSF special DNA-binding domain (DBD) and oligomerization domain (OD). Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences revealed that OsHSF13 was a class C heat shock factor (HSF) with all the conserved sequence elements characteristic of heat stress transcription factor. Bioinformatic analysis showed that the sequence and structure of OsHSF13's DNA binding domain had a high similarity with LpHSF24.
17674805	To explore the origin of Monascus Rice. The relative literature were investigated and classified. It was verifiable that the record of Monascus Rice in Chu Xue Ji ([Chinese characters: see text]), a subject-based reference book compiled by Xu Jian in the Tang Dynasty, was excerpted from the metrical verse Qi Shi ([Chinese characters: see text]) written by Wang Can in the Dong Han Dynasty. It is no doubt the name of Monascus Rice was originally used in this peried. The use of Monascus Rice can be traced at least to the Han Dynasty.
17675162	As many rice wine brewers label the name of the cultivar of the material rice, authentication technology is necessary. The problems are (1) decomposition of DNAs during the fermentation, (2) contamination of DNAs from microorganisms, (3) co-existence of PCR inhibitors, such as polyphenols. The present authors improved the PCR method by (1) lyophilizing and pulverizing the rice wine to concentrate DNAs, (2) decomposition of starches and proteins so as not to inhibit DNA extraction by the use of heat-resistant amylase and proteinase K, (3) purification of the template DNA by the combination of CTAB method and fractional precipitation by 70% EtOH. To prevent the amplification of microorganism's DNAs during PCR, the present authors selected the suitable plant-specific primers. It became possible to prepare the template DNAs for PCR from the rice wine. The sequences of the amplified DNAs by PCR were ascertained to be same with those of material rice. Mislabeling of material rice cultivar was detected by PCR using the commercial rice wine. It became possible to extract and purify the template DNAs for PCR from the rice wine and to differentiate the material rice cultivars by the PCR using the rice wine as a sample.
17675402	The rice (Oryza sativa) genome contains 18 copies of genes of the ARGONAUTE (AGO) family. Although AGO members play important roles in RNA-mediated silencing during plant development, a family member that is specifically involved in sexual reproduction has not been identified in plants. We identified the rice AGO gene MEIOSIS ARRESTED AT LEPTOTENE1 (MEL1) from the analysis of seed-sterile mutants. In the mel1 mutant, chromosome condensation was arrested at early meiotic stages and irregularly sized, multinucleated, and vacuolated pollen mother cells (PMCs) frequently appeared in developing anthers. In addition, histone H3 lysine-9 dimethylation of pericentromeres was rarely reduced and modification of the nucleolar-organizing region was altered in mel1 mutant PMCs. The mutation also affected female germ cell development. These results indicate that the germ cell-specific rice MEL1 gene regulates the cell division of premeiotic germ cells, the proper modification of meiotic chromosomes, and the faithful progression of meiosis, probably via small RNA-mediated gene silencing, but not the initiation and establishment of germ cells themselves.
17675406	We describe a boron (B) transporter, Os BOR1, in rice (Oryza sativa). Os BOR1 is a plasma membrane-localized efflux transporter of B and is required for normal growth of rice plants under conditions of limited B supply (referred to as -B). Disruption of Os BOR1 reduced B uptake and xylem loading of B. The accumulation of Os BOR1 transcripts was higher in roots than that in shoots and was not affected by B deprivation; however, Os BOR1 was detected in the roots of wild-type plants under -B conditions, but not under normal conditions, suggesting regulation of protein accumulation in response to B nutrition. Interestingly, tissue specificity of Os BOR1 expression is affected by B treatment. Transgenic rice plants containing an Os BOR1 promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion construct grown with a normal B supply showed the strongest GUS activity in the steles, whereas after 3 d of -B treatment, GUS activity was elevated in the exodermis. After 6 d of -B treatment, GUS activity was again strong in the stele. Our results demonstrate that Os BOR1 is required both for efficient B uptake and for xylem loading of B. Possible roles of the temporal changes in tissue-specific patterns of Os BOR1 expression in response to B condition are discussed.
17675664	A new method for enrichment of phosphopeptides in complex mixtures derived by proteolytic digestion of biological samples has been developed. The method is based on calcium phosphate precipitation of the phosphopeptides prior to further enrichment with established affinity enrichment methods. Calcium phosphate precipitation combined with phosphopeptide enrichment using Fe(III) IMAC provided highly selective enrichment of phosphopeptides. Application of the method to a complex peptide sample derived from rice embryo resulted in more than 90% phosphopeptides in the enriched sample as determined by mass spectrometry. Introduction of a two-step IMAC enrichment procedure after calcium phosphate precipitation resulted in observation of an increased number of phosphopeptides.
17675760	Protein translocation channel in endosplasmic reticulum (ER) of eukaryotes is composed of several subunits of Sec61 complex, which is essential for protein secretion. In the present study, we cloned a full-length cDNA fragment of 621 bp coding 107 amino acids from a psychrophile and endangered plant Gymnadenia conopsea, which grows in high land. Sequence analysis revealed that the gene was highly homologous to the member Sec61beta of ER protein transporter channel, which was thus designated as GcSec61beta. Phylogenetic tree shows that the GcSec61beta was closely related to the corresponding genes from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. Results of semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed that the expression of GcSec61beta was high both in leaves and the bud, and also induced by low temperature treatment. The sequence of the GcSec61beta was introduced into pET28a vector and transformed to E. coli strain BL21. The growth of E. coli was slowed down but the cold resistance was increased by the expression of GcSec61beta, which provides a new function of GcSec61beta protein.
17676337	Developmental gene families have diversified during land plant evolution. The primary role of YABBY gene family is promoting abaxial fate in model eudicot, Arabidopsis thaliana. However recent results suggest that roles of YABBY genes are not conserved in the angiosperms. In this paper, a rice YABBY gene was isolated, and its expression patterns were analyzed in detail. Sequence characterization and phylogenetic analyses showed the gene is OsYABBY4, which is group-classified into FIL/YAB3 subfamily. Beta-glucuronidase reporter assay and in situ analysis consistently revealed that OsYABBY4 was expressed in the meristems and developing vascular tissue of rice, predominantly in the phloem tissue, suggesting that the function of the rice gene is different from those of its counterparts in eudicots. OsYABBY4 may have been recruited to regulate the development of vasculature in rice. However, transgenic Arabidopsis plants ectopically expressing OsYABBY4 behaved very like those over-expressing FIL or YAB3 with abaxialized lateral organs, suggesting the OsYABBY4 protein domain is conserved with its Arabidopsis counterparts in sequences. Our results also indicate that the functional diversification of OsYABBY4 may be associated with the divergent spatial-temporal expression patterns, and YABBY family members may have preserved different expression regulatory systems and functions during the evolution of different kinds of species.
17677872	Raman and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy experiments have demonstrated that in superconducting underdoped cuprates nodal and antinodal regions are characterized by two energy scales instead of the one expected in BCS theory. The nodal scale decreases with underdoping while the antinodal one increases. Contrary to the behavior expected for an increasing energy scale, the antinodal Raman intensity decreases with decreasing doping. Using the Yang-Rice-Zhang model, we show that these features are a consequence of the nonconventional nature of the superconducting state in which superconductivity and pseudogap correlations are both present and compete for the phase space.
17679443	A method is presented for the determination of difenoconazole residue in all kinds of foods by solid phase extraction-gas chromatography-negative chemical ionization mass spectrometry (SPE-GC-MS/NCI). Difenoconazole residue was extracted with ethyl acetate from different samples, such as perilla leaves, carrots, spinach powder, rice, gram, jasmine flower tea, oolong tea, strawberries, sauce, bee honey, beef, chicken and eels, etc. The extracts were cleaned-up by active carbon SPE column connected to alumina neutral SPE column or Florisil SPE column only. Analytical screening was determined by the technique of GC-MS/NCI on selected ion monitoring mode. The recoveries of difenoconazole in most samples were in the range from 70% to 120% at three spiked levels, 0.01 mg/kg, 0.04 mg/kg and 0.10 mg/kg, and the relative standard deviations (RSDs) were below 9.5%. The linearity of the method is good from 0.02 to 1.00 mg/L, and limit of detection (LOD) was 0.000 5 or 0.001 mg/kg for different type samples. The method is selective without interference and is suitable for determination and conformation of difenoconazole residue in all kinds of foods.
17679780	Raw white rice has not been considered a good carrier for oral vaccination, probably because of its antiviral activity. Methods are required to overcome antiviral activity in raw white rice. This study was carried out to determine the effects of various treatments of raw white rice on the survival of strain I-2 of Newcastle disease virus. These included cooking and baking the rice or mixing the rice with vegetable oil prior to coating with vaccine virus. The vaccine-coated rice was then stored for 30 min and 24 h, followed by quantitative recovery of the virus. Thirty min after mixing, uncooked, cooked, and baked rice, and rice mixed with vegetable oil showed titers of 10(6.2), 10(7.2), 10(6.6), and 10(7.0) EID(50)/0.1 ml, respectively. After storage for 24 h at 22-25oC, the titers dropped to 10(5.0), 10(6.5), 10(5.0), and 10(6.0) EID(50)/0.1 ml for uncooked, cooked, baked, and oiled rice, respectively.
17680272	Nitrate response element (NRE) was originally reported to be comprised of an Ag/cTCA core sequence motif preceded by a 7-bp AT rich region, based on promoter deletion analyses in nitrate and nitrite reductases from Arabidopsis thaliana and birch. In view of hundreds of new nitrate responsive genes discovered recently, we sought to computationally verify whether the above motif indeed qualifies to be the cis-acting NRE for all the responsive genes. We searched for the specific occurrence of at least two copies of the above motif in and around the nitrate responsive genes and elsewhere in the Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) genomes, with respect to their positional, orientational and strand-specific bias. This is the first comprehensive analysis of NREs for 625 nitrate responsive genes of Arabidopsis and their rice homologs, representing dicots and monocots, respectively. We report that the above motifs are present almost randomly throughout these genomes and do not reveal any specificity or bias towards nitrate responsive genes. This also seems to be true for smaller subsets of nitrate responsive genes in Arabidopsis, such as the 21 early responsive genes, 261 and 90 genes for root-specific and shoot-specific response, respectively, and 25 housekeeping genes. This necessitates a fresh search for candidate sequences that qualify to be NREs in these and other plants.
17681400	Oxidative stress and ultrastructural changes under hexavalent chromium stress were investigated in developing rice seedlings. Chromium treatment for 24 or 48h resulted in inhibition of root length and dry biomass. Atomic absorption spectrometry analysis of roots showed that chromium accumulation increased with increase in concentration and duration of metal treatment. Chromium resulted in increased production of hydrogen peroxide and superoxide radical in root cells, which was a significant change after 48h of treatment. Time-course analysis of malondialdehyde content showed no substantial variation during early treatment periods (2, 6 or 12h). Increase in malondialdehyde content was observed only after 18h and it continued to increase until 48h after treatment. Loss of membrane integrity, analyzed in terms of Evans blue uptake in root cells, showed an increase in uptake of the reagent, indicating loss of membrane integrity. The antioxidant enzyme, viz., guaiacol peroxidase, was least affected, while glutathione reductase showed significant decline after 24 or 48h of metal treatment, followed by increased activity of superoxide dismutase. The level of ascorbate was not affected by chromium, while an increase in the level of glutathione was observed. At the ultrastructural level, potential damage to the root cell was noted after 48h at 100microM of chromium compared with controls.
17681755	The application of low-cost adsorbents obtained from plant wastes as a replacement for costly conventional methods of removing heavy metal ions from wastewater has been reviewed. It is well known that cellulosic waste materials can be obtained and employed as cheap adsorbents and their performance to remove heavy metal ions can be affected upon chemical treatment. In general, chemically modified plant wastes exhibit higher adsorption capacities than unmodified forms. Numerous chemicals have been used for modifications which include mineral and organic acids, bases, oxidizing agent, organic compounds, etc. In this review, an extensive list of plant wastes as adsorbents including rice husks, spent grain, sawdust, sugarcane bagasse, fruit wastes, weeds and others has been compiled. Some of the treated adsorbents show good adsorption capacities for Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn and Ni.
17681931	A mapping population of 98 backcross inbred lines (BC1F12 and BC1F13), derived from a backcross of Nipponbare (japonica) / Kasalath (indica) // Nipponbare by the single seed descent methods, was employed to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) of the uppermost internode length in rice under different growing environments by composite interval mapping method. The results showed that 13 QTLs relating to the uppermost internode length were detected under three differ- ent growing environments, and these QTLs were located on chromosome 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11, explained 3.97 -15.21% of observed phenotypic variance, respectively. The locus of qUIL-6 was detected in three growing environments, and qUIL-1a, qUIL-3a, qUIL-3b and qUIL-10a were detected in two growing environments, indicating that these QTLs were stable and little affected by the environment.
17681932	Gene cry1Ab was transformed into Minghui 63 (Oryza sativa L.) via Agrobacterium and several homozygous transgenic lines were obtained. In this study, the copy numbers, Bt protein contents, insect resistance, and main agronomic traits of these lines were examined. All these lines had single-copy number of cry1Ab through Southern blotting analysis. The line T(1Ab)-10 and its hybrid expressed the higher Cry1Ab proteins than any other lines and their corresponding hybrids when assayed by ELISA. After artificial infestation of first-instar YSB (Yellow stem borer) and natural affection of stemborers and leaffolders, the line T(1Ab)-10 showed high insect-resistant to these insects. Field trial displayed that, under the pesticide-applying condition, there was no statistical difference between the negative plants of T(1Ab)-10 and control cultivar Minghui 63. These results indicate that the transgenic line T(1Ab)-10 has the potential for commercialization and gene stack-ing.
17682353	To evaluate the dietary contribution of culturally preferred foods in a population of Black Seventh-Day Adventists from the eastern and southern United States in order to improve the standard food frequency questionnaire. Intake of such foods was assessed using a specially designed self-administered food frequency questionnaire consisting of a list of 60 items. A demographic questionnaire was administered by later telephone interview. Southern and northeastern United States. One hundred and sixty-one Black Seventh-Day Adventists were selected from 60 congregations. Approximately half had Caribbean roots. Among the special foods included, red beans stood out and were among the top five contributors to eight of nine selected nutrients. Various legumes, cruciferous vegetables, and okra-corn-tomatoes were the most frequently consumed special foods. Macaroni and cheese was an important contributor to total energy, fat, saturated fat, and protein. At least weekly consumption of red beans, rice and beans, pinto beans, black-eyed peas, plantains and poke salad was reported by 47%, 40%, 31%, 28%, 26% and 25% of subjects, respectively. These foods (largely the legumes) contributed 77% and 104% of the dietary reference intakes for folate and total fiber, respectively. On average, all these foods contributed an estimated 726 calories per day. These findings show that, in total, these foods make a major contribution to the diets of these subjects and that the most commonly eaten at least should be included in dietary questionnaires designed for this minority population.
17682596
17683575	Pairing and synapsis of homologous chromosomes is required for normal chromosome segregation and the exchange of genetic material via recombination during meiosis. Synapsis is complete at pachytene following the formation of a tri-partite proteinaceous structure known as the synaptonemal complex (SC). In yeast, HOP1 is essential for formation of the SC, and localises along chromosome axes during prophase I. Homologues in Arabidopsis (AtASY1), Brassica (BoASY1) and rice (OsPAIR2) have been isolated through analysis of mutants that display decreased fertility due to severely reduced synapsis of homologous chromosomes. Analysis of these genes has indicated that they play a similar role to HOP1 in pairing and formation of the SC through localisation to axial/lateral elements of the SC. The full length wheat cDNA and genomic clone, TaASY1, has been isolated, sequenced and characterised. TaASY1 is located on chromosome Group 5 and the open reading frame displays significant nucleotide sequence identity to OsPAIR2 (84%) and AtASY1 (63%). Transcript and protein analysis showed that expression is largely restricted to meiotic tissue, with elevated levels during the stages of prophase I when pairing and synapsis of homologous chromosomes occur. Immunolocalisation using transmission electron microscopy showed TaASY1 interacts with chromatin that is associated with both axial elements before SC formation as well as lateral elements of formed SCs. TaASY1 is a homologue of ScHOP1, AtASY1 and OsPAIR2 and is the first gene to be isolated from bread wheat that is involved in pairing and synapsis of homologous chromosomes.
17684261	Two strictly anaerobic bacterial strains, KB7(T) and A42, were isolated from rice plant residue and living rice roots, respectively, from irrigated rice-field soil in Japan. These two strains were closely related to each other with 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity of 99.8 %. Both strains showed almost the same physiological properties. Cells were Gram-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming rods. Growth was remarkably stimulated by the addition of haemin to the medium. The strains utilized various saccharides including xylan, xylose, pectin and carboxymethylcellulose and produced acetate and succinate with small amounts of formate and malate. The strains grew at 10-40 degrees C; optimum growth was observed at 30 degrees C and pH 5.7-6.7. Oxidase, catalase and nitrate-reducing activities were not detected. Aesculin was hydrolysed. The major cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(15 : 0), C(15 : 0) and iso-C(17 : 0) 3-OH. Menaquinones MK-11 and MK-11(H(2)) were the major respiratory quinones and the genomic DNA G+C content was 39.2 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences placed both strains in the phylum Bacteroidetes. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that the most related species to both strains was Prevotella oulorum (92.8-92.9 % similarity). Prevotella veroralis and Prevotella melaninogenica were the next most closely related known species with sequence similarities of 91.9-92.4 %. Based on differences in the phylogenetic, ecological, physiological and chemotaxonomic characteristics between the two isolates and related species, it is proposed that strains KB7(T) and A42 represent a novel species, Prevotella paludivivens sp. nov. This is the first described Prevotella species derived from a natural habitat; all other Prevotella species are from mammalian sources. The type strain of Prevotella paludivivens is KB7(T) (=JCM 13650(T)=DSM 17968(T)).
17684834
17685331	Melastoma candidum D. Don, a Taiwanese folk medicinal plant, has high levels of antibacterial and bactericidal activity. Our aim was to determine whether and to what extent an acetone extract of this plant inhibits the growth of foodborne pathogenic bacteria. M. candidum acetone extract had marked inhibitory effect on test bacteria introduced into sliced pork, which was then stored at 4 degrees C. At the end of storage (day 12), the bacterial concentrations dropped by 1.59 to 2.91 log CFU/g compared with the control. In steamed rice stored at 30 degrees C, a 0.2% extract decreased initial (before storage) concentrations of Bacillus cereus from 2.01 log CFU/g to an undetectable level, which remained for at least 24 h. After 72 to 168 h of storage, test bacterial concentrations were reduced by 2.59 to 5.66 log CFU/g. In fresh noodles stored at 30 degrees C, both initial and final bacterial concentrations were decreased. At the end of storage (72 to 168 h), test bacteria concentrations were reduced by 1.85 to 2.88 log CFU/g. Overall, M. candidum acetone extract had an inhibitory effect on foodborne pathogenic bacteria in different food model systems.
17685649	Anti-Stokes Raman scattering is used to monitor vibrational energy redistribution in the ambient temperature liquids nitromethane (NM-h3) and perdeuterated nitromethane (NM-d3) after ultrafast IR excitation of either the symmetric or asymmetric CH- or CD-stretch transitions. The instantaneous populations of most of the fifteen NM vibrations are determined with good accuracy, and a global fitting procedure with a master equation is used to fit all the data. The pump pulses excite not only CH- or CD-stretches but also certain combinations of bending and nitro stretching fundamentals. The coupled vibrations that comprise the initial state are revealed via the instantaneous rise of the anti-Stokes transients associated with each vibrational fundamental. In contrast to many other polyatomic liquids studied previously, there is little energy exchange among the CH-stretch (or CD-stretch) excitations, which is attributed to the nearly free rotation of the methyl group in NM. The vibrational cooling process, which is the multistep return to a thermalized state, occurs in three stages in both NM-h3 and NM-d3. In the first stage, the parent CH- or CD-stretch decays in a few picoseconds, exciting all lower-energy vibrations. In the second stage, the midrange vibrations decay in 10-15 ps, exciting the lower-energy vibrations. In the third stage, these lower-energy vibrations decay into the bath in tens of picoseconds. The initial excitations are thermalized in approximately 150 ps in NM-h3 and there is little dependence on which CH-stretch is excited. VC is somewhat faster in NM-d3 with more dependence on the initial CD-stretch, taking approximately 100 ps with symmetric CD-stretch excitation and approximately 120 ps with asymmetric CD-stretch excitation. Comparison is made with earlier nonequilibrium molecular dynamics simulations of VC [Kabadi, V. N.; Rice, B. M. Molecular dynamics simulations of normal mode vibrational energy transfer in liquid nitromethane. J. Phys. Chem. A 2004, 108, 532-540]. The simulations do a good job of reproducing the observed VC process and in addition they predicted the slow interconversion among CH-stretch excitations and the slower relaxation of the asymmetric CH-stretch now observed here.
17686204	To validate food photographs for food portion size estimation of frequently consumed dishes, to be used in a 24-hour recall food consumption study of pregnant women in a rural environment in Burkina Faso. This food intake study is part of an intervention evaluating the efficacy of prenatal micronutrient supplementation on birth outcomes. Women of childbearing age (15-45 years). A food photograph album containing four photographs of food portions per food item was compiled for eight selected food items. Subjects were presented two food items each in the morning and two in the afternoon. These foods were weighed to the exact weight of a food depicted in one of the photographs and were in the same receptacles. The next day another fieldworker presented the food photographs to the subjects to test their ability to choose the correct photograph. The correct photograph out of the four proposed was chosen in 55% of 1028 estimations. For each food, proportions of underestimating and overestimating participants were balanced, except for rice and couscous. On a group level, mean differences between served and estimated portion sizes were between -8.4% and 6.3%. Subjects who attended school were almost twice as likely to choose the correct photograph. The portion size served (small vs. largest sizes) had a significant influence on the portion estimation ability. The results from this study indicate that in a West African rural setting, food photographs can be a valuable tool for the quantification of food portion size on group level.
17686457	Plant genomic projects, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, and maize, have provided excellent tools for comparative genome analysis on Base Excision DNA Repair (BER). A data-mining study associated with the SUCEST Genome project identified two EST clusters that shared homology to the bacteria MutM/Fpg protein. Comparative analyses presented here show a duplication of the MutM/Fpg gene in sugarcane, wheat and rice. The complementation assays show that both cDNAs from sugarcane are able to complement the Fpg and MutY-glycosylase deficiency in a double mutant Escherichia coli strain (CC104mutMmutY), reducing the spontaneous mutation frequency by 10-fold. The expression analyses by semi-quantitative RT-PCR show that these two mRNAs have different expression levels.
17687629	Laccases have numerous biotechnological applications, among them food processing. The widespread use of laccases has increased the demand for an inexpensive and safe source of recombinant enzyme. We explored the use of a rice-based system for the production of two fungal laccases derived from the ascomycete Melanocarpus albomyces and the basidiomycete Pycnoporus cinnabarinus. High-expression levels of active recombinant laccases were achieved by targeting expression to the endosperm of rice seeds. The laccase cDNAs were fused to a plant-derived signal sequence for targeting to the secretory pathway, and placed under the control of a constitutive seed-specific promoter fused to an intron for enhanced expression. This construct enabled the recovery of on average 0.1-1% of soluble laccase in total soluble proteins (TSP). The highest yields of recombinant laccases obtained in rice seeds were 13 and 39 ppm for riceMaL and ricePycL, respectively. The rice-produced laccases were purified and characterized. The wild-type and the recombinant proteins showed similar biochemical features in terms of molecular mass, pI, temperature and optimal pH and the N-terminus was correctly processed. Although presenting lower kinetic parameters, the rice-produced laccases were also suitable for the oxidative cross-linking of a food model substrate [maize-bran feruloylated arabinoxylans (AX)].
17687703	Headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) has been adapted for the efficient determination of furan in foods. Levels of furan in various foods were measured in order to identify the products that contribute most to the human intake of furan. Highest amounts were found in products that were heat treated in sealed containers such as jarred and canned food products and in crusty and dry products such as snacks, biscuits, bread crust, roasted wheat flour and roasted coffee beans. Of the analysed jarred baby food products those containing only meat and starch from rice and corn had low levels of furan. In addition, the fruit products showed similar low levels. Clearly higher concentrations were found in the vegetable and vegetable-meat products. For the adult population coffee seems to be an important product with respect to furan intake. Coffee brews from espresso-type machines had considerably higher amounts of furan than other coffee brews. This type of coffee is considered by experts to have the best coffee aroma. It is assumed that for regular coffee consumers coffee is the most important source of furan intake.
17688196	We have identified 24 members of the DnaK subfamily of heat shock 70 proteins (Hsp70s) in the complete genomes of 5 diverse photosynthetic eukaryotes. The Hsp70s are a ubiquitous protein family that is highly conserved across all domains of life. Eukaryotic Hsp70s are found in a number of subcellular compartments in the cell: cytoplasm, mitochondrion (MT), chloroplast (CP), and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Although the Hsp70s have been the subject of intense study in model organisms, very little is known of the Hsp70s from early diverging photosynthetic lineages. The sequencing of the complete genomes of Thalassiosira pseudonana (a diatom), Cyanidioschyzon merolae (a red alga), and 3 green algae (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Ostreococcus lucimarinus, Ostreococcus tauri) allow us to conduct comparative genomics of the Hsp70s present in these diverse photosynthetic eukaryotes. We have found that the distinct lineages of Hsp70s (MT, CP, ER, and cytoplasmic) each have different evolutionary histories. In general, evolutionary patterns of the mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum Hsp70s are relatively stable even among very distantly related organisms. This is not true of the chloroplast Hsp70s and we discuss the distinct evolutionary patterns between "green" and "red" plastids. Finally, we find that, in contrast to the angiosperms Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa that have numerous cytoplasmic Hsp70, the 5 algal species have only 1 cytoplasmic Hsp70 each. The evolutionary and functional implications of these differences are discussed.
17688297	Epidemiological evidence suggests a role for tea catechins in reduction of chronic disease risk. However, stability of catechins under digestive conditions is poorly understood. The objective of this study was to characterize the effect of common food additives on digestive recovery of tea catechins. Green tea water extracts were formulated in beverages providing 4.5, 18, 23, and 3.5 mg per 100 mL epicatechin (EC), epigallocatechin (EGC), epigallocatechin-gallate (EGCG), and epicatechin-gallate (ECG), respectively. Common commercial beverage additives; citric acid (CA), BHT, EDTA, ascorbic acid (AA), milk (bovine, soy, and rice), and citrus juice (orange, grapefruit, lemon, and lime) were formulated into finished tea beverages at incremental dosages. Samples were then subjected to in vitro digestion simulating gastric and small intestinal conditions with pre- and post-digestion catechin profiles assessed by HPLC. Catechin stability in green tea was poor with <20% total catechins remaining post-digestion. EGC and EGCG were most sensitive with less, not double equals 10% recovery. Teas formulated with 50% bovine, soy, and rice milk increased total catechin recovery significantly to 52, 55, and 69% respectively. Including 30 mg AA in 250 mL of tea beverage significantly (p<0.05) increased catechin recovery of EGC, EGCG, EC, and ECG to 74, 54, 82, and 45% respectively. Juice preparation resulted in the highest recovery of any formulation for EGC (81-98%), EGCG (56-76%), EC (86-95%), and ECG (30-55%). These data provide evidence that tea consumption practices and formulation factors likely impact catechin digestive recovery and may result in diverse physiological profiles.
17688578	Recent breakthroughs in CO(2) fumigation methods using free-air CO(2) enrichment (FACE) technology have prompted comparisons between FACE experiments and enclosure studies with respect to quantification of the effects of projected atmospheric CO(2) concentrations on crop yields. On the basis of one such comparison, it was argued that model projections of future food supply (some of which are based on older enclosure data) may have significantly overestimated the positive effect of elevated CO(2) concentration on crop yields and, by extension, food security. However, in the comparison, no effort was made to differentiate enclosure study methodologies with respect to maintaining projected CO(2) concentration or to consider other climatic changes (e.g. warming) that could impact crop yields. In this review, we demonstrate that relative yield stimulations in response to future CO(2) concentrations obtained using a number of enclosure methodologies are quantitatively consistent with FACE results for three crops of global importance: rice (Oryza sativa), soybean (Glycine max) and wheat (Triticum aestivum). We suggest, that instead of focusing on methodological disparities per se, improved projections of future food supply could be achieved by better characterization of the biotic/abiotic uncertainties associated with projected changes in CO(2) and climate and incorporation of these uncertainties into current crop models.
1768923	The floating water fern Azolla microphylla Kaulfess was evaluated as a biocontrol agent against mosquitoes breeding in rice fields in Tamil Nadu, South India. Anopheles subpictus Grassi, Culex pseudovishnui Colless and Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles were the predominant species of mosquitoes, with peak densities of late instar larvae and pupae occurring during the second week after transplantation of rice seedlings of short-term (c. 80 days from transplantation to harvest) or medium-term (c. 95 days) varieties. Immature mosquito populations were reduced by mats of Azolla microphylla covering more than 80% of the water surface. However, since 80% coverage by Azolla was achieved only 13-14 days after rice transplantation, its usefulness for mosquito control was limited. Azolla may have a greater potential in an integrated control programme, or in areas where long-term varieties of rice are predominantly grown.
17689888	To come to a better understanding of the evolution and function of the SBP-box transcription factor family in plants, we identified, isolated and characterized 13 of its members from the moss Physcomitrella patens. For the majority of the moss SBP-box genes, clear orthologous relationships with family members of flowering plants could be established by phylogenetic analysis based on the conserved DNA-binding SBP-domain, as well as additional synapomorphic molecular characters. The P. patens SBP-box genes cluster in four separable groups. One of these consists exclusively of moss genes; the three others are shared with family members of Arabidopsis and rice. Besides the family defining DNA-binding SBP-domain, other features can be found conserved between moss and other plant SBP-domain proteins. An AHA-like motif conserved from the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii to flowering plants, was found able to promote transcription in a heterologous yeast system. The conservation of a functional microRNA response element in the mRNA of three of the moss SBP-box genes supports the idea of an ancient origin of microRNA dependent regulation of SBP-box gene family members. As our current knowledge concerning the roles of SBP-box genes in plant development is scarce and the model system P. patens allows targeted mutation, the material we isolated and characterized will be helpful to generate the mutant phenotypes necessary to further elucidate these roles.
17690836	The endophytic bacterial diversity in the roots of rice (Oryza sativa L.) growing in the agricultural experimental station in Hebei Province, China was analyzed by 16S rDNA cloning, amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), and sequence homology comparison. To effectively exclude the interference of chloroplast DNA and mitochondrial DNA of rice, a pair of bacterial PCR primers (799f-1492r) was selected to specifically amplify bacterial 16S rDNA sequences directly from rice root tissues. Among 192 positive clones in the 16S rDNA library of endophytes, 52 OTUs (Operational Taxonomic Units) were identified based on the similarity of the ARDRA banding profiles. Sequence analysis revealed diverse phyla of bacteria in the 16S rDNA library, which consisted of alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon subclasses of the Proteobacteria, Cytophaga/Flexibacter/Bacteroides (CFB) phylum, low G+C gram-positive bacteria, Deinococcus-Thermus, Acidobacteria, and archaea. The dominant group was Betaproteobacteria (27.08% of the total clones), and the most dominant genus was Stenotrophomonas. More than 14.58% of the total clones showed high similarity to uncultured bacteria, suggesting that nonculturable bacteria were detected in rice endophytic bacterial community. To our knowledge, this is the first report that archaea has been identified as endophytes associated with rice by the culture-independent approach. The results suggest that the diversity of endophytic bacteria is abundant in rice roots.
17690841	T-DNA-tagged rice plants were screened under cold- or salt-stress conditions to determine the genes involved in the molecular mechanism for their abiotic-stress response. Line 0-165-65 was identified as a salt-responsive line. The gene responsible for this GUS-positive phenotype was revealed by inverse PCR as OsGSK1 (Oryza sativa glycogen synthase kinase3-like gene 1), a member of the plant GSK3/SHAGGY-like protein kinase genes and an orthologue of the Arabidopsis brassinosteroid insensitive 2 (BIN2), AtSK21. Northern blot analysis showed that OsGSK1 was most highly detected in the developing panicles, suggesting that its expression is developmental stage specific. Knockout (KO) mutants of OsGSK1 showed enhanced tolerance to cold, heat, salt, and drought stresses when compared with non-transgenic segregants (NT). Overexpression of the full-length OsGSK1 led to a stunted growth phenotype similar to the one observed with the gain-of-function BIN/AtSK21 mutant. This suggests that OsGSK1 might be a functional rice orthologue that serves as a negative regulator of brassinosteroid (BR)-signaling. Therefore, we propose that stress-responsive OsGSK1 may have physiological roles in stress signal-transduction pathways and floral developmental processes.
17691231	To describe dietary habits in the Turks and Caicos Islands. Food frequency questionnaires were administered to female-household-heads of 144 households randomly selected from three islands' voter's lists (Grand Turk [n = 48], Providenciales [n = 46] and Middle Caicos [n = 50]). Data were collected on the distribution of (a) Households among Levels 0 - 7 of a Food Group Scale, developed using the Cornell Technique of Scaling Dichotomous Data, and based on number of households that consumed seven food groups (meat and legumes, bread/cereals, fruits, vegetables, starchy roots/tubers/fruits; dairy and beverages) weekly; (b) Foods among four categories (common core, island core, occasional or rare) also based on weekly frequency of consumption. Thirty per cent of households on Grand Turk and 37% on Providenciales were at level 7, the most varied and complex diets, compared to 3% for Middle Caicos, which exemplified the indigenous diet of local seafood, beans, and grits (corn) supplemented with imports eg rice and bread/flour Middle Caicos had substantially fewer island core foods ([n = 16] from four food groups) than did Grand Turk (n = 29) and Providenciales (n = 30), which represented the 7-food groups and included 15 (94%) of Middle Caicos' island core foods. Providenciales and Grand Turk had more varied and complex diets. Understanding how various islands supplement the indigenous/traditional diet is imperative to develop and evaluate (a) island-specific nutrition intervention eg culturally appropriate nutrition education messages (eg to increase iron consumption); and (b) future research protocols.
17691575	To observe the effect of acupoint application of Chinese herbal medicines on pathological changes of pulmonary tissue in asthma rats so as to explore its underlying mechanism. A total of 33 Wistar rats were randomized into normal control (n=6), model (n=9), dexamethasone (DX, n=9) and acupoint-application (A-A, n=9) groups. Asthma model was established by intraperitoneal injection of 10% ovalbumin(OVA, 1 mL)and forced inhalation of atomized 2% OVA (25 mL) for 40 min, once daily for 2 weeks. "Dazhui" (GV 14). "Pishu" (BL 20), "Feishu" (BL 13) and "Shenshu" (BL 23) were selected for external application of Chinese medicinal herbs (pricklyash peel, white mustard seeds, asarum herb, etc.) for rats of A-A group, and that of control drugs (ang-kak, black rice, ginger juice, etc) for rats of DX group. Infiltration degrees of eosinophils (Eos), lymphocytes (L) and macrophages (MO) in the pulmonary tissue were observed under microscope. IL-4 and IFN-gamma expression was displayed by using immunohistochemical method. In comparison with control group, the infiltration degrees of E(OS). L and Mphi increased significantly in model, DX and acupoint-application groups (P < 0.05, 0.01); while compared with model group, the infiltration of E(OS), L and Mphi in DX group, E(OS) in A-A group decreased significantly (P < 0.05, 0.01). No significant differences were found between DX and A-A groups in these 3 indexes (P > 0.05). Results of immunohisto chemical staining in the lung tissue indicated that compared with control group, IL-4 expression in model increased significantly (P < 0.01), IFN-gamma expression decreased considerably in model and DX group (P < 0.01); when compared with model group, IL-4 in both A-A group and DX group decreased significantly, and IFN-gamma expression in A-A group increased considerably (P < 0.05, 0.01). No significant differences were found between DX and A-A groups in IL-4 expression (P > 0.05). Acupoint application of Chinese herbal medicines can balance Thl/Th2 and effectively reduce the infiltration of eosinophils, which may contribute to its therapeutic effect in relieving asthma.
17691808	Rice bran is a rich natural source of vitamin E and gamma-oryzanol, which have been extensively studied and reported to possess important health-promoting properties. However, commercial rice bran is a mixture of rice bran and germ, and profiles of vitamin E and gamma-oryzanol components in these two different materials are less well-studied. In the current study, vitamin E and gamma-oryzanol components in rice bran and germ were analyzed by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry. The components were identified by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) with both positive- and negative-ion modes. Both deprotonated molecular ion [M - H](-) and protonated molecular ion [M + H](+) found as the base peaks in spectra of vitamin E components made ESI-MS a valuable analytic method in detecting vitamin E compounds, especially when they were at very low levels in samples. Ultraviolet absorption was used for quantification of vitamin E and gamma-oryzanol components. While the level of vitamin E in rice germ was 5 times greater than in rice bran, the level of gamma-oryzanol in rice germ was 5 times lower than in rice bran. Also, the major vitamin E component was alpha-tocopherol in rice germ and gamma-tocotrienol in rice bran. These data suggest that rice bran and germ have significantly different profiles of vitamin E and gamma-oryzanol components. The method enables rapid and direct on-line identification and quantification of the vitamin E and gamma-oryzanol components in rice bran and germ.
17692074	Microbes detoxify arsenate by reduction and efflux of arsenite. Plants have a high capacity to reduce arsenate, but arsenic efflux has not been reported. Tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) and rice (Oryza sativa) were grown hydroponically and supplied with 10 microm arsenate or arsenite, with or without phosphate, for 1-3 d. The chemical species of As in nutrient solutions, roots and xylem sap were monitored, roles of microbes and root exudates in As transformation were investigated and efflux of As species from tomato roots was determined. Arsenite remained stable in the nutrient solution, whereas arsenate was rapidly reduced to arsenite. Microbes and root exudates contributed little to the reduction of external arsenate. Arsenite was the predominant species in roots and xylem sap. Phosphate inhibited arsenate uptake and the appearance of arsenite in the nutrient solution, but the reduction was near complete in 24 h in both -P- and +P-treated tomato. Phosphate had a greater effect in rice than tomato. Efflux of both arsenite and arsenate was observed; the former was inhibited and the latter enhanced by the metabolic inhibitor carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. Tomato and rice roots rapidly reduce arsenate to arsenite, some of which is actively effluxed to the medium. The study reveals a new aspect of As metabolism in plants.
17693414	The adaptation of plants to natural environments depends on the adaptation of flowering-time control at the appropriate season to set seeds. Possible molecular mechanisms underlying this adaptation have recently been revealed. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a model long-day plant, control of floral transition by vernalization and long-day floral promotion pathways is a key regulator in adaptation to different regions. A floral repressor termed FLC and a floral promoter termed CONSTANS (CO), which control FT, a florigen gene, are key transcriptional regulators of these pathways. Recent analyses of haplotypes in accessions of A. thaliana revealed that FLC regulation by an activator termed FRIGIDA (FRI) had been a target for natural selection. By contrast, in rice (Oryza sativa), a model short-day plant, two independent floral pathways-Heading date 1 (Hd1, a CO orthologue)-dependent and Early heading date 1 (Ehd1)-dependent pathways-control Hd3a (an FT orthologue) and flowering time. Interestingly, there is an antagonistic action between Hd1 and Ehd1 in the control of flowering time under long-day conditions, because Hd1 represses floral transition whereas Ehd1 promotes it. A wild rice species, Oryza rufipogon, has common ancestry with cultivated rice and grows wild in the tropics, yet cultivated rice is grown even in the cold regions of northern latitudes. During domestication, the adaptation of O. sativa to northern regions by artificial selection may have become possible through interactions of the two pathways. These suggest that the domestication process of rice will provide novel insights into the adaptation of plants in evolution.
17693452	Cold temperatures cause pollen sterility and large reductions in grain yield in temperate rice growing regions of the world. Induction of pollen sterility by cold involves a disruption of sugar transport in anthers, caused by the cold-induced repression of the apoplastic sugar transport pathway in the tapetum. Here we demonstrate that the phytohormone ABA is a potential signal for cold-induced pollen sterility (CIPS). Cold treatment of the cold-sensitive cultivar Doongara resulted in increased anther ABA levels. Exogenous ABA treatment at the young microspore stage induced pollen sterility and affected cell wall invertase and monosaccharide transporter gene expression in a way similar to cold treatment. In the cold-tolerant cultivar R31, ABA levels were significantly lower under normal circumstances and remained low after cold treatment. The differences in endogenous ABA levels in Doongara and R31 correlated with differences in expression of the ABA biosynthetic genes encoding zeaxanthin epoxidase (OSZEP1) and 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (OSNCED2, OSNCED3) in anthers. The expression of three ABA-8-hydroxylase genes (ABA8OX1, 2 and 3) in R31 anthers was higher under control conditions and was regulated differently by cold compared with Doongara. Our results indicate that the cold tolerance phenotype of R31 is correlated with lower endogenous ABA levels and a different regulation of ABA metabolism.
17693693	Fatty acid distillates (FADs) produced during physical refining of vegetable oil contains large amount of free fatty acid. A mutant of Candida tropicalis (M20) obtained after several stages of UV mutation are utilized to produce dicarboxylic acids (DCAs) from the fatty acid distillates of rice bran, soybean, coconut, palm kernel and palm oil. Initially, fermentation study was carried out in shake flasks for 144 h. Products were isolated and identified by GLC analysis. Finally, fermentation was carried out in a 2 L jar fermenter, which yielded 62 g/L and 48 g/L of total dibasic acids from rice bran oil fatty acid distillate and coconut oil fatty acid distillate respectively. FADs can be effectively utilized to produce DCAs of various chain lengths by biooxidation process.
17694275	Forisomes are protein aggregates found uniquely in the sieve elements of Fabaceaen plants. Upon wounding they undergo a reversible, calcium-dependent conformational switch which enables them to act as cellular stopcocks. Forisomes begin to form in young sieve elements at an early stage of metaphloem differentiation. Genes encoding forisome components could therefore be useful as markers of early sieve element development. Here we present a comprehensive analysis of the developmental expression profile of for1, which encodes such a forisome component. The for1 gene is highly conserved among Fabaceaen species and appears to be unique to this phylogenetic lineage since no orthologous genes have been found in other plants, including Arabidopsis and rice. Even so, transgenic tobacco plants expressing reporter genes under the control of the for1 promoter display reporter activity exclusively in immature sieve elements. This suggests that the regulation of sieve element development is highly conserved even in plants where mature forisomes have not been detected. The promoter system could therefore provide a powerful tool for the detailed analysis of differentiation in metaphloem sieve elements in an unexpectedly broad range of plant species.
17695007	A 12-mo ecological study of the spatial-temporal distribution of immature stages of Anopheles species was conducted in Sukabumi District, West Java, Indonesia. The study characterized 1,600 sites from a contiguous coastal and hill zone (0-800-m elevation) of which 64% contained Anopheles larvae. Principal component and multiple logistic regression analyses identified ecological parameters associated with presence of nine [Anopheles aconitus Doenitz, Anopheles annularis Van de Wulp, Anopheles barbirostris Van der Wulp, Anopheles flavirostris (Ludlow), Anopheles insulaeflorum (Swellengrebel and Swellengrebel de Graaf), Anopheles kochi Doenitz, Anopheles maculatus Theobald, Anopheles sundaicus (Rodenwaldt), and Anopheles vagus Doenitz] of 15 Anopheles species collected. Combined data for all nine species showed increased Anopheles presence associated with wet season periods and higher elevation habitats exhibiting reduced tree canopy coverage, higher water temperatures, and shallower water depths. Habitat variables measured included topography (elevation), water conditions (temperature, pH, salinity depth, and velocity), habitat characteristics (substrate and canopy cover), density and type of aquatic vegetation coverage (riparian, floating, and emergent), and distance from nearest human habitation. Significant relationships were found for nine species when using all habitats in the analysis. Habitat characteristics for three species were refined. An. aconitus and An. barbirostris were associated with higher elevation rice, Oryza savita L., paddies with relatively shallow water depths, higher water temperatures, higher acidity and salinity concentrations, and a greater average distance from human habitation. An. vagus presence in rice paddies was associated with lower elevation fields, deeper and cooler water, less acidic and saline conditions, and habitats closer to human dwellings. Overall, the distribution of Anopheles species in Sukabumi was found to be nonrandom and predictable on the basis of habitat characteristics.
17696349	Formation of nearly monodiperse MnO nanocrystals by simple heating of Mn stearate in octadecene was studied systematically and quantitatively as a model for non-injection synthesis of nanocrystals. For controlling the shape of the nanocrystals, that is, rice, rods, peanuts, needles, and dots, either an activation reagent (ocadecanol) or an inhibitor (stearic acid) might be added prior to heating. The quantitative results of this typical non-injection system reveal that the formation of nearly monodisperse nanocrystals did not follow the well-known "focusing of size distribution" mechanism. A new growth mechanism, self-focusing enabled by inter-particle diffusion, is proposed. Different from the traditional "focusing of size distribution", self-focusing not only affects the growth process of the nanocrystals, but may also play a role in controlling nucleation. Because of the simplicity of the reaction system, it was possible to also identify the chemical reactions associated with the growth and ripening of MnO nanocrystals with a variety of shapes. Through a recycling reaction path, water was identified as a decisive component in determining the kinetics for both growth and ripening in this system, although the reaction occurred at around 300 degrees C.
17696501	Aromatic compounds such as toluene and xylene are major components of many fuels. Accurate kinetic mechanisms for the combustion of toluene are, however, incomplete, as they do not accurately model experimental results such as strain rates and ignition times and consistently underpredict conversion. Current kinetic mechanisms for toluene combustion neglect the reactions of the methylphenyl radicals, and we believe that this is responsible, in part, for the shortcomings of these models. We also demonstrate how methylphenyl radical formation is important in the combustion and pyrolysis of other alkyl-substituted aromatic compounds such as xylene and trimethylbenzene. We have studied the oxidation reactions of the methylphenyl radicals with O2 using computational ab initio and density functional theory methods. A detailed reaction submechanism is presented for the 2-methylphenyl radical + O2 system, with 16 intermediates and products. For each species, enthalpies of formation are calculated using the computational methods G3 and G3B3, with isodesmic work reactions used to minimize computational errors. Transition states are calculated at the G3B3 level, yielding high-pressure limit elementary rate constants as a function of temperature. For the barrierless methylphenyl + O2 and methylphenoxy + O association reactions, rate constants are determined from variational transition state theory. Multichannel, multifrequency quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (qRRK) theory, with master equation analysis for falloff, provides rate constants as a function of temperature and pressure from 800 to 2400 K and 1 x 10(-4) to 1 x 10(3) atm. Analysis of our results shows that the dominant pathways for reaction of the three isomeric methylphenyl radicals is formation of methyloxepinoxy radicals and subsequent ring opening to methyl-dioxo-hexadienyl radicals. The next most important reaction pathway involves formation of methylphenoxy radicals + O in a chain branching process. At lower temperatures, the formation of stabilized methylphenylperoxy radicals becomes significant. A further important reaction channel is available only to the 2-methylphenyl isomer, where 6-methylene-2,4-cyclohexadiene-1-one (ortho-quinone methide, o-QM) is produced via an intramolecular hydrogen transfer from the methyl group to the peroxy radical in 2-methylphenylperoxy, with subsequent loss of OH. The decomposition of o-QM to benzene + CO reveals a potentially important new pathway for the conversion of toluene to benzene during combustion. A number of the important products of toluene combustion proposed in this study are known to be precursors of polyaromatic hydrocarbons that are involved in soot formation. Reactions leading to the important unsaturated oxygenated intermediates identified in this study, and the further reactions of these intermediates, are not included in current aromatic oxidation mechanisms.
17696613	Here we report that the change from the red seeds of wild rice to the white seeds of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) resulted from the strong selective sweep of a single mutation, a frame-shift deletion within the Rc gene that is found in 97.9% of white rice varieties today. A second mutation, also within Rc, is present in less than 3% of white accessions surveyed. Haplotype analysis revealed that the predominant mutation originated in the japonica subspecies and crossed both geographic and sterility barriers to move into the indica subspecies. A little less than one Mb of japonica DNA hitchhiked with the rc allele into most indica varieties, suggesting that other linked domestication alleles may have been transferred from japonica to indica along with white pericarp color. Our finding provides evidence of active cultural exchange among ancient farmers over the course of rice domestication coupled with very strong, positive selection for a single white allele in both subspecies of O. sativa.
17697080	The Tapirap people of the Tapi'itwa tribe of Brazil produce several fermented foods and beverages, one of which is called 'cauim'. This beverage usually makes up the main staple food for adults and children. Several substrates are used in its production, including cassava, rice, corn, maize and peanuts. A fermentation using rice and cassava was conducted, and samples were collected at 4-h intervals for microbial analysis. The yeast population was low at the beginning of the fermentation and reached 6.9 x 10(7) CFU mL(-1) after 48 h. During the fermentation process common yeast species were identified by sequencing of the D1/D2 domain of the large-subunit (26S) rRNA gene. The predominant yeast species found was Candida tropicalis. Candida intermedia, Candida parapsilosis, Pichia guilliermondii, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Trichosporon asahii were also found in high numbers during the fermentation. Exophiala dermatidis, often associated with blastomycosis, was found in the mass before inoculation and during the initial stages of the fermentation. Examination of these indigenous fermented foods may provide clues as to how food production and preservation can be expanded and thereby contribute to improve nutrition in native tribes in the region.
17697381	Rice feeds much of the world, and possesses the simplest genome analyzed to date within the grass family, making it an economically relevant model system for other cereal crops. Although the rice genome is sequenced, validation and gap closing efforts require purely independent means for accurate finishing of sequence build data. To facilitate ongoing sequencing finishing and validation efforts, we have constructed a whole-genome SwaI optical restriction map of the rice genome. The physical map consists of 14 contigs, covering 12 chromosomes, with a total genome size of 382.17 Mb; this value is about 11% smaller than original estimates. 9 of the 14 optical map contigs are without gaps, covering chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 10, and 12 in their entirety - including centromeres and telomeres. Alignments between optical and in silico restriction maps constructed from IRGSP (International Rice Genome Sequencing Project) and TIGR (The Institute for Genomic Research) genome sequence sources are comprehensive and informative, evidenced by map coverage across virtually all published gaps, discovery of new ones, and characterization of sequence misassemblies; all totalling ~14 Mb. Furthermore, since optical maps are ordered restriction maps, identified discordances are pinpointed on a reliable physical scaffold providing an independent resource for closure of gaps and rectification of misassemblies. Analysis of sequence and optical mapping data effectively validates genome sequence assemblies constructed from large, repeat-rich genomes. Given this conclusion we envision new applications of such single molecule analysis that will merge advantages offered by high-resolution optical maps with inexpensive, but short sequence reads generated by emerging sequencing platforms. Lastly, map construction techniques presented here points the way to new types of comparative genome analysis that would focus on discernment of structural differences revealed by optical maps constructed from a broad range of rice subspecies and varieties.
17697785	Chitinases (EC 3.2.1.14) have been grouped into seven classes (class I-VII) on the basis of their structural properties. Chitinases expressed during plant-microbe interaction are involved in defense responses of host plant against pathogens. In the present investigation, chitinase gene from wheat has been subcloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL-21 (DE3). Molecular phylogeny analyses of wheat chitinase indicated that it belongs to an acidic form of class VII chitinase (glycosyl hydrolase family 19) and shows 77% identity with other wheat chitinase of class IV and low level identity to other plant chitinases. The three-dimensional structural model of wheat chitinase showed the presence of 10 alpha-helices, 3 beta-strands, 21 loop turns and the presence of 6 cysteine residues that are responsible for the formation of 3 disulphide bridges. The active site residues (Glu94 and Glu103) may be suggested for its antifungal activity. Expression of chitinase (33 kDa) was confirmed by SDS-PAGE and Western hybridization analyses. The yield of purified chitinase was 20 mg/L with chitinase activity of 1.9 U/mg. Purified chitinase exerted a broad-spectrum antifungal activity against Colletotrichum falcatum (red rot of sugarcane) Pestalotia theae (leaf spot of tea), Rhizoctonia solani (sheath blight of rice), Sarocladium oryzae (sheath rot of rice) Alternaria sp. (grain discoloration of rice) and Fusarium sp. (scab of rye). Due to its innate antifungal potential wheat chitinase can be used to enhance fungal-resistance in crop plants.
17698298	Starch branching enzymes (SBEs) play important roles in plant starch synthesis. Three orthologs encoding SBEs in rice, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Populus trichocarpa are described. Putative amino acid sequences of these three SBE genes show approximately 30% identity to those of SBEI and SBEII from plants such as maize, barley, and wheat. More interestingly, they share approximately 31% amino acid sequence identity with those of glycogen-branching enzymes from such animals as mouse, horse, and monkey. The three genes have similar genomic structures, but their structural features are quite different from those of genes of both SBEI and SBEII families in plants. Based on phylogenetic analysis and genomic structure comparison, it is proposed that the three SBE genes represent a new family of SBEs.
17699623	Brassinosteroids (BR) are essential growth hormones found throughout the plant kingdom. BR bind to the receptor kinase BRI1 on the cell surface to activate a signal transduction pathway that regulates nuclear gene expression and plant growth. To understand the downstream BR signaling mechanism in rice, we studied the function of OsBZR1 using reverse genetic approaches and identified OsBZR1-interacting proteins. Suppressing OsBZR1 expression by RNAi resulted in dwarfism, erect leaves, reduced BR sensitivity, and altered BR-responsive gene expression in transgenic rice plants, demonstrating an essential role of OsBZR1 in BR responses in rice. Moreover, a yeast two-hybrid screen identified 14-3-3 proteins as OsBZR1-interacting proteins. Mutation of a putative 14-3-3-binding site of OsBZR1 abolished its interaction with the 14-3-3 proteins in yeast and in vivo. Such mutant OsBZR1 proteins suppressed the phenotypes of the Arabidopsis bri1-5 mutant and showed an increased nuclear distribution compared with the wild-type protein, suggesting that 14-3-3 proteins directly inhibit OsBZR1 function at least in part by reducing its nuclear localization. These results demonstrate a conserved function of OsBZR1 and an important role of 14-3-3 proteins in brassinosteroid signal transduction in rice.
17701278	With the completion of the rice genome sequencing project, the next major challenge is the large-scale determination of gene function. As an important crop and a model organism, rice provides major insights into gene functions important for crop growth or production. Phenomics with detailed information about tagged populations provides a good tool for functional genomics analysis. By a T-DNA insertional mutagenesis approach, we have generated a rice mutant population containing 55,000 promoter trap and gene activation or knockout lines. Approximately 20,000 of these lines have known integration sites. The T0 and T1 plants were grown in net "houses" for two cropping seasons each year since 2003, with the mutant phenotypes recorded. Detailed data describing growth and development of these plants, in 11 categories and 65 subcategories, over the entire four-month growing season are available in a searchable database, along with the genetic segregation information and flanking sequence data. With the detailed data from more than 20,000 T1 lines and 12 plants per line, we estimated the mutation rates of the T1 population, as well the frequency of the dominant T0 mutants. The correlations among different mutation phenotypes are also calculated. Together, the information about mutant lines, their integration sites, and the phenotypes make this collection, the Taiwan Rice Insertion Mutants (TRIM), a good resource for rice phenomics study. Ten T2 seeds per line can be distributed to researchers upon request.
17701347	B-esterase (BChE: butyrylcholinesterase and CbE: carboxylesterase) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity were measured in the plasma of Chaunus schneideri collected in rice fields and surrounding environments and in a reference pristine forest. The chemical criterion based on in-vitro reactivation of BChE activity using pyridine-2-aldoxime methochloride (2-PAM) was also determined. Mean values of plasma BchE, CbE, and GST activity for samples from agricultural areas were different from those for samples from pristine forest. Plasma samples from the two agricultural areas showed positive reactivation of BChE activity after incubation with 2-PAM. Based on our experimental evidence we suggest B-esterases and gluthatione S-transferases can be used in field monitoring as biomarkers of exposure of wildlife to pesticides, because the analysis in non-destructive and is sensitive to anti-ChE agrochemicals. Chemical reactivation of BChE is also a complementary method for assessing the effects of pesticides on toads inhabiting rice fields. Further studies are urgently needed to investigate adverse effects of massive exposure to pesticides experienced by native populations of anurans.
1770191	In this paper, we review the effects of rice bran oil (RBO), an unconventional oil recently introduced onto the Indian market for human use. RBO contains oleic acid (38.4%), linoleic acid (34.4%), and linolenic acid (2.2%) as unsaturated fatty acids, and palmitic (21.5%) and stearic (2.9%) acids as saturated fatty acids. The unsaponifiable fraction (4.2%) has total tocopherols (81.3 mg%), gamma-oryzanol (1.6%), and squalene (320 mg%). Oryzanol is a mixture of ferulic acid esters of triterpene alcohols such as cycloartenol (CA) (106 mg%) and 24-methylene cycloartanol (494 mg%). Studies on experimental rats demonstrated a hypolipidemic effect of RBO. The unsaponifiable fraction of RBO lowers cholesterol levels. Feeding phytosterols, CA, and 24-methylene cycloartanol in amounts present in RBO to hypercholesterolemic rats for 8 weeks indicates that CA alone reduces cholesterol and triglyceride levels significantly. Endogenous sterol excretion increases in animals given CA. The accumulation of CA in the liver inhibits cholesterol esterase activity, which in turn leads to reduction in circulating cholesterol levels. CA is structurally similar to cholesterol and may compete with the binding sites of cholesterol and sequestrate cholesterol, which is metabolized to its derivatives. RBO, which is rich in tocopherols and tocotrienols, may improve oxidative stability. Tocotrienols inhibit HMG CoA reductase, resulting in hypocholesterolemia. The hypolipidemic effect of RBO has also been established in human subjects. Thus, RBO could be a suitable edible oil for patients with hyperlipidemia.
17702573	To efficiently utilize rice straw and lessen its disposal problem on the environment, a lactic acid bacteria community, SFC-2 was developed from natural fermentation products of rice straw by continuous enrichment with the MRS-S broth (MRS broth with sucrose), and used to accelerate the fermentation of air-dried straws. The SFC-2 could rapidly lower the pH of the broth and produce high levels of lactic acid. Using a combination of plate isolation, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and 16S rDNA sequencing, the microbial composition of the SFC-2 was classified into Lactobacillus, mainly comprised of L. fermentum, L. plantarum and L. paracacei. An evaluation of the fermentation effect of SFC-2 on rice straw showed that it lowered the pH and significantly (P<0.05) increased lactic acid concentration in the straw. Further analysis with DGGE indicated that L. plantarum, L. fermentum and L. paracasei were the dominant species during fermentation.
17702763	MicroRNAs have been found in various organisms and play essential roles in gene expression regulation of many critical cellular processes. Large-scale computational prediction of miRNAs has been conducted for many organisms using known genomic sequences; however, there has been no such effort for the thousands of known viral genomes. Some viruses utilize existing host cellular pathways for their own benefit. Furthermore, viruses are capable of encoding miRNAs and using them to repress host genes. Thus, identifying potential miRNAs in all viral genomes would be valuable to virologists who study virus-host interactions. Based on our previously reported hairpin secondary structure and feature selection filters, we have examined the 2266 available viral genome sequences for putative miRNA hairpins and identified 33 691 hairpin candidates in 1491 genomes. Evaluation of the system performance indicated that our discovery pipeline exhibited 84.4% sensitivity. We established an interface for users to query the predicted viral miRNA hairpins based on taxonomic classification, and a host target gene prediction service based on the RNAhybrid program and the 3'-UTR gene sequences of human, mouse, rat, zebrafish, rice and Arabidopsis. The viral miRNA prediction database (Vir-Mir) can be accessed via http://alk.ibms.sinica.edu.tw.
17703278	Soils that contain toxic amounts of minerals or are deficient in essential plant nutrients are widespread globally and seriously constrain rice production. New methods are necessary to incorporate the complex adaptive traits associated with tolerance of these abiotic stresses, while simultaneously retaining the high yield potential of rice varieties when conditions are favorable. Significant progress in the genetic characterization of stress response pathways and recent advances in genomics have provided powerful tools for in-depth dissection of tolerance mechanisms. Additionally, tolerance of most of these abiotic stresses in rice is controlled by a few QTLs with large effects despite the intricacy of the numerous traits involved. Genetic dissection of these QTLs and their incorporation into high-yielding varieties will significantly enhance and stabilize rice productivity in these problem soils. Current efforts at IRRI and in rice breeding programs worldwide are seeking to explore diverse germplasm collections and genetically dissect the causal mechanisms of tolerance to facilitate their use in breeding. This review focuses on salinity and P and Zn deficiency as the major problems encountered in rice soils, and examines current understanding of the mechanisms involved and efforts toward germplasm improvement.
17704024	A randomized double blind clinical trial was conducted to assess the efficacy of a special infant formula containing Lactobacillus rhamnosus LMG P-22799 (probiotic: 5 x 10(8) CFU/100mL), inulin (prebiotic: 0.15 g/100mL), dietary fiber (soy polysaccharides: 0.2 g/100mL) and increased amounts of zinc+iron (+0.4 and +0.6 mg/100mL, respectively) as active ingredients for the early dietary management of 58 Indonesian well-nourished male infants aged 3-12 months suffering from acute diarrhea with moderate dehydration. After adequate oral rehydration, the patients were randomly assigned to receive either a low lactose infant formula supplemented with added precooked rice (1.5 g/100mL) with the above active ingredients (study group) or a low lactose infant formula with added precooked rice without the above active ingredient supplement (control group). No antibiotic, anti-secretory drug or antiemetic was given at all. Both study and control groups showed similar outcomes for weight gain and stool weight. The duration of diarrhea was significantly shorter in the study group than in the control group (1.63 versus 2.45 days; p<0.05; for the study and control group respectively). No treatment failure or other side effects were observed during the course of the study. The present study supports the evidence for the efficacy of a special anti-diarrhea infant formula containing probiotic, prebiotic, fiber and iron+zinc after oral rehydration by shortening the duration of infantile diarrhea in developing countries. However, from the results of our study we cannot discern the individual contribution of the active ingredients and also not whether they may act independent from each other or in a synergistic way.
17704026	When an infant is brought home to the family, it is often a time of emotional, economic and physical stress due to the extra demands placed on parents. Household food security means "access at all times to enough and nutritionally appropriate food to provide the energy and nutrients needed to maintain an active and healthy life". Questions about food security were asked of 1376 Pacific Island mothers (as part of the Pacific Island Family Study) approximately six weeks after the birth of their baby. Due to lack of money food sometimes ran out in 39.8% of households and in a further 3.8% food often ran out. Variety of foods was limited by lack of money in 39.3%. Foods that were still bought when money was limited included bread (97%), milk (95%), meat and chicken (91%), vegetables and fruit (83%), rice or pasta (82%), breakfast cereals (69%), fish or shellfish (50%) and biscuits or chips (44%). Alcohol (1%), soft drinks (11%), ice cream (12%) and fruit juice (21%) were the least often bought. Energy density (MJ/kg) and nutrient-density of typical foods limited by lack of money were analysed. Rice, bread and fatty meats provided the most calories per dollar and fruit and vegetables the least. The best protein-value for money was from minced beef, chicken and tinned tuna and the most fibre-rich foods included baked beans and mixed vegetables. Food security is a major problem for Pacific families. The environment of food availability, choice and cost requires attention to help close the health gap.
17704215	The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea infects its host by forming a specialized infection structure, the appressorium, on the plant leaf. The enormous turgor pressure generated within the appressorium drives the emerging penetration peg forcefully through the plant cuticle. Hitherto, the involvement of cutinase(s) in this process has remained unproven. We identified a specific M. grisea cutinase, CUT2, whose expression is dramatically upregulated during appressorium maturation and penetration. The cut2 mutant has reduced extracellular cutin-degrading and Ser esterase activity, when grown on cutin as the sole carbon source, compared with the wild-type strain. The cut2 mutant strain is severely less pathogenic than the wild type or complemented cut2/CUT2 strain on rice (Oryza sativa) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). It displays reduced conidiation and anomalous germling morphology, forming multiple elongated germ tubes and aberrant appressoria on inductive surfaces. We show that Cut2 mediates the formation of the penetration peg but does not play a role in spore or appressorium adhesion, or in appressorial turgor generation. Morphological and pathogenicity defects in the cut2 mutant are fully restored with exogenous application of synthetic cutin monomers, cAMP, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, and diacylglycerol (DAG). We propose that Cut2 is an upstream activator of cAMP/protein kinase A and DAG/protein kinase C signaling pathways that direct appressorium formation and infectious growth in M. grisea. Cut2 is therefore required for surface sensing leading to correct germling differentiation, penetration, and full virulence in this model fungus.
17704235	HrpN (harpin) protein is critical to the virulence of the fire blight pathogen Erwinia amylovora in host plants like apple (Malus x domestica). Moreover, exogenous treatment of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), a nonhost plant, with partially purified HrpN enhances growth. To address the bases of the effects of HrpN in disease, we sought a HrpN-interacting protein(s) in apple, using a yeast two-hybrid assay. A single positive clone, designated HIPM (HrpN-interacting protein from Malus), was found. HIPM, a 6.5-kD protein, interacted with HrpN in yeast and in vitro. Deletion analysis showed that the N-terminal 198 of 403 amino acids of HrpN are required for interaction with HIPM. HIPM orthologs were found in Arabidopsis (AtHIPM) and rice (Oryza sativa; OsHIPM). HrpN also interacted with AtHIPM in yeast and in vitro. In silico analyses revealed that the three plant proteins contain putative signal peptides and putative transmembrane domains. We showed that both HIPM and AtHIPM have functional signal peptides, and green fluorescent protein-tagged HIPM and AtHIPM associated, in clusters, with plasma membranes. Both HIPM and AtHIPM are expressed constitutively; however, they are expressed more strongly in apple and Arabidopsis flowers than in leaves and stems. The size of AtHIPM knockout mutant plants of Arabidopsis was slightly larger than the wild-type plants. Interestingly, the knockout mutant did not exhibit enhanced plant growth in response to treatment with HrpN. Overexpression of AtHIPM conversely resulted in smaller plants. These results indicate that AtHIPM functions as a negative regulator of plant growth and mediates enhanced growth that results from treatment with HrpN.
17704538	China has been successful in breeding hybrid rice strains, but is now facing challenges to develop new hybrids with high-yielding potential, better grain quality, and tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. This paper reviews the most significant advances in hybrid rice breeding in China, and presents a recent study on fine-mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for yield traits. By exploiting new types of male sterility, hybrid rice production in China has become more diversified. The use of inter-subspecies crosses has made an additional contribution to broadening the genetic diversity of hybrid rice and played an important role in the breeding of super rice hybrids in China. With the development and application of indica-inclined and japonica-inclined parental lines, new rice hybrids with super high-yielding potential have been developed and are being grown on a large scale. DNA markers for subspecies differentiation have been identified and applied, and marker-assisted selection performed for the development of restorer lines carrying disease resistance genes. The genetic basis of heterosis in highly heterotic hybrids has been studied, but data from these studies are insufficient to draw sound conclusions. In a QTL study using stepwise residual heterozygous lines, two linked intervals harbouring QTLs for yield traits were resolved, one of which was delimited to a 125-kb region. Advances in rice genomic research have shed new light on the genetic study and germplasm utilization in rice. Molecular marker-assisted selection is a powerful tool to increase breeding efficiency, but much work remains to be done before this technique can be extended from major genes to QTLs.
17704853	Lime and humic acid application can play an important role in the availability of zinc in paddy soils. We conducted laboratory incubation experiments on a rice growing soil (Alfisol) to determine the effect of lime, humic acid and different moisture regimes on the availability of Zn. Addition of half doses of liming material (powdered lime stone) recorded highest values of DTPA-Zn followed by no lime and 100% of lime requirement throughout the incubation period. With the progress of incubation, DTPA-Zn increased slightly during the first week and then decreased thereafter. The highest DTPA-extractable Zn content of 2.85 mg/kg was found in the treatment Zn10 L1/2 at 7 days of incubation, showing 17.3 % increase in DTPA-Zn content over its corresponding treatment of Zn alone (Zn10L0). The DTPA-Zn concentration increased with the application of humic acid compared with no humic acid throughout 35 days of the incubation period and the peak value obtained was 3.12 mg/kg in the treatment Zn10 HA2 at 14 days after incubation, showing 50 % increase in Zn content over its corresponding treatment of Zn alone (Zn10HA0). The application of 0.2% humic acid compared with 0.1% resulted in greater increase in DTPA-Zn concentration in soil application. During the 35 days of incubation, highest values of DTPA-Zn were recorded in soil maintained at saturated compared to water logged conditions. However, under alternate wetting and drying condition the DTPA-Zn content gradually decreased up to 21 days and thereafter increased slowly.
17705253	A rapid, specific and sensitive multiresidue method based on the Quick Easy Cheap Effective Rugged and Safe (QuEChERS) sample preparation method and gas chromatography with mass spectrometric detection by selected ion monitoring (GC/MS-SIM) has been developed for the routine analysis of 109 pesticides in rice. The method uses one quantification ion and two identification ions. Temperature control during sample preparation helps improve the recovery of thermally labile pesticides such as captan. The method was validated by the analysis of samples spiked at 0.025-0.150 mg/kg in rice matrix. The recoveries of all pesticides were between 80% and 115% with a relative standard deviation of less than 15%. The limit of quantitation (LOQ) for most compounds met the maximum residue limits (MRLs) for pesticides in rice in Korea.
17705604	A potential energy surface for trans-formanilide (TFA)-H2O is calculated and applied to study energy flow in the complex as well as the kinetics of water shuttling between hydrogen bonding sites on TFA. In addition to the previously identified H2O-TFA(C[Double Bond]O) and H2O-TFA(NH) minima, with the water monomer bound to the C[Double Bond]O and NH groups, respectively, the new surface reveals a second local minimum with the water bound to the C[Double Bond]O group, and which lies energetically 310 cm(-1) above the previously identified H2O-TFA(C[Double Bond]O) global minimum. On this surface, the energy barrier for water shuttling from H2O-TFA(C[Double Bond]O) global minimum to H2O-TFA(N-H) is 984 cm(-1), consistent with the experimental bounds of 796 and 988 cm(-1) [J. R. Clarkson et al. Science 307, 1443 (2005)]. The ergodicity threshold of TFA is calculated to be 1450 cm(-1); for the TFA-H2O complex, the coupling to the water molecule is found to lower the ergodicity threshold to below the isomerization barrier. Energy transfer between the activated complex and the vibrational modes of TFA is calculated to be sufficiently rapid that the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory does not overestimate the rate of water shuttling. The possibility that the rate constant for water shuttling is higher than the RRKM theory estimate is discussed in light of the relatively high energy of the ergodicity threshold calculated for TFA.
17705786	GH5BG, the cDNA for a stress-induced GH5 (glycosyl hydrolase family 5) beta-glucosidase, was cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings. The GH5BG cDNA encodes a 510-amino-acid precursor protein that comprises 19 amino acids of prepeptide and 491 amino acids of mature protein. The protein was predicted to be extracellular. The mature protein is a member of a plant-specific subgroup of the GH5 exoglucanase subfamily that contains two major domains, a beta-1,3-exoglucanase-like domain and a fascin-like domain that is not commonly found in plant enzymes. The GH5BG mRNA is highly expressed in the shoot during germination and in leaf sheaths of mature plants. The GH5BG was up-regulated in response to salt stress, submergence stress, methyl jasmonate and abscisic acid in rice seedlings. A GUS (glucuronidase) reporter tagged at the C-terminus of GH5BG was found to be secreted to the apoplast when expressed in onion (Allium cepa) cells. A thioredoxin fusion protein produced from the GH5BG cDNA in Escherichia coli hydrolysed various pNP (p-nitrophenyl) glycosides, including beta-D-glucoside, alpha-L-arabinoside, beta-D-fucoside, beta-D-galactoside, beta-D-xyloside and beta-D-cellobioside, as well as beta-(1,4)-linked glucose oligosaccharides and beta-(1,3)-linked disaccharide (laminaribiose). The catalytic efficiency (kcat/K(m)) for hydrolysis of beta-(1,4)-linked oligosaccharides by the enzyme remained constant as the DP (degree of polymerization) increased from 3 to 5. This substrate specificity is significantly different from fungal GH5 exoglucanases, such as the exo-beta-(1,3)-glucanase of the yeast Candida albicans, which may correlate with a marked reduction in a loop that makes up the active-site wall in the Candida enzyme.
17706027	A recent study has suggested that hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy administered within 3 hrs following hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) may alleviate brain white matter damage (WMD) in neonatal rats. However it is unclear whether a delayed HBO therapy (more than 3 hrs following HIBD) has neuroprotective effects in neonatal rats. This study aimed to explore the effect of HBO therapy administered at different time points following HIBD on WMD in neonatal rats. The HIBD model was prepared according to the Rice-Vannucci procedure in 7-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats. HBO therapy was administered at 3, 6, 12, 24 or 72 hrs after HIBD, once daily for consecutive 7 days. T-maze test, the foot-fault test and the radial arm maze test were performed after 14 days of HIBD. Myelin basic protein (MBP) in the callositas and corpora striata was examined by immunohistochemical method 28 days after HIBD. The rats receiving HBO therapy at 3, 6 and 12 hrs after HIBD performed significantly better in the T-maze test, the radial arm maze test and the foot-fault test than the untreated HIBD rats. There were no significant differences in the behavioral test results between the HBO-treated groups administered HBO at 24 and 72 hrs after HIBD and the untreated HIBD group. The MBP expression in the HBO-treated groups treated within 12 hrs after HIBD was significantly higher than that in the untreated HIBD group (P < 0.05). When the HBO therapeutic window was delayed to 24 hrs after HIBD, there were no significant differences in the MBP expression between the HBO-treated and the untreated HIBD groups. HBO therapy administered within 12 hrs following HIBD can alleviate brain WMD in neonatal rats, but the efficacy of HBO therapy administered 24 hrs after HIBD does not appear to be satisfactory.
17706328	Laboratory tests of fipronil and its degradation products have revealed acute lethal toxicity at very low concentrations (LC50) of <0.5 microg/L to selected aquatic macroinvertebrates. In streams draining basins with intensive rice cultivation in southwestern Louisiana, USA, concentrations of fipronil compounds were an order of magnitude larger than the LC50. The abundance (rho=-0.64; p=0.015) and taxa richness (r2=0.515, p<0.005) of macroinvertebrate communities declined significantly with increases in concentrations of fipronil compounds and rice-cultivation land-use intensity. Macroinvertebrate community tolerance scores increased linearly (r2=0.442, p<0.005) with increases in the percentage of rice cultivation in the basins, indicating increasingly degraded stream conditions. Similarly, macroinvertebrate community-tolerance scores increased rapidly as fipronil concentrations approached about 1 microg/L. Pesticide toxicity index determinations indicated that aquatic macroinvertebrates respond to a gradient of fipronil compounds in water although stream size and habitat cannot be ruled out as contributing influences.
17706420	A continuous fixed bed study was carried out by using rice husk as a biosorbent for the removal of congo red (CR) from aqueous solution. The effects of important factors, such as the value of initial pH, existing salt, the flow rate, the influent concentration of CR and bed depth, were studied. Data confirmed that the breakthrough curves were dependent on flow rate, initial dye concentration and bed depth. Thomas, Adams-Bohart, and Yoon-Nelson models were applied to experimental data to predict the breakthrough curves using non-linear regression and to determine the characteristic parameters of the column useful for process design, while bed depth/service time analysis (BDST) model was used to express the effect of bed depth on breakthrough curves. The results showed that Thomas model was found suitable for the normal description of breakthrough curve at the experimental condition, while Adams-Bohart model was only for a initial part of dynamic behavior of the rice husk column. The data were in good agreement with BDST model. It was concluded that the rice husk column can remove CR from solution.
17706820	The knowledge of toxigenic profiles of fungal plant pathogens is of extreme importance for evaluating the potential toxicity of infected plant products. Ninety-six fungal isolates belonging to 28 species in the Gibberella fujikuroi complex were studied for the production of beauvericin, enniatins and fusaproliferin in rice cultures. Toxin production ranged from 5 to 3000 microg/g for beauvericin, 2 to 131 microg/g for enniatins, and 4 to 440 microg/g for fusaproliferin. Beauvericin was the most common metabolite produced by 16 species followed by fusaproliferin with 11 species and enniatins with 4 species. The production of beauvericin by F. bulbicola, F. denticulatum, F. lactis, F. phyllophilum, F. pseudocircinatum, and F. succisae and fusaproliferin by F. antophilum, F. begoniae, F. bulbicola, F. circinatum, F. concentricum, F. succisae, and F. udum is reported here for the first time. Brine shrimp larvae were most sensitive to culture extracts of F. acutatum (up to 94+/-3%), F. concentricum (up to 99+/-1%), F. denticuatum (up to 100%) and F. sacchari (up to 100%). Toxicity towards brine shrimp was significantly correlated with the beauvericin content of the fungal extracts with few exceptions. These data indicate that beauvericin and fusaproliferin are common metabolites of species of the G. fujikuroi complex and pose a risk for a possible toxin accumulation in their respective host plant products. However, data from the brine shrimp bioassay showed that further toxic metabolites within this complex need to be characterized.
17707217	The floral-organ-number mutant fon(t) was firstly discovered in the progeny of a cross between a diploid (Chunjiang 683) and a haploid (SARIV-620-A) rice cultivar. The fon(t) mutant showed normal vegetative development and produced normal inflorescence structures. Difference between the mutant and the wild type was observed when the stamen primordia began to form. The mature flowers of fon(t) mutant showed open-hull phenotypes, which resulted in the exposure of stamens and stigmas. Normally, a single fon(t) floret consisted of six to nine stamens and one or two pistils. In addition, stamen/pistil-like structures and bulged tissues near ovaries were also observed in a few fon(t) florets. But homeotic transformation of lodicules into palea/lemma-like organs was observed almost in all the open-hull florets. The phenotypes of fon(t) flowers also suggested that fon(t) gene might affect flower organ identity in the inner whorls. Genetic analysis showed that the fon(t) mutant was controlled by a single recessive gene.
17707684	This review describes current advances in understanding the biology of plant infection by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. Development of the specialized infection structure, the appressorium, in M. grisea has recently been shown to be controlled by cell cycle progression and initiation of autophagic, programmed cell death in the fungal spore. Re-cycling of the contents of the fungal spore and peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation are therefore important processes for appressorium function. Following entry to the host plant, new evidence suggests that M. grisea grows biotrophically within rice cells, bounded by the plant plasmalemma, and the fungus moves from cell-to-cell by means of plasmodesmata. Biotrophic proliferation of the fungus is likely to require secretion of effector proteins and suppression of host defences. Consistent with this, a component of the polarized exocytosis machinery of M. grisea is necessary for pathogenicity and also for induction of host defences in an incompatible interaction. Large-scale insertional mutagenesis is now allowing the rapid analysis of gene function in M. grisea, heralding a new approach to the study of this important fungal pathogen.
17708759	Various methods have been developed to explore inter-genomic relationships among plant species. Here, we present a sequence similarity analysis based upon comparison of transcript-assembly and methylation-filtered databases from five plant species and physically anchored rice coding sequences. A comparison of the frequency of sequence alignments, determined by MegaBLAST, between rice coding sequences in TIGR pseudomolecules and annotations vs 4.0 and comprehensive transcript-assembly and methylation-filtered databases from Lolium perenne (ryegrass), Zea mays (maize), Hordeum vulgare (barley), Glycine max (soybean) and Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) was undertaken. Each rice pseudomolecule was divided into 10 segments, each containing 10% of the functionally annotated, expressed genes. This indicated a correlation between relative segment position in the rice genome and numbers of alignments with all the queried monocot and dicot plant databases. Colour-coded moving windows of 100 functionally annotated, expressed genes along each pseudomolecule were used to generate 'heat-maps'. These revealed consistent intra- and inter-pseudomolecule variation in the relative concentrations of significant alignments with the tested plant databases. Analysis of the annotations and derived putative expression patterns of rice genes from 'hot-spots' and 'cold-spots' within the heat maps indicated possible functional differences. A similar comparison relating to ancestral duplications of the rice genome indicated that duplications were often associated with 'hot-spots'. Physical positions of expressed genes in the rice genome are correlated with the degree of conservation of similar sequences in the transcriptomes of other plant species. This relative conservation is associated with the distribution of different sized gene families and segmentally duplicated loci and may have functional and evolutionary implications.
17709752	Mutants that retain greenness of leaves during senescence are known as "stay-green" mutants. The most famous stay-green mutant is Mendel's green cotyledon pea, one of the mutants used in determining the law of genetics. Pea plants homozygous for this recessive mutation (known as i at present) retain greenness of the cotyledon during seed maturation and of leaves during senescence. We found tight linkage between the I locus and stay-green gene originally found in rice, SGR. Molecular analysis of three i alleles including one with no SGR expression confirmed that the I gene encodes SGR in pea. Functional analysis of sgr mutants in pea and rice further revealed that leaf functionality is lowered despite a high chlorophyll a (Chl a) and chlorophyll b (Chl b) content in the late stage of senescence, suggesting that SGR is primarily involved in Chl degradation. Consistent with this observation, a wide range of Chl-protein complexes, but not the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) large subunit, were shown to be more stable in sgr than wild-type plants. The expression of OsCHL and NYC1, which encode the first enzymes in the degrading pathways of Chl a and Chl b, respectively, was not affected by sgr in rice. The results suggest that SGR might be involved in activation of the Chl-degrading pathway during leaf senescence through translational or posttranslational regulation of Chl-degrading enzymes.
17710188	We explored the use of the European Remote Sensing Satellite 2 Synthetic Aperture Radar (ERS-2 SAR) to trace the development of rice plants in an irrigated area near Niono, Mali and relate that to the density of anopheline mosquitoes, especially An. gambiae. This is important because such mosquitoes are the major vectors of malaria in sub-Saharan Africa, and their development is often coupled to the cycle of rice development. We collected larval samples, mapped rice fields using GPS and recorded rice growth stages simultaneously with eight ERS-2 SAR acquisitions. We were able to discriminate among rice growth stages using ERS-2 SAR backscatter data, especially among the early stages of rice growth, which produce the largest numbers of larvae. We could also distinguish between basins that produced high and low numbers of anophelines within the stage of peak production. After the peak, larval numbers dropped as rice plants grew taller and thicker, reducing the amount of light reaching the water surface. ERS-2 SAR backscatter increased concomitantly. Our data support the belief that ERS-2 SAR data may be helpful for mapping the spatial patterns of rice growth, distinguishing different agricultural practices, and monitoring the abundance of vectors in nearby villages.
17710332	Rhopalosiphum rufiabdominalis (Sasaki) is an insect of world-wide distribution that damages irrigated rice. From September, 2004 to February, 2005, nymphs and adults of this aphid were collected in several host weeds of rice farms in Alegrete, Quara and Uruguaiana, located in Western of State of Rio Grande do Sul, and Restinga Seca, in Central region of this State, Brazil. The insect was found in the root of Andropogon bicornis (West Indian foxtail), Echinochloa colona (jungle rice), Oryza sativa (volunteer rice and red-rice), Paspalum sp. (paspalum) and Soliva pterosperma (lawn burweed).
17710555	Glutathione reductase (GR) plays an important role in the response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. We studied the expression patterns and enzyme activities of GR in graminaceous plants under Fe-sufficient and Fe-deficient conditions by isolating cDNA clones for chloroplastic GR (HvGR1) and cytosolic GR (HvGR2) from barley. We found that the sequences of GR1 and GR2 were highly conserved in graminaceous plants. Based on their nucleotide sequences, HvGR1 and HvGR2 were predicted to encode polypeptides of 550 and 497 amino acids, respectively. Both proteins showed in vitro GR activity, and the specific activity for HvGR1 was 3-fold that of HvGR2. Northern blot analyses were performed to examine the expression patterns of GR1 and GR2 in rice (Os), wheat (Ta), barley (Hv), and maize (Zm). HvGR1, HvGR2, and TaGR2 were upregulated in response to Fe-deficiency. Moreover, HvGR1 and TaGR1 were mainly expressed in shoot tissues, whereas HvGR2 and TaGR2 were primarily observed in root tissues. The GR activity increased in roots of barley, wheat, and maize and shoot tissues of rice, barley, and maize in response to Fe-deficiency. Furthermore, it appeared that GR was not post-transcriptionally regulated, at least in rice, wheat, and barley. These results suggest that GR may play a role in the Fe-deficiency response in graminaceous plants.
17710559	The ability to target marker proteins to specific subcellular compartments is a powerful research tool to study the structure and development of organelles. Here transit sequences from nuclear-encoded, plastid proteins, namely rice FtsZ, maize non-photosynthetic ferredoxin III (FdIII) and the small subunit of RubisCO were used to target a modified synthetic GFP (S65G, S72A) to plastids. The localisations of the fusion proteins expressed in transgenic wheat plants and under the control of the rice actin promoter were compared to an untargeted GFP control. GFP fluorescence was localised to non-green plastids in pollen, roots and seed endosperm and detected in isolated leaf chloroplasts using a GFP-specific antibody. Transit peptides appeared to influence the relative fluorescence intensities of plastids in different tissues. This is consistent with differential targeting and/or turnover of GFP fusion proteins in different plastid types. Replacement of GFP sequences with alternative coding regions enables immediate applications of our vectors for academic research and commercial applications.
17710590	To provide, for the first time, the calculated nutritional composition of 32 composite dishes commonly consumed in Barbados to enable dietary intake to be calculated from a Quantitative Food Frequency Questionnaire developed specifically for this population to determine associations between diet and risk of prostate and breast cancer. Weighed recipes were collected in up to six different households for each of the 32 composite dishes. The average nutritional composition for these composite dishes was calculated using the US Department of Agriculture National Nutrient Database. One hundred and fifty-two weighed recipes were collected for 32 composite dishes: five were fish based, two were ground beef dishes, two were chicken based, two were offal based, two were lamb dishes, one was pork based, three were rice based, three were commonly consumed home-made drinks, and the remaining were miscellaneous items. A total of 152 weighed recipes were collected and we provide, for the first time, nutritional composition data for 32 commonly consumed food and drink items in Barbados. Such data are essential for assessing nutrient intake and determining associations between diet and prostate and breast cancer in the Barbados National Cancer Study.
17710654	The presence of isogenes encoding V-ATPase subunits seems to be a characteristic for plants. Twenty-eight genes encode for the 13 different subunits in Arabidopsis thaliana, 23 genes each are known in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and can be identified in rice (Oryza sativa), respectively. In Arabidopsis the four subunits VHA-B, -E, -G and -a are encoded by three isogenes each. The transcript levels of these subunits were analysed by in silico evaluation of transcript pattern derived from the NASC-array database and exemplarily confirmed by semiquantitative RT-PCR. A tissue specifity was observed for the isoforms of VHA-E and VHA-G, whereas expression of VHA-a isoforms appeared independent of the tissue. Inflicting environmental stresses upon plants resulted in differentiated expression patterns of VHA-isoforms. Whereas salinity had minor effect on the expression of V-ATPase genes in A. thaliana, heat and drought stress led to alterations in transcript amount and preference of isoforms. Correlation analysis identified two clusters of isoforms, which were co-regulated on the transcript level.
17711001	Verification of a diffuse pollution model involves comparing results actually observed with those predicted by precise model inputs. Acquisition of precise model inputs is, however, problematic. In particular, when the target catchment is large and substantial estimation uncertainty exists, not only model verification but also prediction is difficult. Therefore, in this study, rice-farming data were collected for all paddy fields from all farmers in a catchment and pesticide adsorption and degradation rates in paddy field soil samples were measured to obtain precise model inputs. The model inputs successfully verified the model's capability to predict pesticide concentrations in river water. Sensitivity analyses of the model inputs elucidated the processes significantly affecting pesticide runoff from rice farms. Pesticide adsorption and degradation rates of the soil did not significantly affect pesticide concentrations, although pesticide discharge to river water accounted for less than 50% of the total quantity of pesticide applied to fields, possibly owing to pesticide adsorption and degradation. The timing of increases in pesticide concentrations in river water was affected mostly by the farming schedule, including the time of pesticide application and irrigation, and secondarily by rainfall events.
17711004	Runoff heavy metals from farmland were examined using the field data for the summer of 2005. The observation farmland is located on lowland where the irrigation water was contaminated with the drained water from the upstream farmlands. The area of the farmland is 11.2 ha, of which 6.0 ha and 4.5 ha have been used for rice paddy fields and soybean cultivation, respectively. During the observation, heavy metal concentrations at the downstream end were usually found to be higher than those in the irrigation water. That is, the heavy metal concentrations increased due to the passage of the water through the farmland. This increase in the heavy metal concentrations is not equal to the discharge of the heavy metal because the evaporation on the surface of the paddy field and the absorption by plants makes the surface water volume small. The discharged load from the farmland generally indicates the gross surface load from the farmland. When the effects of circulation irrigation on the heavy metal concentrations are estimated, the discharged load from the farmland should be calculated as the net surface load. When the runoff heavy metals from the circulation irrigation farmland are estimated, it is important to consider the inflowing heavy metals with irrigation water. All the heavy metal types observed in this study were discharged from the farmland. The net surface loads of Cr, Fe, Cd, and Pb were 371 microg m(-2) day(-1), 14.9 mg m(-2) day(-1), 0.26 microg m(-2) day(-1), and 3.3 microm(-2) day(-1), respectively.
17711006	The soprtion behaviour of a pre-emergent herbicide, oxadiazon (5-tert-butyl-3-(2,4-dichloro-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2 (3H)-one) was investigated in tropical rice soils using a batch equilibrium method. There is no information available on the fate of oxadiazon in Bangladeshi soils; Bangladesh rice soil is a unique environment. The experiment was performed using radiolabelled (14C) oxadiazon. The sorption and desorption isotherm of oxadiazon was described using the Freundlich equation. L-type sorption isotherms were observed. The correlation coefficient (r2) was 0.995 to 0.997 and the linearity of the slope was in the range 0.96-1.07. Sorption of oxadiazon was related to organic carbon. Sorption of oxadiazon by soil was a rapid process; sorption kinetics indicated that most of the sorption occurred within two hours. Changes in sorption of oxadiazon by soils was investigated by repeated application. Sorption after the first cycle was in the range 81-92% whereas sorption capacity decreased in the following cycles.
17711007	The Hydrological Simulation Program-FORTRAN (HSPF) is a comprehensive model that was developed to simulate many processes related to water flow and quality in watersheds of almost any size and complexity. Paddy rice fields often dominate extensive portions of the landscape in the Asian monsoon region. The hydrological and environmental conditions of paddy fields differ somewhat from those of other land uses, and HSPF may not adequately simulate watersheds in paddy farming regions. HSPF was previously modified to HSPF-Paddy; here, we examined the applicability of the modified model. The model was applied to simulate the water flow and quality of the Saemangeum watershed (2523 km2) in Korea, where paddy rice fields comprise about one-third of the total watershed area. Long-term monitoring data (5 years for water flow, 10 years for water quality) were used in the calibration and verification processes. Model performance was in the range of "very good" and "good" based on model efficiency (R2) and percent difference. The accuracy of the daily simulation was lower than that of monthly simulation for water flow. The water-quality simulation results were encouraging for this sizable watershed with mixed land uses; HSPF-Paddy proved adequate, and its application is recommended to simulate watershed processes in paddy farming regions.
17711327	Two global approaches were applied to develop an inventory of differentially expressed proteins and genes in rice (cv. Nipponbare) seedling grown on Murashige and Skoog medium with and without jasmonic acid (JA). JA significantly reduced the growth of shoot, root, leaf, and leaf sheath depending on JA concentration (1, 2, 5, 10, 25, and 50 microM) as compared with control. Almost 50% growth inhibition of seedling was observed with 5 microM JA. Shoots and roots of seedlings grown on 5 microM JA for 7 days were then used for proteomics and transcriptomics analyses. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed 66 and 68 differentially expressed protein spots in shoot and root, respectively, compared to their respective controls. Tandem mass spectrometry analysis of these proteins identified 52 (shoot) and 56 (root) nonredundant proteins, belonging to 10 functional categories. Proteins involved in photosynthesis (44%), cellular respiratory (11%), and protein modification and chaperone (11%) were highly represented in shoot, whereas antioxidant system (18%), cellular respiratory (17%), and defense-related proteins (15%) were highly represented in root. Transcriptomics analysis of shoot and root identified 107 and 325 induced genes and 34 and 213 suppressed genes in shoot and root, respectively. Except of unknown genes with over 57% of the total, most genes encode for proteins involved in secondary metabolism, energy production, protein modification and chaperone, transporters, and cytochrome P450. These identified proteins and genes have been discussed with respect to the JA-induced phenotype providing a new insight into the role of JA in rice seedling growth and development. phytohormone * inhibitory concentration * growth * gel-based approach * mass spectrometry * DNA microarray.
17711412	Plants challenged by limited phosphorus undergo dramatic morphological and architectural changes in their root systems in order to increase their absorptive surface area. In this paper, it is shown that phosphorus deficiency results in increased expression of the type I H+-pyrophosphatase AVP1 (AVP, Arabidopsis vacuolar pyrophosphatase), subsequent increased P-type adenosine triphosphatase (P-ATPase)-mediated rhizosphere acidification and root proliferation. Molecular genetic manipulation of AVP1 expression in Arabidopsis, tomato and rice results in plants that outperform controls when challenged with limited phosphorus. However, AVP1 over-expression and the resulting rhizosphere acidification do not result in increased sensitivity to AlPO4, apparently because of the enhancement of potassium uptake and the release of organic acids. Thus, the over-expression of type I H+-pyrophosphatases appears to be a generally applicable technology to help alleviate agricultural losses in low-phosphorus tropical/subtropical soils and to reduce phosphorus runoff pollution of aquatic and marine environments resulting from fertilizer application.
17711459	Fusarium graminearum was engineered for expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein gene (egfp) as a reporter regulated in a manner similar to Tri5, a key pathway gene in trichothecene biosynthesis. Using the transgenic fungus, it was found that the reporter gene was induced to express in aerial hyphae developed on trichothecene noninducing medium YG solidified by agar. Unexpectedly, the transcriptional activation of egfp was markedly suppressed by adding NaCl that does not significantly affect fungal growth. As suggested by these findings, wild-type F. graminearum that formed aerial hyphae on YG agar plates produced trichothecenes and the production was effectively suppressed by adding 1% NaCl to the agar. To evaluate the effects of abiotic stress on the expression of trichothecene biosynthesis (Tri) genes, a sensitive plate assay was established using GYEP medium (which very weakly induces trichothecene production) solidified with gellan gum. Using this assay, triazole fungicides were shown to cause transcriptional activation of egfp at sublethal concentrations. Indeed, trichothecene production significantly increased when F. graminearum was grown in rice medium (which moderately induces trichothecene) amended with low doses of tebuconazole. The real-time monitoring system described here may help predict the risks of trichothecene contamination by the fungus under various environmental conditions.
17712945	To analyze the phytosterol content in plant food commonly consumed in China, and to estimate the intake of phytosterols in Chinese people. More than 160 types of plant food in 7 kinds were chosen as samples. The contents of beta-sitosterol, campesterol, stigmasterol, beta-sitostanol, campestanol were analyzed by GC methods and the total phytosterols were calculated. The intake of phytosteols in Chinese people was estimated using the data of "Survey on the Status of Nutrition and Health of the Chinese People" in 2002. The contents of phytosterols in edible oils, nuts, and soybeans were higher than those in other plant food. In cereals, phytosterol contents of wheat flour were much higher than those of rice, the refinements of cereals may decrease the phytosterol contents. The phytosterol contents in vegetables and fruits were lower. The total intake of phytosterols in Chinese people was estimated to be 322.41mg/day, in which 40% may be of edible oil origin and 40% may be of cereal origin. The results indicated that in the current dietary pattern, increase the intake of wheat, soybean, vegetable and fruit would enhance the phytosterol intake in Chinese.
17712949	To explore the effects of different feeds, including rice, flour and the compound coarse grain on the disordered lipid metabolism in rats. 40 male SD rats were divided into 4 groups, including the negative control group, the hyperlipemic control group, the rice-flour group and the compound coarse grain group. All 4 group rats were given different feeds for 10 weeks, body weights were weighted, serum TC, TG and HDL-C contents were determined and liver pathology were observed. When compared with the negative control group, the disordered lipid metabolism model was successfully made in hyperlipemic control group. When compared with the hyperlipemic control group, the serum TG and TC contents significantly declined and HDL-C significantly increased in the compound coarse grain group. Moreover, the conditions of liver cell fatty degeneration in compound coarse grain group were slight. Compound coarse grain could improve the lipid metabolism in rats.
17713226	The aim of this investigation was to evaluate toxicity effects of pesticides in aquatic invertebrates using in situ bioassays with the local species, Daphnia magna. Investigations were carried out in the Delta del Ebro (northeast Spain) during the main growing season of rice (May-August). Measures of energy consumption (i.e., algal grazing) and of specific biochemical responses (biomarkers) were conducted in individuals transplanted at four stations, including a clean site upstream of the affected area and the three main channels that collect and drain the water from the rice fields into the sea. Seventeen pesticides were analyzed in water by on-line solid-phase extraction-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The results obtained indicated high levels of pesticides in water, with peak values of 487 microg/L for bentazone, 8 microg/L for methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, 5 microg/L for propanil, 0.8 microg/L for molinate, and 0.7 microg/L for fenitrothion. Measured biological responses denoted severe effects on grazing rates; a strong inhibition of cholinesterases and carboxylesterases, which are specific biomarkers of organophosphorous and carbamate pesticides; and altered patterns of the antioxidant enzyme catalase and the phase II metabolizing enzyme glutathione S-transferase. Correlation analysis with pesticide residue levels converted to toxic units relative to its acute 48-h median lethal concentration of D. magna indicated significant and negative coefficients between the dominant pesticide residues and the observed biological response, thus denoting a clear cause-and-effect relationship. The results emphasize the importance of considering specific (biomarkers) as well as more generalized and ecologically related (grazing) in situ responses to identify and evaluate biological effects of environmental contaminants in the field.
17713600	Rapid gastrointestinal absorption of refined carbohydrates (CHO) is linked to perturbed glucose-insulin metabolism that is, in turn, associated with many chronic health disorders. We assessed the ability of various natural substances, commonly referred to as "CHO blockers," to influence starch and sucrose absorption in vivo in ninety-six rats and two pigs. These natural enzyme inhibitors of amylase/sucrase reportedly lessen breakdown of starches and sucrose in the gastrointestinal tract, limiting their absorption. To estimate absorption, groups of nine SD rats were gavaged with water or water plus rice starch and/or sucrose; and circulating glucose was measured at timed intervals thereafter. For each variation in the protocol a total of at least nine different rats were studied with an equal number of internal controls on three different occasions. The pigs rapidly drank CHO and inhibitors in their drinking water. In rats, glucose elevations above baseline over four hours following rice starch challenge as estimated by area-under-curve (AUC) were 40%, 27%, and 85% of their internal control after ingesting bean extract, hibiscus extract, and l-arabinose respectively in addition to the rice starch. The former two were significantly different from control. L-Arabinose virtually eliminated the rising circulating glucose levels after sucrose challenge, whereas hibiscus and bean extracts were associated with lesser decreases than l-arabinose that were still significantly lower than control. The glucose elevations above baseline over four hours in rats receiving sucrose (AUC) were 51%, 43% and 2% of control for bean extract, hibiscus extract, and L-arabinose, respectively. Evidence for dose-response of bean and hibiscus extracts is reported. Giving the natural substances minus CHO challenge caused no significant changes in circulating glucose concentrations, indicating no major effects on overall metabolism. A formula combining these natural products significantly decreased both starch and sucrose absorption, even when the CHO were given simultaneously. These results support the hypothesis that the enzyme inhibitors examined here at reasonable doses can safely lower the glycemic loads starch and sucrose.
17713601	Acute oral consumption of various natural inhibitors of amylase (bean and hibiscus extracts) and sucrase (L-arabinose) reduce absorption of starch and sucrose respectively in rats and pigs measured by lessened appearance of circulating glucose levels. The present subchronic study was designed to determine whether these selected inhibitors of gastrointestinal starch and sucrose absorption (so-called "carb blockers") remain effective with continued use and to assess their metabolic influences after prolonged intake. Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged twice daily over nine weeks with either water or an equal volume of water containing a formula that included bean and hibiscus extracts and L-arabinose. To estimate CHO absorption, control and treated Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged with either water alone or an equal volume of water containing glucose, rice starch, sucrose, or combined rice starch and sucrose. Circulating glucose was measured at timed intervals over four hours. The ability to decrease starch and sucrose absorption use. No toxic effects (hepatic, renal, hematologic) were evident. Blood chemistries revealed significantly lower circulating glucose levels and a trend toward decreased HbA1C in the nondiabetic rats receiving the natural formulation compared to control. Subchronic administration of enzyme inhibitors was also associated with many metabolic changes including lowered systolic blood pressure and altered fluid-electrolyte balance. We postulate that proper intake of natural amylase and sucrase inhibitors may be useful in the prevention and treatment of many chronic disorders associated with perturbations in glucose-insulin homeostasis secondary to the rapid absorption of refined CHO.
17713838	Magnaporthe oryzae virus 1 (MoV1) found in Magnaporthe oryzae, the pathogenic fungus responsible for rice blast, is a small icosahedral virus with a nonsegmented double-stranded RNA genome. The viral genome has two open reading frames (ORF 1 and 2). The deduced amino acid sequences of both ORF 1 and ORF 2 show a significant similarity to those of capsid protein and RdRp, respectively, of members of the family Totiviridae. Both a comparison of genome organization and phylogenic analysis have indicated that MoV1 is closely related to some of the totiviruses that infect filamentous fungi. These results suggest that MoV1 belongs to the family Totiviridae.
17714430	Chloroplasts undergo drastic morphological and physiological changes during senescence with a visible symptom of chlorophyll (Chl) degradation. A stay green mutant was identified and then isolated from the japonica rice (Oryza sativa) cv. Huazhiwu by gamma-ray irradiation. The stay green mutant was characterized by Chl retention, stable Chl-protein complexes, and stable thylakoid membrane structures, but lost its photosynthetic competence during senescence. The gene, designated Stay Green Rice (SGR), was cloned by a positional cloning strategy encoding an ancient protein containing a putative chloroplast transit peptide. SGR protein was found in both soluble and thylakoid membranes in rice. SGR, like the gene for pheophorbide a oxygenase (PaO), was constitutively expressed, but was upregulated by dark-induced senescence in rice leaves. Senescence-induced expression of SGR and PaO was enhanced by ABA, but inhibited by cytokinin. Overexpression of SGR reduced the number of lamellae in the grana thylakoids and reduced the Chl content of normally growing leaves. This indicates that upregulation of SGR increases Chl breakdown during senescence in rice. A small quantity of chlorophyllide a accumulated in sgr leaves, but this also accumulated in wild-type rice leaves during senescence. Some pheophorbide a was detected in sgr leaves in the dark. According to these observations, we propose that SGR may be involved in regulating or taking part in the activity of PaO, and then may influence Chl breakdown and degradation of pigment-protein complex.
17714439	Rice seed-based edible vaccines expressing T-cell epitope peptides derived from Japanese cedar major pollen allergens have been used to successfully suppress allergen-specific Th2-mediated immunoglobulin E (IgE) responses in mouse experiments. In order to further expand the application of seed-based allergen-specific immunotherapy for controlling Japanese cedar pollinosis, we generated transgenic rice plants that specifically express recombinant Cry j 1 allergens in seeds. Cry j 1 allergens give low specific IgE-binding activity but contain all of the T-cell epitopes. The allergens were expressed directly or as a protein fusion with the major rice storage protein glutelin. Fusion proteins expressed under the control of the strong rice endosperm-specific GluB-1 promoter accumulated in rice endosperm tissue up to 15% of total seed protein. The fusion proteins aggregated with cysteine-rich prolamin and were deposited in endoplasmic reticulum-derived protein body I. The production of transgenic rice expressing structurally disrupted Cry j 1 peptides with low IgE binding activity but spanning the entire Cry j1 region can be used as a universal, safe and effective tolerogen for rice seed-based oral immunotherapy for cedar pollen allergy in humans and other mammals.
17716446	Calcium-deficiency rickets is common in south-east Bangladesh and responds to calcium supplementation. To evaluate the healing effect on active rickets of a five-component nutritional advice programme aimed at doubling dietary calcium intakes. Forty-nine children aged <10 years with mild lower limb deformities and active rickets were followed over a period of 12 months. All were provided with a five-component nutritional advice programme advocating (i) the routine addition of 1 g limestone/kg rice, (ii) consuming small fish (including bones) instead of large ones, and (iii) daily consumption of 5 g ground sesame seeds, (iv) 100 g leafy vegetables and, if possible, (v) 100 ml of milk. Radiographic scores improved in 90% of children. The response was positively associated with age (r=0.34, n=48, p=0.01) and severity of radiographic score at baseline (r=0.85, n=49, p<0.0001). Despite the lack of a statistically significant association between radiographic improvement and compliance with nutritional advice, in mild calcium-deficiency active rickets, nutritional advice may be a cost-effective treatment and possibly a valuable long-term solution to the problem.
17716486	Oviposition preference studies of the Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar), on sugarcane, Saccharum spp., and rice, Oryza sativa L., showed that drought stressed sugarcane was 1.8-fold more attractive based on egg masses/plant than well watered sugarcane. The E. loftini susceptible sugarcane cultivar LCP 85-384 was 1.6-fold more attractive than HoCP 85-845 based on numbers of eggs per egg mass. Egg masses were 9.2-fold more abundant and 2.3-fold larger on sugarcane than on rice. Rice, however, was preferred to sugarcane on a plant biomass basis. Oviposition on sugarcane occurred exclusively on dry leaf material, which increased under drought stress. Egg masses per plant increased on drought stressed sugarcane and were correlated with several foliar free amino acids essential for insect growth and development. The more resistant (based on injury) but more attractive (based on oviposition) rice cultivar XL8 had higher levels of several free amino acids than the susceptible cultivar Cocodrie. The association of host plant characteristics to oviposition preference is discussed. Projected oviposition patterns relative to sugarcane and rice production areas were estimated for Texas and Louisiana based on the availability of each host in different regions of each state. These results suggest that, where sugarcane and rice co-occur, the majority of eggs would be found on sugarcane early in the season, because of this crop's substantially greater biomass compared with rice. Abundance later in the season would also favor sugarcane; however, the abundance on rice would be greater than expected solely based on host availability, largely because of the greater preference per gram of rice plant dry weight.
17716996	Linolenic acid (18:3) is the most abundant fatty acid in plant membrane lipids and is a source for various oxidized metabolites, called oxylipins. 18:3 and oxylipins play important roles in the induction of defense responses to pathogen infection and wound stress in Arabidopsis. However, in rice, endogenous roles for 18:3 and oxylipins in disease resistance have not been confirmed. We generated 18:3-deficient transgenic rice plants (F78Ri) with co-suppression of two omega-3 fatty acid desaturases, OsFAD7 and OsFAD8. that synthesize 18:3. The F78Ri plants showed enhanced resistance to the phytopathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea. A typical 18:3-derived oxylipin, jasmonic acid (JA), acts as a signaling molecule in defense responses to fungal infection in Arabidopsis. However, in F78Ri plants, the expression of JA-responsive pathogenesis-related genes, PBZ1 and PR1b, was induced after inoculation with M. grisea, although the JA-mediated wound response was suppressed. Furthermore, the application of JA methyl ester had no significant effect on the enhanced resistance in F78Ri plants. Taken together, our results indicate that, although suppression of fatty acid desaturases involves the concerted action of varied oxylipins via diverse metabolic pathways, 18:3 or 18:3-derived oxylipins, except for JA, may contribute to signaling on defense responses of rice to M. grisea infection.
17717596	The antibiotic effect of rice-fluid on Helicobacter pylori infection was investigated using a Mongolian gerbil model. Gerbils were divided into four groups: H. pylori -infected, rice-fluid-treated animals (group A); H. pylori -infected, untreated animals (group B); uninfected, rice-fluid-treated animals (group C); and uninfected, untreated animals (group D). Group A and B animals were killed 14 weeks after H. pylori infection and group C and D animals were killed at the same age. The stomachs were examined for histology, 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, and the bacterial burden. Serum anti-H. pylori antibody titers were also tested. The positive incidence of H. pylori -culture was 25 and 84 % in groups A and B, respectively (p<0.01). Both the degree of inflammation and the BrdU labeling index in group A were significantly lower than those in group B. Rice-fluid showed an antibiotic effect on H. pylori and an anti-inflammatory effect on the H. pylori -associated gastritis.
17719075	Previous studies demonstrated that black carbon (BC) in soils arising from the burning of crop residues is a highly effective adsorbent for organic contaminants. This work evaluated the adsorptive ability of BC for heavy metals in relation to the BC surface characteristics. Two BC samples, rice carbon (RC) and wheat carbon (WC) isolated from the burning residues of rice straw and wheat straw, respectively, were characterized for their surface properties with reference to a commercial activated carbon (AC). While RC and WC had lower surface areas than AC, the two BC samples possessed higher surface acidities and thus lower pH of the isoelectric points (pH IEP) than AC as indicated by titration, FTIR, and zeta potential measurements. The Pb(II) adsorption by RC and WC was higher than that by AC and increased significantly with increasing pH, suggesting the electrostatic interactions between positive Pb(II) species and negatively charged functional groups on RC and WC as the primary adsorptive forces. A reduction in the total positive charge of Pb(II) species with increasing pH as computed by MINTEQA2 suggested that the deprotonation of surface functional groups of RC and WC was the controlling factor of the adsorption. The Pb(II) adsorption decreased with increasing ionic strength, due to the screening role of Na+ in neutralizing the negative charge of RC and WC. This study demonstrated that BC may be an important adsorbent of heavy metals in soil and that the adsorption may be significantly influenced by environmental conditions.
17719159	This article discusses the wider experiences regarding the usefulness of the 90-day rat feeding study for the testing of whole foods from genetically modified (GM) plant based on data from a recent EU-project [Poulsen, M., Schrder, M., Wilcks, A., Kroghsbo, S., Lindecrona, R.H., Miller, A., Frenzel, T., Danier, J., Rychlik, M., Shu, Q., Emami, K., Taylor, M., Gatehouse, A., Engel, K.-H., Knudsen, I., 2007a. Safety testing of GM-rice expressing PHA-E lectin using a new animal test design. Food Chem. Toxicol. 45, 364-377; Poulsen, M., Kroghsbo, S., Schrder, M., Wilcks, A., Jacobsen, H., Miller, A., Frenzel, T., Danier, J., Rychlik, M., Shu, Q., Emami, K., Sudhakar, D., Gatehouse, A., Engel, K.-H., Knudsen, I., 2007b. A 90-day safety in Wistar rats fed genetically modified rice expressing snowdrop lectin Galanthus nivalis (GNA). Food Chem. Toxicol. 45, 350-363; Schrder, M., Poulsen, M., Wilcks, A., Kroghsbo, S., Miller, A., Frenzel, T., Danier, J., Rychlik, M., Emami, K., Gatehouse, A., Shu, Q., Engel, K.-H., Knudsen, I., 2007. A 90-day safety study of genetically modified rice expressing Cry1Ab protein (Bacillus thuringiensis toxin) in Wistar rats. Food Chem. Toxicol. 45, 339-349]. The overall objective of the project has been to develop and validate the scientific methodology necessary for assessing the safety of foods from genetically modified plants in accordance with the present EU regulation. The safety assessment in the project is combining the results of the 90-day rat feeding study on the GM food with and without spiking with the pure novel gene product, with the knowledge about the identity of the genetic change, the compositional data of the GM food, the results from in-vitro/ex-vivo studies as well as the results from the preceding 28-day toxicity study with the novel gene product, before the hazard characterisation is concluded. The results demonstrated the ability of the 90-day rat feeding study to detect the biological/toxicological effects of the new gene product in the GM food. The authors consider on this basis that the 90-day, rodent feeding study with one high dose level and a dietary design based upon compositional data on the GM food and toxicity data on the gene product is sensitive and specific enough to verify the presence/absence of the biological/nutritional/toxicological effects of the novel gene insert and further by the use of spiking able to separate potentially unintended effects of the novel gene product from other unintended effects at the level of intake defined in the test and within the remit of the test. Recommendations for further work necessary in the field are given.
17719628	High-sensitivity differential scanning microcalorimetry (HSDSC), small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), light (LM) and scanning electronic (SEM) microscopy techniques were used to study the defectiveness of different supramolecular structures in starches extracted from 11 Thai cultivars of rice differing in level of amylose and amylopectin defects in starch crystalline lamellae. Despite differences in chain-length distribution of amylopectin macromolecules and amylose level in starches, the invariance in the sizes of crystalline lamellae, amylopectin clusters and granules was established. The combined analysis of DSC, SAXS, LM and SEM data for native starches, as well as the comparison of the thermodynamic data for native and annealed starches, allowed to determine the structure of defects and the localization of amylose chains in crystalline and amorphous lamellae, defectiveness of lamellae, clusters and granules. It was shown that amylose "tie chains", amylose-lipid complexes located in crystalline lamellae, defective ends of double helical chains dangling from crystallites inside amorphous lamellae ("dangling" chains), as well as amylopectin chains with DP 6-12 and 25-36 could be considered as defects. Their accumulation can lead to a formation of remnant granules. The changes observed in the structure of amylopectin chains and amylose content in starches are reflected in the interconnected alterations of structural organization on the lamellar, cluster and granule levels.
17720610	Heterosis describes the superior performance of heterozygous hybrid plants over their homozygous parental inbred lines. Despite the rediscovery of this phenomenon a century ago and its paramount agronomic importance, the genetic and molecular basis of heterosis remains enigmatic. Recently, various pioneer studies described differences in genome organization and gene expression of hybrids and their parental inbred lines. At the genomic level, a significant loss of colinearity at many loci between different inbred lines of maize was observed. At the level of gene expression, complex transcriptional networks specific for different developmental stages and tissues were monitored in maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Integration of this complex expression data might contribute to improve our understanding of the molecular basis of heterosis.
17720613	The reversible conjugation of the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) peptide to protein substrates (sumoylation) is emerging as a major post-translational regulatory process in animals and other eukaryotes, including plants. Database annotation, and genetic and biochemical analyses indicate that components of the SUMO conjugation and deconjugation systems are conserved in plants such as Arabidopsis, rice, tomato, and Medicago. Specifically, Arabidopsis AtSUMO1/2 and SUMO E2 conjugation enzyme AtSCE1a are implicated in abscisic acid (ABA) responses and the ubiquitin-like SUMO protease 1 (ULP1) AtESD4 in flowering time regulation. The AtSIZ1 SUMO E3 ligase functions in phosphate starvation responses, cold tolerance, basal thermotolerance, salicylic acid (SA)-dependent pathogen defense, and flowering time regulation. Following is a brief overview of the current understanding of SUMO conjugation and deconjugation determinants, and biological processes that are regulated in plants.
17720669	The paper focuses on conservation agriculture (CA), defined as minimal soil disturbance (no-till, NT) and permanent soil cover (mulch) combined with rotations, as a more sustainable cultivation system for the future. Cultivation and tillage play an important role in agriculture. The benefits of tillage in agriculture are explored before introducing conservation tillage (CT), a practice that was borne out of the American dust bowl of the 1930s. The paper then describes the benefits of CA, a suggested improvement on CT, where NT, mulch and rotations significantly improve soil properties and other biotic factors. The paper concludes that CA is a more sustainable and environmentally friendly management system for cultivating crops. Case studies from the rice-wheat areas of the Indo-Gangetic Plains of South Asia and the irrigated maize-wheat systems of Northwest Mexico are used to describe how CA practices have been used in these two environments to raise production sustainably and profitably. Benefits in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and their effect on global warming are also discussed. The paper concludes that agriculture in the next decade will have to sustainably produce more food from less land through more efficient use of natural resources and with minimal impact on the environment in order to meet growing population demands. Promoting and adopting CA management systems can help meet this goal.
17720868	Selective ubiquitination of proteins is directed by diverse families of ubiquitin-protein ligases (or E3s) in plants. One important type uses Cullin-3 as a scaffold to assemble multisubunit E3 complexes containing one of a multitude of bric-a-brac/tramtrack/broad complex (BTB) proteins that function as substrate recognition factors. We previously described the 80-member BTB gene superfamily in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we describe the complete BTB superfamily in rice (Oryza sativa spp japonica cv Nipponbare) that contains 149 BTB domain-encoding genes and 43 putative pseudogenes. Amino acid sequence comparisons of the rice and Arabidopsis superfamilies revealed a near equal repertoire of putative substrate recognition module types. However, phylogenetic comparisons detected numerous gene duplication and/or loss events since the rice and Arabidopsis BTB lineages split, suggesting possible functional specialization within individual BTB families. In particular, a major expansion and diversification of a subset of BTB proteins containing Meprin and TRAF homology (MATH) substrate recognition sites was evident in rice and other monocots that likely occurred following the monocot/dicot split. The MATH domain of a subset appears to have evolved significantly faster than those in a smaller core subset that predates flowering plants, suggesting that the substrate recognition module in many monocot MATH-BTB E3s are diversifying to ubiquitinate a set of substrates that are themselves rapidly changing. Intriguing possibilities include pathogen proteins attempting to avoid inactivation by the monocot host.
17720914	The Pm3 gene from wheat confers resistance against powdery mildew and recent studies have shown that it is a member of a multigene family in the wheat genome. We compared genomic sequences ranging from 178 to 332 kb containing six Pm3-like genes and five gene fragments from orthologous loci in the A genome of wheat at three different ploidy levels. We found that the wheat Pm3 loci display an extremely dynamic evolution where sequence conservation is minimal between species and basically limited to very short sequences containing the genetic markers that define the orthology. The Pm3-like genes and their up- and downstream regions were reshuffled by multiple rearrangements, resulting in a complex mosaic of conserved and unique sequences. Comparison with rice showed that the known wheat Pm3-like genes represent only one branch of a large superfamily with several clusters in rice and suggests the presence of additional similar genes in the wheat genome. Estimates of divergence times and transposable-element insertions indicate that the Pm3 locus in wheat has undergone more drastic changes in its recent evolution than its counterpart in rice. This indicates that loci containing homologous resistance gene analogs can evolve at highly variable speeds in different species.
17721046	The (13)C-octanoic acid breath test is widely used for evaluating gastric emptying of solids. Since the results of this test are influenced by multiple factors such as the time required to grind the solid meal into smaller particles, the gastroduodenal transport time of the ground meal, and the time required for bowel drug absorption and drug dispersion, the administration of a test meal by the oral route alone cannot result in an accurate measurement of the complicated process of emptying the stomach of solids. The aim of the present study was to evaluate each phase of gastric emptying of solids by varying the administration route of the test meal. Six healthy male volunteers (mean age: 33.2 yr) participated in the study. The test meal consisted of a bowl of rice topped with a mixture of boiled chicken and eggs admixed with 100 mg of (13)C-octanoic acid (total: 273 kcal). All subjects were given the test meal by each of the following three methods: 1. Normal oral intake of the test meal, 2. Feeding of the ground test meal through a nasogastric tube, 3. Feeding of the ground test meal through a duodenal tube. For each set of examinations, the mean residence time (MRT), half-emptying time (T(1/2)), gastric emptying coefficient (GEC), lag phase (L-breath), and measured maximum (13)C excretion time (Tmax-measured) were calculated. The data was analyzed to determine the time for each phase of gastric emptying as follows: mean grinding time (MGT) = MRT(oral) - MRT(nasogastric), mean gastroduodenal transport time (MGDTT) = MRT(nasogastric) - MRT (nasoduodenal). Data was expressed as the mean +/- SE. The values of the parameters of MGT were 0.82 +/- 0.50 hr (MRT), 0.64 +/- 0.18 hr (T(1/2)), 0.51 +/- 0.24 hr (L-breath), -0.45 +/- 0.30 hr (GEC), and 49.2 +/- 8.0 min (Tmax-measured). The values of the parameters of MGDTT were 0.87 +/- 0.38 hr (MRT), 0.26 +/- 0.29 hr (T(1/2)), 0.92 +/- 0.36 hr (L-breath), 0.55 +/- 0.23 hr (GEC), and 63.33 +/- 8.16 min (Tmax-measured). The times required for the drug absorption and disposition were 1.60 0.20 hr (MRT), 1.03 +/- 0.24 hr (T(1/2)), 0.10 +/- 0.08 hr (L-breath), 3.72 +/- 0.46 hr (GEC), and 19.67 +/- 2.11 min (Tmax-measured). By varying the administration route of a test meal containing (13)C-octanoic acid, we may be able to assess each phase of the emptying of gastric solids in detail, thus leading to a better understanding of gastroduodenal motility.
17721507	The analysis of the first plant genomes provided unexpected evidence for genome duplication events in species that had previously been considered as true diploids on the basis of their genetics. These polyploidization events may have had important consequences in plant evolution, in particular for species radiation and adaptation and for the modulation of functional capacities. Here we report a high-quality draft of the genome sequence of grapevine (Vitis vinifera) obtained from a highly homozygous genotype. The draft sequence of the grapevine genome is the fourth one produced so far for flowering plants, the second for a woody species and the first for a fruit crop (cultivated for both fruit and beverage). Grapevine was selected because of its important place in the cultural heritage of humanity beginning during the Neolithic period. Several large expansions of gene families with roles in aromatic features are observed. The grapevine genome has not undergone recent genome duplication, thus enabling the discovery of ancestral traits and features of the genetic organization of flowering plants. This analysis reveals the contribution of three ancestral genomes to the grapevine haploid content. This ancestral arrangement is common to many dicotyledonous plants but is absent from the genome of rice, which is a monocotyledon. Furthermore, we explain the chronology of previously described whole-genome duplication events in the evolution of flowering plants.
17721744	An Indian isolate of Rice tungro bacilliform virus from West Bengal (RTBV-WB) showed significant nucleotide differences in its putative promoter region when compared with a previously characterized isolate from Philippines. The transcription start site of RTBV-WB was mapped followed by assessing the activity and tissue-specificity of the full-length (FL) promoter (-231 to +645) and several of its upstream and downstream deletions by studying the expression of beta-Glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica) plants at various stages of development. In addition to the expected vascular-specific expression pattern, studied by histochemical staining, GUS enzymatic assay and northern and RT-PCR analysis, two novel patterns were revealed in some of the downstream deleted versions; a non-expressing type, representing no expression at any stage in any tissue and constitutive type, representing constitutive expression at all stages in most tissues. This indicated the presence of previously unreported positive and negative cis-regulatory elements in the downstream region. The negative element and a putative enhancer region in the upstream region specifically bound to rice nuclear proteins in vitro. The FL and its deletion derivatives were also active in heterologous systems like tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and wheat (Triticum durum). Expression patterns in tobacco were different from those observed in rice suggesting the importance of upstream elements in those systems and host-specific regulation of the promoter in diverse organisms. Thus, the RTBV-WB FL promoter and its derivatives contain an array of cis-elements, which control constitutive or tissue- and development-specific gene expression in a combinatorial fashion.
17721797	Agricultural activities are important contributors to the emissions of greenhouse gases. This study ascertained the dynamic emission of nitrous oxide (N(2)O) from a paddy field under a rice-duck farming system in South China. Two different cultivation and fertilizer treatments, namely, organic fertilizer + ducks (OF+D) and chemical fertilizer + ducks (CF+D) treatments, were employed in this study. Experimental data showed that diurnal variations of N(2)O emission were highly correlated with the activities of ducklings. The rates of N(2)O emission were normally increased in the early morning and late afternoon due to the frequent movement of ducklings at these time periods. Our study further revealed that the rates of N(2)O emission from the paddy field varied with the types of fertilizers used as well as with the stages of the rice growth. In general, the rates of N(2)O emission were higher for the CF+D treatment than for the OF+D treatment, whereas more N(2)O was emitted from the paddy field at the tillering stage than at the heading stage. The global warming potential with the use of the organic fertilizer was about 22% lower than with the use of the chemical fertilizer.
17721884	The measurement of volume change, which is induced by changing the relative humidity, is performed on rice by using environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM) and stereoscopy techniques. The typical DeltaV% approximately RH curve of rice in both sorption and desorption can be categorized into three regions: low, intermediate, and high dependence on relative humidity from low- to high-relative humidity. The volume changes faster for rice samples with lower crystallinity, which is because the amorphous component is easier to absorb moisture than the crystalline component. The volume change behavior in various relative humidity environments is comparable with rice isotherm curve in sorption process though discrepancies exist in desorption, which are thought to be the presence of small pores and microstructure changes at high relative humidity. The volume in the desorption branch is less than that in the sorption branch at the same relative humidity, which can be attributed to the collapse of interior structures, existence of small pores, surface topography loss, and amylose leach.
17722143	The present study investigated rice leaf proteome in response to heat stress. Rice seedlings were subjected to a temperature of 42 degrees C and samples were collected 12 and 24 h after treatment. Increased relative ion leakage and lipid peroxidation suggested that oxidative stress frequently was generated in rice leaves exposed to high temperature. 2-DE, coupled with MS, was used to investigate and identify heat-responsive proteins in rice leaves. In order to identify the low-abundant proteins in leaves, samples were prefractionated by 15% PEG. The PEG supernatant and the pellet fraction samples were separated by 2-DE, and visualized by silver or CBB staining. Approximately 1000 protein spots were reproducibly detected on each gel, wherein 73 protein spots were differentially expressed at least at one time point. Of these differentially expressed proteins, a total of 34 and 39 protein spots were found in the PEG supernatant and pellet fractions, respectively. Using MALDI-TOF MS, a total of 48 proteins were identified. These proteins were categorized into classes related to heat shock proteins, energy and metabolism, redox homeostasis, and regulatory proteins. The results of the present study show that a group of low molecular small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) were newly induced by heat stress. Among these sHSPs, a low molecular weight mitochondrial (Mt) sHSP was validated further by Western blot analysis. Furthermore, four differentially accumulated proteins that correspond to antioxidant enzymes were analyzed at the mRNA level, which confirmed the differential gene expression levels, and revealed that transcription levels were not completely concomitant with translation. The identification of some novel proteins in the heat stress response provides new insights that can lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of heat-sensitivity in plants.
17722898	The ab initio/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) approach has been applied to investigate the photodissociation mechanism of 1,3,5-triazine at different wavelengths of the absorbed photon. Reaction pathways leading to various decomposition products have been mapped out at the G3(MP2,CC)//B3LYP level, and then the RRKM and microcanonical variational transition state theories have been applied to compute rate constants for individual reaction steps. Relative product yields (branching ratios) for the dissociation products have been calculated using the steady-state approach. The results show that, after being excited by 275, 248, or 193 nm photons, the triazine molecule isomerizes to an opened-ring structure on the first singlet excited-state potential energy surface (PES), which is followed by relaxation into the ground electronic state via internal conversion. On the contrary, excitation by 285 and 295 nm photons cannot initiate the ring-opening reaction on the excited-state PES, and the molecule relaxes into the energized ring isomer in the ground electronic state. The dissociation reaction starting from the ring isomer is calculated to have branching ratios of various reaction channels significantly different from those for the reaction initiating from the opened-ring structure. The existence of two distinct mechanisms of 1,3,5-triazine photodissociation can explain the inconsistency in the translational energy distributions of HCN moieties at different wavelengths observed experimentally.
17723461	In this paper, an ordered mesoporous alumina coating was prepared and applied to capillary microextraction (CME) of trace Co, Ni and Cd for the first time. The coated capillary was used for on-line coupling CME with inductively plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) for the determination of trace metals of Co, Ni and Cd. The porous structure of Al2O3 coating was examined by SEM and TEM. The effects of the extraction parameters including pH, sample flow rate and volume, elution solution and interfering ions on the recovery of analytes have been investigated and optimized. Under the optimized conditions, the limits of detection were 0.33, 1.5 and 1.4 ng L(-1) for Co, Ni and Cd, respectively, with a preconcentration factor of 10 times. The precisions for all investigated elements were 2.7, 4.1 and 2.5% (c=0.05 ng L(-1), n=7), for Co, Ni and Cd, respectively, and the sample frequency was 8 h(-1). The proposed method was successfully applied for the analysis of trace metals in water, rice and urine samples with the recovery of 94-105%. In order to validate the proposed method, two certified reference materials of GBW 0913 human urine and NIES No.10-b rice flour were analyzed, and the determination values are in good agreement with the certified values. The ordered mesoporous Al2O3 coated capillary can be used more than 20 times without decreasing the extraction efficiency.
1772353	Assessments have been made of serum IgE and IgA value, specific IgE and IgG4 antibody titers to foods, house dust, mite and percent peripheral++ eosinophil count in 191 infants with and without eczema between 5-7 months of age. Eczema patients were divided into 4 groups according to the degree of eczema involvement and laboratory data were compared between these and not eczematous group. The results were as follows; 1) IgE antibody titers were higher as the degree of eczema involvement increased. 2) RAST positive rates to foods increased with the degree of eczema involvement. Positive rate was highest to egg white followed by milk, soybean, wheat and rice. 3) Only 9 cases were RAST-positive to rice or wheat and all of them had IgE antibodies to other allergens tested. 4) A value of 10 IU/ml, which is the lowest measurable value of IgE in infants was considered to be a little too high to speculate allergy to some foods. 5) Specific IgG4 antibodies were positive only to milk. 6) All the 18 cases with positive milk-specific IgG4 antibody were all negative in milk-specific IgE antibody, and conversely all the 14 cases with positive milk-specific IgE antibody were negative in milk-specific IgG4 antibody. From these results, it was concluded that food allergy is related to the degree of eczema involvement in infants between 5-7 months of age.
1772433	The chloroplast genomes of flowering plants are circular DNA molecules, 120 to 160 kilobase pairs long, encoding the rRNA, all tRNAs, and 21 r-proteins of the chloroplast translational apparatus as well as key protein components of the photosynthetic and carbon reduction cycle reactions. In this paper we describe some characteristics of the rye chloroplast (plastid) genome and the construction and characterization of a clone library of 93% of its DNA in a plasmid and a cosmid vector. The size of rye chloroplast DNA is estimated at 135 kbp, similar to that for wheat and rice but slightly smaller than the estimate for maize (139 kbp). Chloroplast ribosome deficiency is induced in rye seedlings by germination and growth at 32 degrees-34 degrees C; therefore these clones would be useful for analyzing the regulation of chloroplast ribosome synthesis in higher plants, a process that requires coordinate expression of genes located in the nucleus and the chloroplast.
17725318	Brown rice is a valuable source of lipid-soluble antioxidants including ferulated phytosterols (i.e., gamma-oryzanol), tocopherols, and tocotrienols. To evaluate the impact of temperature on the accumulation of these compounds, seeds from six different rice lines grown to maturity in replicate greenhouses in Gainesville, FL, were analyzed. The lines represented Oryza sativa indica, O. sativa japonica, and Oryza glaberrima of different origins. Temperatures were maintained near ambient at one end of each greenhouse and at approximately 4.5 degrees C above ambient at the other end. gamma-Oryzanols, tocopherols, and tocotrienols were extracted from whole seed (i.e., brown rice) and analyzed by HPLC. Tocotrienols and tocopherols varied widely between lines but changed only slightly with respect to temperature. In general, the proportions of alpha-tocotrienol and/or alpha-tocopherol increased at elevated temperature, whereas gamma-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol decreased. Six gamma-oryzanol peaks, identified on the basis of absorbance maxima at 330 nm and HPLC-mass spectrometry, were quantified. The most abundant component was 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate, present at 40-62% of total. Its levels increased 35-57% at elevated temperature in five of six lines, accounting for most of the change in total gamma-oryzanol. The results suggest that the physiological action of individual ferulated phytosterols should be investigated because their relative proportions in gamma-oryzanol can change.
17725622	Temperature change affects methane consumption in soil. However, there is no information on possible temperature control of methanotrophic bacterial populations. Therefore, we studied CH(4) consumption and populations of methanotrophs in an upland forest soil and a rice field soil incubated at different temperatures between 5 and 45 degrees C for up to 40 days. Potential methane consumption was measured at 4% CH(4). The temporal progress of CH(4) consumption indicated growth of methanotrophs. Both soils showed maximum CH(4) consumption at 25-35 degrees C, but no activity at >40 degrees C. In forest soil CH(4) was also consumed at 5 degrees C, but in rice soil only at 15 degrees C. Methanotroph populations were assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) targeting particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA) genes. Eight T-RFs with relative abundance >1% were retrieved from both forest and rice soil. The individual T-RFs were tentatively assigned to different methanotrophic populations (e.g. Methylococcus/Methylocaldum, Methylomicrobium, Methylobacter, Methylocystis/Methylosinus) according to published sequence data. Two T-RFs were assigned to ammonium monooxygenase (amoA) gene sequences. Statistical tests showed that temperature affected the relative abundance of most T-RFs. Furthermore, the relative abundance of individual T-RFs differed between the two soils, and also exhibited different temperature dependence. We conclude that temperature can be an important factor regulating the community composition of methanotrophs in soil.
17727036	We comparatively studied the dynamics of malaria transmission in the villages of Zatta (located in close proximity to an irrigated rice perimeter) and Timlkro (rural area with traditional agriculture), central Cte d'Ivoire. In the former village, the irrigated rice farming had been interrupted in 2003/2004 due to a farmers' conflict over land. In each village, mosquitoes were collected by human landing catches at night in sentinel houses. Anopheles gambiae was the predominant malaria vector, followed by An. funestus. In Zatta, the return to an irrigated rice farming in January 2005 was paralleled by a significant increase of the entomological inoculation rate (EIR) ranging from 38 infective bites per person per year (ib/ply) in 2003 to 295 ib/ply in 2005. In Timlkro high EIRs were found in 2003 (342 ib/ply) and 2005 (572 ib/ply). Our findings confirm that changes in irrigated rice agriculture influence malaria transmission dynamics, and call for control measures that are readily adapted to local eco-epidemiological settings.
17727616	Guanylate kinase (GK) is a critical enzyme in guanine nucleotide metabolism pathways, catalyzing the phosphorylation of (d)GMP to (d)GDP. Here we show that a novel gene, VIRESCENT 2 (V2), encodes a new type of GK (designated pt/mtGK) that is localized in plastids and mitochondria. We initially identified the V2 gene by positional cloning of the rice v2 mutant. The v2 mutant is temperature-sensitive and develops chlorotic leaves at restrictive temperatures. The v2 mutation causes inhibition of chloroplast differentiation; in particular, it disrupts the chloroplast translation machinery during early leaf development [Sugimoto et al. (2004)Plant Cell Physiol. 45, 985]. In the bacterial and animal species studied to date, GK is localized in the cytoplasm and participates in maintenance of the guanine nucleotide pools required for many fundamental cellular processes. Phenotypic analysis of rice seedlings with RNAi knockdown of cytosolic GK (designated cGK) showed that cGK is indispensable for the growth and development of plants, but not for chloroplast development. Thus, rice has two types of GK, as does Arabidopsis, suggesting that higher plants have two types of GK. Our results suggest that, of the two types of GK, only pt/mtGK is essential for chloroplast differentiation.
17727727	The genus Oryza is composed of 10 distinct genome types, 6 diploid and 4 polyploid, and includes the world's most important food crop - rice (Oryza sativa [AA]). Genome size variation in the Oryza is more than 3-fold and ranges from 357 Mbp in Oryza glaberrima [AA] to 1283 Mbp in the polyploid Oryza ridleyi [HHJJ]. Because repetitive elements are known to play a significant role in genome size variation, we constructed random sheared small insert genomic libraries from 12 representative Oryza species and conducted a comprehensive study of the repetitive element composition, distribution and phylogeny in this genus. Particular attention was paid to the role played by the most important classes of transposable elements (Long Terminal Repeats Retrotransposons, Long interspersed Nuclear Elements, helitrons, DNA transposable elements) in shaping these genomes and in their contributing to genome size variation. We identified the elements primarily responsible for the most strikingly genome size variation in Oryza. We demonstrated how Long Terminal Repeat retrotransposons belonging to the same families have proliferated to very different extents in various species. We also showed that the pool of Long Terminal Repeat Retrotransposons is substantially conserved and ubiquitous throughout the Oryza and so its origin is ancient and its existence predates the speciation events that originated the genus. Finally we described the peculiar behavior of repeats in the species Oryza coarctata [HHKK] whose placement in the Oryza genus is controversial. Long Terminal Repeat retrotransposons are the major component of the Oryza genomes analyzed and, along with polyploidization, are the most important contributors to the genome size variation across the Oryza genus. Two families of Ty3-gypsy elements (RIRE2 and Atlantys) account for a significant portion of the genome size variations present in the Oryza genus.
17728010	We examined the effect of ethylene on the growth of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) at various degrees of humidity. Ethylene significantly suppressed the growth of shoots when applied to seedlings grown under 30% relative humidity (RH), but promoted the growth of shoots when applied to seedlings grown under 100% RH. The application of gibberellic acid (GA(3)) promoted the elongation of shoots in seedlings grown under 30% and 100% RH. Ethylene inhibited the shoot elongation induced by GA(3) at 30% RH, but enhanced the elongation induced by GA(3) at 100% RH. These results indicate that ethylene can either promote or suppress the growth of rice shoots depending on ambient humidity, and that these actions of ethylene may be mediated through modulating the responsiveness of shoots to gibberellin.
17728297	The roles of the rice sucrose transporter, OsSUT1, have previously been examined in filling grain, germination, and early seedling growth. In the current work, the role that OsSUT1 plays in the transport of assimilate along the entire long-distance pathway, from the flag leaf blade to the base of the filling grain, was investigated. OsSUT1 promoter::GUS (beta-glucuronidase) reporter gene analysis and immunolocalization revealed that both OsSUT1 promoter::GUS activity and OsSUT protein were present in the mature phloem of all the vegetative tissues involved in the long-distance assimilate transport pathway during grain filling. In addition, expression was observed in the flag leaf blade and sheath prior to heading. The OsSUT1 promoter::GUS activity appeared to be largely confined to the companion cells within the phloem, whereas the protein localized to both the sieve tubes and the companion cells. RT-PCR analysis confirmed that the OsSUT1 transcript is expressed in the uppermost internode of the rice plant (internode-1). These OsSUT localization data were related to measurements of starch and soluble sugar content of these tissues, and localization of the carbohydrate reserves stored in the stem. Results from dye feeding experiments, to examine cellular connections, revealed a symplastic continuity between the phloem and surrounding parenchyma in the flag leaf blade, sheath, and internode-1 tissues. It is proposed that OsSUT1 may primarily play a role in phloem loading of sucrose retrieved from the apoplasm along the transport pathway.
17729272	Plant nonspecific lipid transfer protein 2 (nsLTP2) is a small (7 kDa) protein that binds lipid-like ligands. An inner hydrophobic cavity surrounded by alpha-helices is the defining structural feature of nsLTP2. Although nsLTP2 structures have been reported earlier, the detailed mechanisms of ligand binding and lipid transfer remain unclear. In this study, we used site-directed mutagenesis to determine the role of various hydrophobic residues (L8, I15, F36, F39, Y45, Y48, and V49) in the structure, stability, ligand binding, and lipid transfer activity of rice nsLTP2. Three single mutations (L8A, F36A, and V49A) drastically alter the native tertiary structure and perturb ligand binding and lipid transfer activity. Therefore, these three residues are structurally important. The Y45A mutant, however, retains a native-like structure but has decreased lipid binding affinity and lipid transfer activity, implying that this aromatic residue is critical for these biological functions. The mutants, I15A and Y48A, exhibit quite different ligand binding affinities. Y48 is involved in planar sterol binding but not linear lysophospholipid association. As for I15A, it had the highest dehydroergosterol binding affinity in spite of the lower lipid binding and transfer abilities. Our results suggest that the long alkyl side chain of I15 would restrict the flexibility of loop I (G13-A19) for sterol entry. Finally, F39A can markedly increase the exposed hydrophobic surface to maintain its transfer efficiency despite reduced ligand binding affinity. These findings suggest that the residues forming the hydrophobic cavity play various important roles in the structure and function of rice nsLTP2.
17729429
17734902
17734903	There is remarkably rich diversity in the cultivated rices and their wild relatives. Substantial segments of the diverse germplasm have been collected and conserved during the past two decades by national, regional, and international research centers. Multidisciplinary and interinstitutional evaluation and use have drawn substantial rewards. However, nations in the developing world that grow and consume rice still face enormous challenges to meet the continuous growth of the human population. Further conservation efforts and improved preservation measures are needed to provide security for the irreplaceable rice germplasm. Modest inputs into conservation programs are highly justified by multibillion dollar returns from the improved varieties in the past two decades.
17735690	In the report "Aflatoxin production by a variant of Apergillus oryzae (NRRL strain 1988) on cowpeas (Vigna sinensis)" by N. El-Hag and R. E. Morse [192, 1345 (1976)], the third sentence in the legend to Table 1 should read "This strain produced aflatoxin on rice (expressed as micrograms per kilogram ...)." Also, the heading for columns 2 and 3 of Table 1 should read "Aflatoxin (microg/kg) from A. oryzae."
17736497	Non Nok Tha is a prehistoric site in northeast Thailand. The radiocarbon dates suggest that it was first occupied by at least 3500 B.C., and possibly as early as 5000 B.C. The deepest levels contain unexpectedly early evidence for rice cultivation and bronze casting. Multivariate and cultural analyses of the bovine bones suggest that the first inhabitants raised domesticated cattle. This is among the earliest evidence for bovine domestication known.
17738275	For years, crop science has been balkanized, with specialists in rice, corn, and soybeans, for example, working on their own commodities and attending their own meetings. But at the First International Crop Science Congress, held in July in Ames, Iowa-an 8-day event 3 years in the making-the discipline displayed a newfound hybrid vigor. More than 1000 researchers of various persuasions, including plant molecular biology, classical plant breeding, agronomy, and soil science, representing 85 countries, shared their expertise in basic and applied studies. Here are a couple of proposals for expanding world food production and another that shows the diverse roles crops can play.
17738418	Alfalfa meal and chloroform extracts of the meal have increased the growth and yield of several plant species. A crystalline substance isolated from the active fraction of alfalfa meal increased the dry weight and water uptake of rice seedlings when sprayed on the foliage or applied in nutrient culture. The substance was identified as triacontanol by mass spectrometry. Sprays containing this compound also increased the growth of corn, and barley grown in soil. Authentic triacontanol produced a similar response over a wide range of concentrations on rice grown in nutrient cultures and tomatoes grown in soil.
17739573	The scent-gland secretion of the rice stink bug Oebalus pugnax (F.) is composed of a liquid two-phase system. The saturated hydrocarbon n-tridecane accounts for 60 percent of the secretion. In the other phase, the major organoleptic compound is the trans form of 2-heptenal.
17740005	A cooling trend in the world's climate would have serious effects in the monsoon belts depending on whether or not the recent changes in snow and ice cover in the polar regions were responsible for the droughts in Africa and the failure of the monsoons over South Asia. The cooling and shrinking of the atmosphere at the higher latitudes is believed to have brought the subtropical anticyclones nearer to the tropical rainbelt and have caused a shifting of the monsoon belt. The regions that would be most severely affected by a continuation of the cooling trend to the year 2000 would be the higher latitudes (above 50 degrees) where spring wheat is grown and the warm band below 30 degrees latitude where rice is the principal grain crop. Weather variability is a much more important consideration in grain production than a cooling trend. Our highest yields are made when weather is near normal or slightly cooler than normal. It is when weather variables deviate greatly from normal that yields are lowest. Even if the weather does trend toward the coolness of a century ago yields will not be reduced significantly unless the weather becomes more varible.
17740006	Four major points emerge from this brief survey of the evidence: 1) The food crisis in 1974 seems to have been largely a result of distributional factors. The per capita availability of food grains from all sources, including imports, although below 1971 and 1972 levels, was probably above the average for 1963 to 1973. Comparison of available food supplies with estimated caloric and protein requirements of the population indicates that, on average, enough food was available to meet minimal requirements, with a small margin to spare. Supplies obtained through the government procurement and distribution program were especially short since the program depends primarily on the winter harvest, which failed badly in 1974. Thus, urban areas and some pockets of rural areas were badly hit. The poorest third of the population, who receive 20 to 30 percent less food than the national average even in normal times, were severely affected by higher prices, and there is little doubt that a sizable fraction of the population received inadequate diets. 2) The food supply for 1975 depends heavily on the winter harvest. If this is good, as it promises to be, widespread starvation, but not hunger, should be averted. Since the main shortfall was in the summer crop, the nature of the distribution problem will be different and shortages may be spread more evenly over the population. Nevertheless, the situation seems to forebode considerable hardship for the poorer segments of the population. 3) Food requirements will continue to grow over the foreseeable future as a result of rising population and incomes. India's agricultural resources are still relatively poorly exploited. In the short run, output can probably be increased substantially by increased fertilizer use on traditional as well as new varieties. In the longer run, increased production can be obtained from more intensive cropping, expansion of surface and groundwater irrigation, improved water management, and improved cultural practices brought about by more active agricultural research and appropriate land and pricing policies. These measures will need buttressing by an expanded food storage program if extreme hardships due to periodic drought are to be avoided. 4) India's farmers have shown considerable willingness to innovate under favorable conditions. The rate of adoption of HYV's in the first few years after their introduction was impressive. The same was true for tubewells and fertilizers. Nevertheless, many of the easy gains may already have been made. Fragmentary information on the quality of irrigation indicates that the acreage sown to wheat and rice HYV's may be approaching an upper limit in many areas because of the requirements of these varieties for a high degree of water control. Further gains will require more aggressive and coordinated policies for agricultural development. A major change in development strategy may be required if scarcities and hardships such as those currently being experienced are to be avoided in the future, and some hard political decisions on land reform and consolidation may have to be made. It is to be hoped that bold and imaginative agricultural policies will be followed, and that they will be accompanied by greater efforts to reduce population growth to manageable levels.
1774258	We report a set of oligonucleotide primers and amplification conditions for the polymerase chain reaction to detect the ctx operon of Vibrio cholerae. The results of this assay on strains of V. cholerae and related organisms were identical with those obtained by the DNA colony hybridization test with the polynucleotide probe. The detection limit of this system was 1 pg of chromosomal DNA or broth culture containing three viable cells. The polymerase chain reaction method could directly detect the ctx operon sequences in rice-water stool samples from patients with cholera.
17746642
17746912
17755569
17761427	Pyruvate decarboxylase (Pdc) and alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh) enzymes are responsible for the operation of ethanolic fermentation pathway that appears to correlate to an extent with anoxia tolerance in plants. This study was undertaken with the objective of (a) analysing the rice pdc gene family and (b) altering the efficacy of the ethanolic fermentation process, through production of transgenic rice plants over- and under-expressing pyruvate decarboxylase (employing Ospdc1 gene from rice) as well as over-expressing alcohol dehydrogenase (employing Ghadh2 gene from cotton) proteins. Correlations noted in this study between the pattern of expression of the Pdc alpha-subunit and Ospdc2 transcript as well as between the Pdc beta-subunit and Ospdc1 transcript suggest the possibility that alpha-subunit is encoded by Ospdc2 and that beta-subunit is encoded by Ospdc1. The fact that levels of Pdc beta-subunit were particularly high in pUH-sPdc1 (plasmid construct designed for over-expression of Ospdc1) seedlings while levels of beta-subunit levels were negligible or lower in pUH-asPdc1 (plasmid construct designed for under-expression of Ospdc1) seedlings also support these observations. Transgenics raised for over-expression of Pdc and Adh and under-expression of Pdc were confirmed for the transgene presence and effects by PCR, Southern blotting, Northern blotting, Western blotting and isozyme assays. Pdc and Adh over-expressing rice transgenics at early seedling stage under unstressed control growth conditions showed slight, consistent advantage in root vigour as compared to that of wild-type seedlings.
17761467	Using cereal crops as examples, we review the breeding for tolerance to the abiotic stresses of low nitrogen, drought, salinity and aluminium toxicity. All are already important abiotic stress factors that cause large and widespread yield reductions. Drought will increase in importance with climate change, the area of irrigated land that is salinized continues to increase, and the cost of inorganic N is set to rise. There is good potential for directly breeding for adaptation to low N while retaining an ability to respond to high N conditions. Breeding for drought and salinity tolerance have proven to be difficult, and the complex mechanisms of tolerance are reviewed. Marker-assisted selection for component traits of drought in rice and pearl millet and salinity tolerance in wheat has produced some positive results and the pyramiding of stable quantitative trait locuses controlling component traits may provide a solution. New genomic technologies promise to make progress for breeding tolerance to these two stresses through a more fundamental understanding of underlying processes and identification of the genes responsible. In wheat, there is a great potential of breeding genetic resistance for salinity and aluminium tolerance through the contributions of wild relatives.
17761472	Sub-Saharan Africa could have a shortfall of nearly 90Mt of cereals by the year 2025 if current agricultural practices are maintained. Biotechnology is one of the ways to improve agricultural production. Insect-resistant varieties of maize and cotton suitable for the subcontinent have been identified as already having a significant impact. Virus-resistant crops are under development. These include maize resistant to the African endemic maize streak virus and cassava resistant to African cassava mosaic virus. Parasitic weeds such as Striga attack the roots of crops such as maize, millet, sorghum and upland rice. Field trials in Kenya using a variety of maize resistant to a herbicide have proven very successful. Drought-tolerant crops are also under development as are improved varieties of local African crops such as bananas, cassava, sorghum and sweet potatoes.
17761690	Archaeological evidence has revealed that barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the oldest crops used by ancient farmers. Studies of the time and place of barley domestication may help in understanding ancient human civilization. The studies of domesticated genes in crops have uncovered the mechanisms which converted wild and unpromising wild species to the most important food for humans. In addition to archaeological studies, molecular studies are finding new insights into the process of domestication. Throughout the process of barley domestication human selection on wild species resulted in plants with more harvestable seeds. One of the remarkable changes during barley domestications was the appearance of six-rowed barley. The gene associated with this trait results in three times more seed per spike compared with ancestral wild barley. This increase in number of seed resulted in a major dichotomy in the evolution of barley. The identification of the six-rowed spike gene provided a framework for understanding how this character was evolved. Some important barley domestication genes have been discovered and many are currently being investigated. Identification of domestication genes in crops revealed that most of the drastic changes during domestication are the result of functional impairments in transcription factor genes, and creation of new functions is rare. Isolation of the six-rowed spike gene revealed that this trait was domesticated more than once in the domestication history of barley. Six-rowed barley is derived from two-rowed ancestral forms. Isolation of photoperiod-response genes in barley and rice revealed that different genes belonging to similar genetic networks partially control this trait.
17763725	With pot culture, this paper studied the biological characters of four low-P tolerant rice genotypes 99011, 580, 508 and 99112 and two low-P sensitive rice genotypes 99012 and 99056 on three P-deficient soils with different pH. The results indicated that on test soils, 580, 508 and 99112 had similar low-P tolerant ability. 99011 had poor low-P tolerant ability on alkaline soil, with its relative grain yield being 11.9% and 10.4% less than that on acid and neutral soil, respectively. 99012 showed a relatively stronger low-P tolerant ability on alkaline soil, and its relative grain yield was 19.6% higher than that on acid soil and 22.2% higher than that on neutral soil. 99056 showed a stronger low-P tolerant ability on acid soil, and its relative grain yield was 25.0% and 19.6% higher than that on alkaline and neutral soil, respectively. The effects of soil P level and soil type on rice grain yield mainly manifestied on the number of available spike. The P concentration and its relative value in flag leaves of 99011, 580, 508 and 99112 were significantly higher than those of 99012 and 99056, which might be another factor resulting in the stronger low-P tolerant ability of 99011, 580, 508 and 99112 than 99012 and 99056.
17763738	By using PCR-DGGE method, this paper studied the diversity and community structure of Pseudomonas populations in long-term petroleum- and heavy metals-contaminated agricultural soils in Northeast China. The results showed that the Shannon diversity index of Pseudomonas was significantly higher in petroleum- than in heavy metals-contaminated soils. The diversity of Pseudomonas in petroleum-contaminated soil was approached to that in clean soil but lower than that in polluted lowland rice soil, suggesting that contaminant type and cultivation mode were the main factors affecting the diversity of Pseudomonas in agricultural soils. The sequences of V6/V7 regions in 16S rRNA gene indicated that P. mendocina, P. stutzeri and P. aeruginosa were the dominant species in both petroleum- and heavy metals-contaminated soils, demonstrating that these three species were enriched under the stress of long-term pollution, which might correlate with the natural degradation of petroleum and the resistance of Pseudomonas to heavy metals.
17763771	The prediction performance of near infrared (NIR) spectra with different optical path-length for trace metal (potassium, calcium, magnesium, zincum, and iron) determination was investigated. NIR transmission spectra of Chinese rice wine were collected in rectangular quartz cuvette with different optical path lengths (1, 2, 5 and 10 mm) using Fourier transform near infrared (FT-NIR) spectrometer in the wavelength range of 800-2 500 nm with air as the reference. The reference data for potassium, calcium, magnesium, zinc, and iron were determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). Calibration models were developed by partial least squares (PLS) regression. The PLS models of NIR spectra group with 5 mm path length gave the best calibration result. The determination coefficients (r2) for potassium, calcium, magnesium, zincum, and iron were 0.93, 0.85, 0.93, 0.72, and 0.66, respectively, and the root mean square error of cross validation (RMSECV) for the five elements were 26.5, 35.6, 4.63, 0.26, and 0.64 mg x L-(-1), respectively, whereas the models established by NIR spectra group of 10 mm path-length was the worst. And the r2 values for potassium, calcium, magnesium, zincum, and iron were 0.61, 0.65, 0.63, 0.09, and 0.25, respectively. The results indicated that the optical path length has an influence on the NIR analysis results for trace metal determination in Chinese rice wine, and that the appropriate path length for the NIR analysis should be determined by comparison analysis.
17763868	L-Tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) and L-tyrosine decarboxylase (TYDC) belong to a family of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylases and catalyze the conversion of tryptophan and tyrosine into tryptamine and tyramine, respectively. The rice genome has been shown to contain seven TDC or TYDC-like genes. Three of these genes for which cDNA clones were available were characterized to assign their functions using heterologous expression in Escherichia coli and rice (Oryza sativa cv. Dongjin). The purified products of two of the genes were expressed in E. coli and exhibited TDC activity, whereas the remaining gene could not be expressed in E. coli. The recombinant TDC protein with the greatest TDC activity showed a K (m) of 0.69 mM for tryptophan, and its activity was not inhibited by phenylalanine or tyrosine, indicating a high level of substrate specificity toward tryptophan. The ectopic expression of the three cDNA clones in rice led to the abundant production of the products of the encoded enzymes, tyramine and tryptamine. The overproduction of TYDC resulted in stunted growth and a lack of seed production due to tyramine accumulation, which increased as the plant aged. In contrast, transgenic plants that produced TDC showed a normal phenotype and contained 25-fold and 11-fold higher serotonin in the leaves and seeds, respectively, than the wild-type plants. The overproduction of either tyramine or serotonin was not strongly related to the enhanced synthesis of tyramine or serotonin derivatives, such as feruloyltyramine and feruloylserotonin, which are secondary metabolites that act as phytoalexins in plants.
17764161	The main purpose of this paper is to report the high-power laser ionization-dissociation of CH(4) at various femtosecond (fs) laser intensities (from 1 x 10(14) W/cm(2) to 2 x 10(15) W/cm(2)) with a laser pulse duration of 48 fs. The generalized molecular Keldysh theory has been applied to calculate the ionization yields for CH(4)+ and CH(4)++. Outside the influence of the fs intense laser, we propose to calculate the mass spectra due to the decomposition of CH(4)+ and CH(4)++, using the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. The agreement between the experimental mass spectra and calculated mass spectra seems to be reasonable.
17764519	Cleistogamy is an efficient strategy for preventing gene flow from genetically modified (GM) crops. We identified a cleistogamous mutant of rice harbouring a missense mutation (the 45th residue isoleucine to threonine; I45T) in the class-B MADS-box gene SUPERWOMAN1 (SPW1), which specifies the identities of lodicules (equivalent to petals) and stamens. In the mutant, spw1-cls, the stamens are normal, but the lodicules are transformed homeotically to lodicule-glume mosaic organs, thereby engendering cleistogamy. Since this mutation does not affect other agronomic traits, it can be used in crosses to produce transgenic lines that do not cause environmental perturbation. Molecular analysis revealed that the reduced heterodimerization ability of SPW1(I45T) with its counterpart class-B proteins OsMADS2 and OsMADS4 caused altered lodicule identity. spw1-cls is the first useful mutant for practical gene containment in GM rice. Cleistogamy is possible in many cereals by engineering class-B floral homeotic genes and thereby inducing lodicule identity changes.
17764595	Although many epidemiological studies have examined the association of dietary glycaemic index (GI) and glycaemic load (GL) with health outcomes, information on the reproducibility and relative validity of these variables estimated from dietary questionnaires is extremely limited. We examined the reproducibility and relative validity of dietary GI and GL assessed with a self-administered diet-history questionnaire (DHQ) in adult Japanese. A total of ninety-two Japanese women and ninety-two Japanese men aged 31-76 years completed the DHQ (assessing diet during the preceding month) and 4 d dietary records (DR) in each season over a 1-year period (DHQ1-4 and DR1-4, respectively) and the DHQ at 1 year after completing DHQ1 (DHQ5). We used intraclass correlations between DHQ1 and DHQ5 to assess reproducibility, and Pearson correlations between the mean of DR1-4 and mean of DHQ1-4 and between the mean of DR1-4 and DHQ1 to assess relative validity. Reproducibility correlations for dietary GI and GL were 0.57 and 0.69 among women and 0.65 and 0.58 among men, respectively. Validity correlations for dietary GI and GL assessed by DHQ1-4 were 0.72 and 0.66 among women and 0.65 and 0.71 among men, respectively. Corresponding correlations for DHQ1 were 0.53 and 0.58 among women and 0.57 and 0.60 among men, respectively. White rice was the major contributor to GI and GL in both methods (49-64 %). These data indicate reasonable reproducibility and relative validity of dietary GI and GL assessed by a DHQ for Japanese adults, whose dietary GI and GL are primarily determined by the GI of white rice.
17764719	Resistance to fenitrothion and enzyme activities associated with the toxicity and metabolism of organophosphorus insecticides were measured in three genetically unique Daphnia magna clones collected from rice fields of Delta del Ebro (NE Spain) during the growing season and a lab sensitive clone. The studied clones showed up to sixfold differences in resistance to fenitrothion. The lack of correlation between in vitro sensitivity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) to fenitrooxon and resistance to fenitrothion indicated that insensitivity of AChE to the most active oxon metabolite was not involved in the observed differences in resistance. Inhibition of mixed- function oxidases (MFOs) by piperonyl butoxide (PBO) increased the tolerance to fenitrothion by almost 20-fold in all clones without altering their relative ranking of resistance. Conversely, when exposed to fenitrooxon, the studied clones showed similar levels of tolerance, thus indicating that clonal differences in the conversion of fenitrothion to fenitrooxon by MFOs were involved in the observed resistance patterns. Despite that resistant clones showed over 1.5 higher activities of carboxilesterase (CbE) than sensitive ones, toxicity tests with 2-(O-cresyl)-4H-1,3,2-benzodioxaphosphorin-2 oxide, which is a specific inhibitor of these enzymes, evidenced that this system only contributed marginally to the observed clonal differences in tolerance. Glutathione-S-transferases activity (GST) varied across clones but not under exposure to fenitrothion, and was only related with tolerance levels in the field clones. In summary, our results indicate that MFO mediated differences on the bio-activation of the phosphorotionate OP pesticide to its active oxon metabolite contributed mostly in explaining the observed moderate levels of resistance, whereas the activities of CbE and GST had only a marginal role.
17765289	A dynamic aquatic model (DynA model) was previously developed to predict the fate of a chemical in aquatic scenarios characterized by daily or periodic changes in several input parameters. DynA model is here calibrated with data obtained from the literature in specific unsteady state scenarios, such as those of rice fields. The results obtained for two herbicides (cinosulfuron and pretilachlor) in rice paddy scenarios revealed the capability of the model to accurately predict water and sediment concentrations, as shown by some statistical indicators. Modelling efficiency (EF) values of 0.86-0.99 for the water compartment and of 0.77-0.84 for sediment show the good agreement between predicted and measured concentrations. An "external validation" was performed using measured data for a different herbicide (molinate) applied in a Portuguese paddy rice scenario. A sensitivity analysis for this volatile chemical revealed the influence of some climatic parameters (e.g. temperature) to the model outcomes, such as water and sediment concentrations. This confirmed the capability of DynA model as an efficient tool for the pesticide risk assessment in dynamic scenarios.
17765359	Treatment with the cutin monomer 16-hydroxypalmitic acid (HPA), a major component of cutin, elicited the synthesis of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in rice leaves and induced the expression of the lipid transfer protein gene OsLTP5. Treatment with HPA also induced expression of OsLTP1, OsLTP2, and the pathogen-related PR-10 genes to a lesser extent. The OsLTP5 transcript was expressed prominently in stems and flowers, but was barely detectable in leaves. Expression of OsLTP5 was induced in shoots in response to ABA and salicylic acid. It is proposed that HPA is perceived by rice as a signal, inducing defense reactions.
17766066	A longitudinal study was performed to investigate the associations of exposure to environmental cadmium (Cd) with cause-specific mortality and cancer incidence rates. The study population comprised 275 adults living in a Cd-polluted area, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan. The follow-up period extended from 1982 to 2005 for the analysis of cancer mortality, and from 1985 to 2002 for the analysis of cancer incidence. In the study area, the daily Cd intake from foods had decreased after 1980-1983 because of the restoration of Cd-polluted rice fields. The mortality rate among those with urinary beta2-microglobulin (U-beta2M)>/=1000 microg/g creatinine was significantly higher than that of the Japanese population for death from causes other than cancer, but not for cancers (177 at the 95% confidence interval [CI] 94-303). From analysis within the Cd-polluted area, the age-adjusted rate ratio of cancer deaths associated with increased U-beta2M was 2.58 (95% CI 1.25-5.36). The incidence rate of cancer among those with U-beta2M>/=1000 microg/g creatinine was 1.38 (95% CI 0.69-2.47) times that of the regional reference rate. Within the Cd-polluted area, the age-adjusted rate ratio of developing cancer associated with high U-beta2M was 1.79 (95% CI 0.84-3.82). In summary, there was a significant association between U-beta2M excretion and cancer mortality. However, there was neither a significantly increased standardized incidence ratio of cancer, nor significant relationship between U-beta2M and cancer incidence rate, though the point estimates were higher than unity. Continued follow-up and investigation of a larger cohort may be required before drawing a conclusion for the association between exposure to environmental Cd and cancer risk.
17766312	Cultivated bananas and plantains are giant herbaceous plants within the genus Musa. They are both sterile and parthenocarpic so the fruit develops without seed. The cultivated hybrids and species are mostly triploid (2n = 3x = 33; a few are diploid or tetraploid), and most have been propagated from mutants found in the wild. With a production of 100 million tons annually, banana is a staple food across the Asian, African and American tropics, with the 15 % that is exported being important to many economies. There are well over a thousand domesticated Musa cultivars and their genetic diversity is high, indicating multiple origins from different wild hybrids between two principle ancestral species. However, the difficulty of genetics and sterility of the crop has meant that the development of new varieties through hybridization, mutation or transformation was not very successful in the 20th century. Knowledge of structural and functional genomics and genes, reproductive physiology, cytogenetics, and comparative genomics with rice, Arabidopsis and other model species has increased our understanding of Musa and its diversity enormously. There are major challenges to banana production from virulent diseases, abiotic stresses and new demands for sustainability, quality, transport and yield. Within the genepool of cultivars and wild species there are genetic resistances to many stresses. Genomic approaches are now rapidly advancing in Musa and have the prospect of helping enable banana to maintain and increase its importance as a staple food and cash crop through integration of genetical, evolutionary and structural data, allowing targeted breeding, transformation and efficient use of Musa biodiversity in the future.
17766403	Sugars repress alpha-amylase expression in germinating embryos and cell cultures of rice (Oryza sativa) through a sugar response complex (SRC) in alpha-amylase gene promoters and its interacting transcription factor MYBS1. The Snf1 protein kinase is required for the derepression of glucose-repressible genes in yeast. In this study, we explored the role of the yeast Snf1 ortholog in rice, SnRK1, in sugar signaling and plant growth. Rice embryo transient expression assays indicated that SnRK1A and SnRK1B act upstream and relieve glucose repression of MYBS1 and alphaAmy3 SRC promoters. Both SnRK1s contain N-terminal kinase domains serving as activators and C-terminal regulatory domains as dominant negative regulators of SRC. The accumulation and activity of SnRK1A was regulated by sugars posttranscriptionally, and SnRK1A relieved glucose repression specifically through the TA box in SRC. A transgenic RNA interference approach indicated that SnRK1A is also necessary for the activation of MYBS1 and alphaAmy3 expression under glucose starvation. Two mutants of SnRK1s, snrk1a and snrk1b, were obtained, and the functions of both SnRK1s were further studied. Our studies demonstrated that SnRK1A is an important intermediate in the sugar signaling cascade, functioning upstream from the interaction between MYBS1 and alphaAmy3 SRC and playing a key role in regulating seed germination and seedling growth in rice.
17766822	This paper reviews progress in phytoextraction of soil elements and illustrates the key role of hyperaccumulator plant species in useful phytoextraction technologies. Much research has focused on elements which are not practically phytoextracted (Pb); on addition of chelating agents which cause unacceptable contaminant leaching and are cost prohibitive; and on plant species which offer no useful phytoextraction capability (e.g., Brassica juncea Czern). Nickel phytoextraction by Alyssum hyperaccumulator species, which have been developed into a commercial phytomining technology, is discussed in more detail. Nickel is ultimately accumulated in vacuoles of leaf epidermal cells which prevents metal toxicity and provides defense against some insect predators and plant diseases. Constitutive up-regulation of trans-membrane element transporters appears to be the key process that allows these plants to achieve hyperaccumulation. Cadmium phytoextraction is needed for rice soils contaminated by mine wastes and smelter emissions with 100-fold more soil Zn than Cd. Although many plant species can accumulate high levels of Cd in the absence of Zn, when Cd/Zn>100, only Thlaspi caerulescens from southern France has demonstrated the ability to phytoextract useful amounts of Cd. Production of element-enriched biomass with value as ore or fertilizer or improved food (Se) or feed supplement may offset costs of phytoextraction crop production. Transgenic phytoextraction plants have been achieved for Hg, but not for other elements. Although several researchers have been attempting to clone all genes required for effective hyperaccumulation of several elements, success appears years away; such demonstrations will be needed to prove we have identified all necessary processes in hyperaccumulation.
17768306	The phylogeny based on the homeodomain (HD) amino acid sequence of the WOX (WUSCHEL-related homeobox gene family) was established in the 3 major radiations of the Poaceae family: Pooideae (Brachypodium distachyon), Bambusoideae (Oryza sativa), and Panicoideae (Zea mays). The genomes of all 3 grasses contain an ancient duplication in the WOX3 branch, and the cellular expression patterns in maize and rice indicate subfunctionalization of paralogues during leaf development, which may relate to the architecture of the grass leaf and the encircling of the stem. The use of maize WOX gene family members as molecular markers in maize embryo development for the first time allowed us to visualize cellular decisions in the maize proembryo, including specification of the shoot/root axis at an oblique angle to the apical-basal polarity of the zygote. All molecular marker data are compatible with the conclusion that the embryonic shoot/root axis comprises a discrete domain from early proembryo stages onward. Novel cell fates of the shoot and the root are acquired within this distinct morphogenic axis domain, which elongates and thus separates the shoot apical meristem and root apical meristem (RAM) anlagen in the maize embryo.
17768506	Irrigated agriculture exposes rural people to health risks associated with vector-borne diseases and pesticides used in agriculture and for public health protection. Most developing countries lack collaboration between the agricultural and health sectors to jointly address these problems. We present an evaluation of a project that uses the "farmer field school" method to teach farmers how to manage vector-borne diseases and how to improve rice yields. Teaching farmers about these two concepts together is known as "integrated pest and vector management". An intersectoral project targeting rice irrigation systems in Sri Lanka. Project partners developed a new curriculum for the field school that included a component on vector-borne diseases. Rice farmers in intervention villages who graduated from the field school took vector-control actions as well as improving environmental sanitation and their personal protection measures against disease transmission. They also reduced their use of agricultural pesticides, especially insecticides. The intervention motivated and enabled rural people to take part in vector-management activities and to reduce several environmental health risks. There is scope for expanding the curriculum to include information on the harmful effects of pesticides on human health and to address other public health concerns. Benefits of this approach for community-based health programmes have not yet been optimally assessed. Also, the institutional basis of the integrated management approach needs to be broadened so that people from a wider range of organizations take part. A monitoring and evaluation system needs to be established to measure the performance of integrated management initiatives.
17769310
17769370	Antigenically similar chitin-binding lectins are present in the embryos of wheat, barley, and rye, members of the Triticeae tribe of the grass family (Gramineae). However, the lectins display different localization patterns in these embryos. Lectin is absent from the coleoptile of barley but is present in the outer surface cells of this organ in wheat and in both inner and outer surface cells of rye coleoptiles. All three cereals contain lectin at the periphery of embryonic roots. Similar lectins were not detected in oats and pearl millet, members of other tribes of the Gramineae. Rice, a species only distantty related to wheat, contains a lectin that is antigenically similar to the other cereal lectins and located at the periphery of embryonic roots and throughut the coleoptile.
17769992	Rice blast disease is caused by a fungus that attacks all above-ground parts of the rice plant. In a study of the means by which the fungus attaches to the hydrophobic rice leaf surface, it was found that spores(conidia) of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea have a mechanism for immediate and persistent attachment to various surfaces, including Teflon. This attachment occurs at the spore apex and is blocked by the addition of the lectin concanavalin A. Microscopy of hydrated conidia shows that a spore tip mucilage that binds concanavalin A is expelled specifically from the conidial apex before germ tube emergence. Ultrastructural analysis of dry conidia shows a large periplasmic deposit, presumably spore tip mucilage, at the apex. The results indicate a novel mechanism for the attachment of phytopathogenic fungal spores to a plant surface.
17770013
17770329	Until recently, gene transfer in plants was achieved only by sexual hybridization. Now, in addition, plant genetic manipulation, with the use of both recombinant DNA and protoplast fusion technology, is being applied to an increasing range of plants. The soil bacterium Agrobacterium tumefaciens, with its associated plasmid, is used as a vector for introducing DNA into the genomes of dicotyledonous plants, but it has not proved suitable for cereals. Instead, the direct uptake of plasmid DNA into cereal protoplasts is being used for the transformation of cells in rice, wheat, and maize. Transformation efficiencies, in some cases, are becoming comparable to those obtained in dicotyledons with Agrobacterium. In rice it is now possible to regenerate efficiently whole plants from protoplasts, and this capability may soon be extended to the other cereals. By means of direct interaction of cereal protoplasts with plasmids, coupled with improved procedures for the regeneration of plants from their protoplasts, gene transfer in the cereals is becoming established at the frontiers of recombinant DNA technology.
17771756	Nitrate labeled with (13)N ((13)NO(3)(-)) was produced in a cyclotron by the (16)O(p, alpha)(13)N reaction with protons having energies of 14.5 million electron volts. The (13)NO(3)(-) was used as a tracer for direct quantitative measurements of denitrification rates in soils from flooded rice fields. The (13)N technique provides a new tracer method for the measurement of denitrification rates in natural systems over short time intervals, without changing the concentration of NO(3)(-)in the system.
17771902
1777386	A total of 100 samples of various foods comprising of 10 samples each of garri (Manihot utilis Pohl), beans (Phaseolus lunatus), yam flour (Dioscorea rotundata), cassava flour (Manihot esculentum), melon (Citrulus lunatus), onion (Allium cepa), rice (Oryza sativa), plantain (Musa paradisiaca), red pepper (Capsicum annuum L., Solanaceae) and eggs were screened for the presence of aflatoxins. Fifty percent of yam flour; 40% of cassava flour; 30% of garri; 20% of beans and melon and 10% of rice yielded aflatoxin. The implications of this incidence of aflatoxin in common foodstuff found in this community is discussed.
17774511	A catalase-like activity surrounding the root tips of rice plants favors the presence of Beggiatoa, an organism capable of oxidizing the hydrogen sulfide which is toxic to rice and is found in paddy soil conditions. Beggiatoa has now been isolated from rice field soil. A mutually favorable interaction between rice and this bacterium is suggested.
1777931	A rice bran polysaccharide designated RON was subjected either to partial hydrolysis with formic acid or to partial degradation by ultrasonic irradiation. A significant change in the molecular size was also observed during simple chromatography of RON on a strongly acidic ion exchange resin, although the apparent molecular weight of RON had been assumed to be more than 1 x 10(6) daltons (Da). This fact indicates that RON exists as molecular aggregates, presumably mediated by metal cations. Degradation products with average molecular weights above ca. 1 x 10(4) Da which were obtained by any of the three methods still retained the following activities of RON: in vivo antitumor activity against Meth-A fibrosarcoma in mice by oral administration, and in vitro macrophage stimulatory effects to induce tumoricidal activity and interleukin 1 production. This molecular size was proven to be the minimum requisite for these activities because smaller fragments were scarcely active. The aggregation was characteristic of RON but not essential for its antitumor activity because definite, though slightly reduced, activity was exhibited even by the smaller fragments obtained after the ion exchange resin treatment.
17784263
17784289	A low-input cropping system has been developed at Yurimaguas, Peru, to serve as a transition technology between shifting and continuous cultivation for acid soils of the humid tropics. Principal features are slash-and-burn clearing, rotation of acid-tolerant upland rice and cowpea cultivars, maximum residue return, no tillage, and no lime or fertilizer applications. When yields decline as a result of increasing weed pressure and nutrient deficiencies, a kudzu fallow is grown for 1 year. Subsequent options include fertilizer-based continuous cultivation, pastures, or agroforestry. The system preserves some agroecosystem diversity and contributes toward a sustainable level of production and income for farmers in humid tropical regions.
17786431	Because limes have been used as important fertilizers to neutralize acidified farmland in Japan, our interest in this study was focused on the effect of calcium ion on the biodegradation of octylphenol polyethoxylates (OPEOn) by a pure culture of Pseudomonas putida S5 isolated from a rice paddy field in Japan. In the presence of calcium ion, P. putida S5 accelerated the formation of octylphenol oligoethoxy carboxylates (OPECn) rather than that of octylphenol oligoethoxylates under an aerobic condition, indicating that more soluble biodegradates with terminal carboxyl group may liquate out easily to surface and ground water rather than more hydrophobic biodegradates with shorter ethylene oxide residues. Therefore, the androgen receptor (AR) activity of their degradation products was characterized using an in vitro reporter gene assay. As ethylene oxide chain length decreased, the biodegradates, OPEOn (n < 3), increased their AR antagonist activity. However, OPECn (n < 3) were unable to determine their AR activity because of their cytotoxicity in our reporter gene assay system.
17788383	About 60 percent of strontium-90 contained in polished rice in 1960 is due to root absorption from soil. The amount of cesium-137 absorbed by rice plants directly from fallout during the period between ear-shooting and harvest is assumed to be about 20 percent of total cesium-137 in the plant.
17790176
17790236	Mass flow of air to the submerged parts of the plant constitutes the major mechanism of aeration in partially submerged rice. It is proposed that the flow of air results from reduction of pressure in the air-conducting system of the plant caused by consumption of oxygen and solubilization of respiratory carbon dioxide in the surrounding water.
17790255	The use of wild rice during the late prehistoric period is suggested by charred wild rice grains associated with fire hearths and threshing pits in historically known, specialized harvesting sites. Similar wild rice grains imbedded in the clay lining of specialized threshing pits called "jig pots" confirms the prehistoric use.
1779316	The study was undertaken to better understand the role of total gut transit time (TGTT) on the absorption of nutrients in patients with persistent diarrhea. Twenty-six boys aged 3-18 months with persistent diarrhea and 25 age-matched healthy controls were studied. Their TGTT was measured with charcoal markers during their treatment with a diet made up with rice powder soya oil, glucose, and egg white. Coefficients of absorption of nutrients were estimated in a 72-h balance study. The median TGTTs in patients and controls were 5 and 11.6 h, respectively. Among the patients, the TGT correlated significantly with absorption of total energy (p less than 0.01), absorption of fat (p less than 0.01), stool frequency (p less than 0.01), and stool weight during the 1st 24 h (p less than 0.01). Coefficients of absorption of energy, fat, and carbohydrate were significantly different among the patients above or below the median transit time (5 h). None of these relationships was present among the healthy controls. The TGTT was negatively associated with the duration of clinical recovery. The results of this study suggested that intestinal transit time is an important factor for absorption of nutrients that may influence clinical recovery in patients with persistent diarrhea.
17793212
17795659
1779999	In Sri Lanka, rice is the main staple which is mostly processed into parboiled rice. The levels of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and aflatoxin G1 (AFG1) in parboiled and raw milled rice collected from major rice producing areas and rice consuming townships were estimated. In almost all the samples of parboiled rice examined, the AFB1 and AFG1 contents were significantly higher than in raw milled rice. The highest AFB1 content was 185 micrograms/kg and AFG1 content 963 micrograms/kg. These samples were collected from a major rice producing/milling district where the mean relative humidity is 78% and mean annual temperature 27 degrees C which is the highest amongst the rice growing areas in Sri Lanka. Raw rice was either free of aflatoxins or when toxins were detected, they occurred in less than 10% of the samples. The frequency of occurrence of surface fungal flora (Aspergillus/Penicillium) and aflatoxin content in market samples was closely related. Brownish or greenish moldly rice samples with fermented odour contained over 1000 micrograms/kg of AFB1.
17800192
17802389	It has been shown that trophozoites of balantidia from the pig are normal in appearance and reactions when the medium is cooled to room temperature. They may live at room temperature for ten days. Trophozoites that infect the pig may pass through the stomach of the guinea-pig and reach the cecum, where they are normal after eighteen hours. Trophozoites are frequently passed in feces by the pig but cyst production is irregular and determined by unknown factors as in monkeys, guinea-pigs and man. The fluid of pig feces from the cecum is slightly hypertonic to blood serum. The method of Barret and Yarbrough for the cultivation of Balantidium coli has been found practicable for Balantidium from the pig and guinea-pig. The addition of rice starch improves the medium and Ringer's solution without dextrose was found more suitable than 0.5 per cent. NaCl solution. Loeffler's beef blood serum may be substituted for human serum or horse serum. H(2)S appears non-toxic to Balantidium from the pig when passed into culture tubes.
17804429	Transgenic rice plants overexpressing a mutant rice gene for anthranilate synthase alpha subunit (OASA1D) accumulate large amounts of free tryptophan (Trp) with few adverse effects on the phenotype, except for poor germination and weak seedling growth. Metabolic profiling of 8-d-old seedlings of Nipponbare and two high-Trp lines, HW1 and HW5, by high performance liquid chromatography-photo diode array (HPLC-PDA) confirmed that, relative to Nipponbare, only the peak attributed to Trp was significantly changed in the profiles of the OASA1D lines. More detailed and targeted analysis using HPLC coupled with tandem mass spectrometry revealed that the OASA1D lines had higher levels of anthranilate, tryptamine, and serotonin than Nipponbare, but these metabolites were at much lower levels than free Trp. The levels of phenylalanine (Phe) and tyrosine (Tyr) were not affected by the overproduction of Trp. Transcriptomic analysis by microarray validated by quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed that at least 12 out of 21 500 genes showed significant differential expression among genotypes. Except for the OASA1D transgene and a putative IAA beta-glucosyltransferase, these were not related to Trp metabolism. Most importantly, the overexpression of the OASA1D and the consequent accumulation of Trp in these lines had little effect on the overall transcriptome, consistent with the minimal effects on growth and the metabolome. Integrated analysis of the metabolome and transcriptome of these OASA1D transgenic lines indicates that the over-accumulation of free Trp may be partly due to the low activity of Trp decarboxylase or other metabolic genes that directly utilize Trp as a substrate.
17804480	The responses of chlorophyll fluorescence, gas exchange rate and Rubisco activation state to temperature were examined in transgenic rice plants with 130 and 35% of the wild-type (WT) Rubisco content by transformation with rbcS cDNA in sense and antisense orientations, respectively. Although the optimal temperatures of PSII quantum efficiency and CO(2) assimilation were found to be between 25 and 32 degrees C, the maximal activation state of Rubisco was found to be between 16 and 20 degrees C in all genotypes. The Rubisco flux control coefficient was also the highest between 16 and 20 degrees C in the WT and antisense lines [>0.88 at an intercellular CO(2) pressure (Ci) of 28 Pa]. Gross photosynthesis at Ci = 28 Pa per Rubisco content in the WT between 12 and 20 degrees C was close to that of the antisense lines where high Rubisco control is present. Thus, Rubisco activity most strongly limited photosynthesis at cool temperatures. These results indicated that a selective enhancement of Rubisco content can enhance photosynthesis at cool temperatures, but in the sense line with enhanced Rubisco content Pi regeneration limitation occurred. Above 20 degrees C, the Rubisco flux control coefficient declined. This decline was associated with a decline in Rubisco activation. The activation state of Rubisco measured at each temperature decreased with increasing Rubisco content, and the slope of activation to Rubisco content was independent of temperature. We discuss the possibility that the decline in Rubisco activation at intermediate and high temperatures is part of a regulated response to a limitation in other photosynthetic processes.
17804793	The shoot apical meristem (SAM) is a group of stem cells that are responsible for plant development. Mutations in rice SHOOTLESS2 (SHL2), SHL4/SHOOT ORGANIZATION2 (SHO2), and SHO1 cause complete deletion or abnormal formation of the SAM. In this study we showed that defects in SAM formation in shl mutants are associated with the loss of expression of the homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-ZIPIII) family genes. Rice SHL2, SHL4/SHO2, and SHO1 encoded orthologues of Arabidopsis RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 6, ARGONAUTE (AGO) 7, and DICER-like 4, respectively, whose mutations affect leaf development through the trans-acting siRNA (ta-siRNA) pathway. This suggested that the ta-siRNA pathway regulates the critical step of SAM formation during rice embryogenesis. The gain-of-function experiment by the ectopic expression of SHL4 resulted in reduced accumulation of an microRNA, miR166, and partial adaxialization of leaves, supporting a role for the ta-siRNA pathway in the maintenance of leaf polarity as previously reported in maize. Analysis of the spatiotemporal expression patterns of HD-ZIPIII and miR166 in wild-type and shl mutant embryos suggested that the loss of HD-ZIPIII expression in the SAM region of the developing embryo is the result of ectopic expression of miR166. Our analysis of shl mutants demonstrated that HD-ZIPIII expression regulated by miR166 is sensitive to the ta-siRNA pathway during SAM formation in rice embryogenesis.
17805575	Peroxidase (POX) genes consist of a large gene family possibly contributing to self-defense, however constitutive and stress-induced expression patterns of individual gene were poorly understood in rice. We studied here the characteristic expression of two representative rice POX genes, R2329 and R2184, which are blast fungus-inducible (Sasaki et al. in Plant Cell Physiol 45:1442-1452, 2004). Basal GUS activity in R2329 promoter::GUS rice plants was 100-fold higher than that in R2184 promoter::GUS plants, and these levels reflected the transcript levels monitored by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. R2329 promoter was activated by blast fungus-infection and wounding, and R2184 promoter was activated by the fungal-infection and methyl jasmonate (MeJA)-treatment. By histochemical GUS staining analysis, constitutive R2329 and R2184 expression was commonly found in vascular bundle and exodermis in leaves and roots, while the precise expression profile was characteristic. In blast fungus inoculated R2329 promoter::GUS leaves, GUS staining was induced just around fungus-induced local lesions. Analysis of the 5' deleted promoters suggests the presence of many kinds of stress-responsive elements in the regions between -1798 and -748 of R2329 promoter and between -1975 and -548 of R2184 promoter. These results revealed the stress-responsive characteristics of R2329 and R2184 promoters, and indicated the possible use for generation of useful transgenic plants.
17806099	Stilbenes are bioactive compounds that show beneficial effects for humans, such as anti-tumor activity and survival improvement. Resveratrol, a representative of stilbenes and showing various health-improving activities, is rapidly metabolized in humans, and modified resveratrols are therefore desired as anti-cancer drugs and dietary polyphenols. An Escherichia coli system, in which an artificial stilbene biosynthetic pathway, including steps of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, 4-coumarate:CoA ligase, and stilbene synthase, was reconstructed, produced stilbenes in high yields: resveratrol from tyrosine and pinosylvin from phenylalanine. To incorporate a stilbene methyltransferase gene into this E. coli system, cDNA of Os08g06100 in Oryza sativa was expressed and its O-methylating activity toward stilbenes was confirmed. Incorporation of the pinosylvin methyltransferase (OsPMT) gene into the pathway established in E. coli led to production of mono- and di-methylated stilbenes. Furthermore, the OsPMT gene turned out to be useful in production of unnatural stilbene methyl ethers due to its rather relaxed substrate specificity; various carboxylic acids supplemented as precursors, such as p-fluorocinnamic acid, 3-(2-furyl)acrylic acid, 3-(2-thienyl)acrylic acid, and 3-(3-pyridyl)acrylic acid, to the E. coli system carrying the steps of 4-coumarate:CoA ligase, stilbene synthase, and OsPMT were converted to stilbene dimethyl ethers with the corresponding carboxylic moiety.
17811308	I have listed some of the ways in which the lowland tropics are not such a warm and wonderful place for the farmer, some of the reasons why it may be unreasonable to expect him to cope with the problems, and some of the ways in which the temperate zones make his task more difficult. The tropics are very close to being a tragedy of the commons on a global scale (69, 103), and it is the temperate zone's shepherds and sheep who are among the greatest offenders (31). Given that the temperate zones have some limited amount of resources with which they are willing to repay the tropics, how can these resources best be spent? The first answer, without doubt, is education, and the incorporation of what is already known about the tropics into that education. Second should be the generation of secure psychological and physical resources for governments that show they are enthusiastic about the development of an SYTA. Third should be support of intensive research needed to generate the set of site-specific rules for specific, clearly identified SYTA's. The subject matter of youths' cultural programming is presumably determined by what they will need during the rest of their lives. A major component of this programming should be the teaching of the socioeconomic rules of a sustained-yield, nonexpanding economy, tuned to the concept of living within the carrying capacity of the country's or region's resources. Incorporating such a process into tropical school systems will cause a major upheaval, if for no other reason than that it will involve an evaluation of the country's resources, what standard of living is to be accepted by those living on them, and who is presently harvesting them. Of even greater impact, it will have to evaluate resources in terms of their ability to raise the standard of living by Y amount for X proportion of the people in the region, rather than in terms of their cash value on the world market. For such a change to be technologically successful, it will require a great deal of pantropical information exchange. This information exchange will cost a great deal of resource, not only in travel funds and support of on-site study, but in insurance policies for the countries that are willing to take the risk of trying to change from an exploitative agroecosystem to an SYTA. For such an experiment to be sociologically successful, it will require a complete change in tropical educational systems, from emphasizing descriptions of events as they now stand, to emphasizing analysis of why things happen the way they do. This will also be very expensive, not only in retreading the technology and mind-sets of current teaching programs, but in gathering the facts on why the tropics have met their current fate. There is a surfeit of biological and agricultural reports dealing with ecological experiments and generalities which suggest that such and such will be the outcome if such and such form of resource harvest is attempted. It is clear that human desiderata regarding a particular site are often radically different from the needs of the "average" wild animals and plants that formed the basis for such experiments and generalities. A finely tuned SYTA will come close to providing a unique solution for each region. The generalities that will rule it are highly stochastic. The more tropical the region, the more evenly weighted the suboutcomes will be, and thus the more likely each region will be to have a unique overall outcome. For example, it is easy to imagine four different parts of the tropics, each with the same kind of soil and the same climate, with four different, successful SYTA's, one based on paddy rice, one on shelterwood forestry, one on tourism, and one on shifting maize culture. A regional experiment station working holistically toward an SYTA is potentially one of the best solutions available. As currently structured, however, almost all tropical experiment stations are inadequate for such a mission. Most commonly they are structured around a single export crop such as coffee, sugar, rubber, cotton, cacao, or tea. A major portion of their budgets comes directly or indirectly from the industry concerned. This industry can hardly be expected to wish to see its production integrated with a sustained-yield system that charges real costs for its materials. When an experiment station is centered around a major food crop, such as rice or maize, the goal becomes one of maximizing production per acre rather than per unit of resource spent; this goal may often be translated into one of generating more people. More general experiment stations tend to be established in the most productive regions of the country and, therefore, receive the most funding. Such regions (islands, intermediate elevations, areas with severe dry seasons) need experiment stations the least because they can often be successfully farmed with only slightly modified temperate zone technologies and philosophies. The administrators of tropical experiment stations often regard their job as a hardship post and tend to orient their research toward the hand that feeds them, which is certainly not the farming communities in which they have been placed. The tropics do not need more hard cash for tractors; they need a program that will show when, where, and how hand care should be replaced with draft animals, and draft animals with tractors. The tropics do not need more randomly gathered, esoteric or applied agricultural research: they need a means to integrate what is already known into the process of developing SYTA's. The tropics do not need more food as much as a means of evaluating the resources they have and generating social systems that will maximize the standard of living possible with those resources, whatever the size. The tropics need a realistic set of expectations.
17811781
17813198	Ten-meter radar observations of the sea have been used to study second-order interactions between waves in electromagnetic scattering from the sea. Techniques of coherent, pulsed radar provide echo frequency spectra from several range intervals. The echo spectra are resolved with an analysis window of a few millihertz. These spectra show a clear second-order echo continuum which appears as sidebands about the first-order Bragg scattering lines. Up to one-half of the total echo power has been observed in these sidebands. The principal characteristics of these sidebands vary with time, apparently in response to the sea state. The form of the echo spectra is consistent with the results of perturbation theory computations based on Rice's method.
17818614
17819134	Technology has been developed which permits continuous production of annual crops in some of the acid, infertile soils of the Amazon Basin. Studies in Yurimaguas, Peru, show that three grain crops can be produced annually with appropriate fertilizer inputs. Twenty-one crops have been harvested during the past 8(1/2) years in the same field, with an average annual production of 7.8 tons of grain per hectare. Soil properties are improving with continuous cultivation. The technology has been validated by local farmers, who normally practice shifting cultivation. Economic interpretations indicate large increases in annual family farm income and a high return on the investment of chemical inputs. Other promising land use alternatives include low-input crop production systems, paddy rice production in fertile alluvial soils, and pastures or agroforestry in rolling areas. Stable, continuous food crop production is an attractive alternative to shifting cultivation in humid tropical regions experiencing severe demographic pressures. For each hectare of land managed in a highly productive manner, there may be less need for clearing additional tropical forests to meet food demands.
1781934	The chemical forms of selenium were determined in maize grown near Yutangba Village and in rice grown near Haubei village, Exi Prefecture, Enshi county of Hubei Province, China. The maize sample contained 18 ppm and the rice samples an average of 3.6 ppm selenium. After they were ground to obtain a fine flour, this was acid hydrolyzed with hydrochloric acid in an inert atmosphere and the hydrolyzates chromatographed on columns of Dionex DC6A resin. The results indicate that the majority of the selenium is present as selenomethionine in both rice and corn.
17821643	Independent domestication of sorghum, rice, and maize involved convergent selection for large seeds, reduced disarticulation of the mature inflorescence, and daylength-insensitive flowering. These similar phenotypes are largely determined by a small number of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that correspond closely in the three taxa. The correspondence of these QTLs transcends 65 million years of reproductive isolation. This finding supports models of quantitative inheritance that invoke relatively few genes, obviates difficulties in map-based cloning of QTLs, and impels the comparative mapping of complex pheno-types across large evolutionary distances, such as those that separate humans from rodents and domesticated mammals.
17822031	Rice bacterial leaf streak,caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola is a destructive bacterial disease in China. Single-gene resistance to X. oryzae pv. oryzicola has not been found in rice germplasm. A cloned non-host gene from maize with resistance to bacterial leaf streak, Rxo1, was transferred into four Chinese rice varieties through an Agrobacterium-mediated system, including Zhonghua11, 9804, C418 and Minghui86. PCR and Southern analysis of the transgenic plants revealed the integration of the Rxo1 gene into the rice genomes. The integrated Rxo1 was stably inherited, and segregated in a 3:1 (Resistance:Susceptible) ratio in the selfed T1 generations derived from some T0 plants, indicating that Rxo1 inherited as a dominate gene in rice. Transgenic T0 plants and PCR-positive T1 plants were resistant to X. oryzae pv. oryzicola on the basis of artificial inoculation.
17822410	The root-knot nematode Meloidogyne graminicola is an obligate biotrophic parasite and a major pest of rice (Oryza sativa) for which resistant varieties are not currently available. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for partial resistance to M. graminicola were identified using a mapping population based on two rice varieties, Bala x Azucena. Experiments were carried out to investigate the interactions between M. graminicola and these two varieties in terms of nematode establishment, reproduction and effect on rice yield. Nematode establishment was also assessed in the mapping population. Meloidogyne graminicola consistently caused more galling and had higher reproductive success in Azucena than in Bala. M. graminicola did not significantly reduce yield in Bala, but caused a yield reduction of almost half in Azucena, suggesting that the partial resistance to nematode establishment was related to nematode tolerance. A total of six significant or putative QTLs for nematode tolerance were detected. For two of the QTLs detected, Azucena was the donor of the tolerance alleles, suggesting it may be possible to breed plants with greater tolerance than Bala.
17822944	Abiotic stresses increasingly curtail crop yield as a result of global climate change and scarcity of water and nutrients. One way to minimize the negative impact of these factors on yield is to manipulate root system architecture (RSA) towards a distribution of roots in the soil that optimizes water and nutrient uptake. It is now established that most of the genetic variation for RSA is driven by a suite of quantitative trait loci. As we discuss here, marker-assisted selection and quantitative trait loci cloning for RSA are underway, exploiting genomic resources, candidate genes and the knowledge gained from Arabidopsis, rice and other crops. Nonetheless, efficient and accurate phenotyping, modelling and collaboration with breeders remain important challenges, particularly when defining ideal RSA for different crops and target environments.
17823787	Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a large number of genes will enable estimation of the number of genes having different alleles in a population. In the present study, SNPs between 21 rice cultivars including 17 Japanese cultivars, one upland rice, and three indica cultivars were analyzed by PCR-RF-SSCP. PCR-RF-SSCP analysis was found to be a more efficient method for detecting SNPs than mismatch-cleavage analysis, though both PCR-RF-SSCP and mismatch-cleavage are useful for screening SNPs. The number of DNA fragments showing polymorphism between Japanese cultivars was 134 in the 1,036 genes analyzed. In 137 genes, 638 DNA polymorphisms were identified. Out of 52 genes having polymorphisms in the exons, one had a frame-shift mutation, three had polymorphism causing amino acid insertions or deletions, and 16 genes had missense polymorphisms. The number of genes having frame-shift mutations and missense polymorphisms between the 17 Japanese cultivars was estimated to be 41 and 677 on average, respectively, and those between japonica and indica to be 425 and 6,977, respectively. Chromosomal regions of cultivars selected in rice breeding processes were identified by SNP analysis of genes.
17823843	Roots are a vital organ for absorbing soil moisture and nutrients and influence drought resistance. The identification of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) with molecular markers may allow the estimation of parameters of genetic architecture and improve root traits by molecular marker-assisted selection (MAS). A mapping population of 120 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between japonica upland rice 'IRAT109' and paddy rice 'Yuefu' was used for mapping QTLs of developmental root traits. All plant material was grown in PVC-pipe. Basal root thickness (BRT), root number (RN), maximum root length (MRL), root fresh weight (RFW), root dry weight (RDW) and root volume (RV) were phenotyped at the seedling (I), tillering (II), heading (III), grain filling (IV) and mature (V) stages, respectively. Phenotypic correlations showed that BRT was positively correlated to MRL at the majority of stages, but not correlated with RN. MRL was not correlated to RN except at the seedling stage. BRT, MRL and RN were positively correlated to RFW, RDW and RV at all growth stages. QTL analysis was performed using QTLMapper 1.6 to partition the genetic components into additive-effect QTLs, epistatic QTLs and QTL-by-year interactions (Q x E) effect. The results indicated that the additive effects played a major role for BRT, RN and MRL, while for RFW, RDW and RV the epistatic effects showed an important action and Q x E effect also played important roles in controlling root traits. A total of 84 additive-effect QTLs and 86 pairs of epistatic QTLs were detected for the six root traits at five stages. Only 12 additive QTLs were expressed in at least two stages. This indicated that the majority of QTLs were developmental stage specific. Two main effect QTLs, brt9a and brt9b, were detected at the heading stage and explained 19% and 10% of the total phenotypic variation in BRT without any influence from the environment. These QTLs can be used in breeding programs for improving root traits.
17824661	In the first part of the paper, we report the description of a new strategy for the development of a plant reference gene system that can be used for genetically modified organism (GMO) analysis. On the basis of in silico research for candidate genes, the design of degenerate primers allowed the obtention of genomic sequences of the selected gene ppi-phosphofructokinase (ppi-PPF) for nine taxa in which GMOs have been developed. The comparison and the analysis of inter- and intraspecies sequence variability were performed using a large number of species and cultivars. As an example of application following the detection of single nucleotide polymorphism, we designed specific conventional and real-time polymerase chain reaction tests for the detection and quantification of three taxa, namely, maize, cotton, and rice. This system was highly specific and sensitive. The gene copy number conservation among different cultivars was analyzed and confirmed with a sequencing step. This reference gene system is adequate for use in routine assays for the quantification of GMOs. We then explain briefly the constraints faced and propose recommendations when designing a reference gene system depending on the species to be targeted.
17825422	Defining etiology of acute diarrhea is critical to disease therapy and prevention. In this review we look at recent developments in etiologic agents of acute diarrhea and advances in therapy and prevention of the illness. Newly appreciated agents include enterotoxigenic Bacteroides fragilis, Klebsiella oxytoca and Laribacter hongkongensis. Atypical enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC) strains lacking the gene for epithelial attachment appear to be more important as causes of diarrhea than traditional EPEC strains. Enterotoxigenic E. coli and enteroaggregative E. coli diarrhea known to be important abroad, have recently been shown to occur in the United States. Non-O157:H7 strains of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli are increasing and infrequently are being sought. There is currently a serious epidemic of nosocomial diarrhea due to a fluoroquinolone-resistant and more virulent and difficult to treat strain of C. difficile. Rotavirus vaccine development should lead to reduction of infant gastroenteritis mortality in infants living in developing regions. Noroviruses produce outbreaks of water- and food-borne disease but show broad genetic diversity. Reduced osmolarity oral rehydration treatment (ORT) and recombinant human lactoferrin/lysozyme plus rice-based ORT effectively treat acute diarrhea. Probiotics were shown to be effective in preventing antibiotic associated- and C. difficile-diarrhea. Rifaximin prevents and azithromycin effectively treats travelers' diarrhea.
17826198	Brown rice fermented by Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA) is a fiber-rich food. Effects of dietary administration of FBRA on rat fecal microbiota composition were examined. Male Wistar rats were fed a basal diet or a 5% FBRA- or 10% FBRA-containing diet, and fecal microbiota was analyzed by culture and terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis. The viable cell number of lactobacilli significantly increased after feeding 10% FBRA diet for 3 weeks compared with that in the basal diet group and that in the same group at the beginning of the experiment (day 0). An increase in the viable cell number of lactobacilli was also observed after feeding 10% FBRA for 12 weeks compared with the effect of a basal diet. T-RFLP analysis showed an increase in the percentage of lactobacilli cells in feces of rats fed 10% FBRA for 14 weeks. Lactobacilli strains isolated from rat feces were divided into six types based on their randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns, and they were identified as Lactobacillus reuteri, L. intestinalis and lactobacilli species based on homology of the partial sequence of 16S rDNA. FBRA contains lactic acid bacteria, but their RAPD patterns and identified species were different from those in rat feces. These results indicated that dietary FBRA increases the number of lactobacilli species already resident in the rat intestine.
17826739	AtNDPK2 is involved in transcriptional regulation in response to pathogen and abiotic stresses. AtNDPK2-expressing transgenic rice plants showed regulation of the marker genes for chilling and oxidative stresses. In the present study, we produced AtNDPK2-overexpressing transgenic rice lines using the co-transformation method. Morphologically, the transgenic plants, compared with the control plants, were growth retarded. We investigated how AtNDPK2 overexpression influences the response of rice plants to marker genes related to chilling and ROS stress. The accumulation of transcripts of pBC442 and pBC601, related to chilling stress, was induced in AtNDPK2-overexpressed rice plants. On further investigation, we found that OsAPX1-, OsAPX2-, and OsSodB-scavenging free-oxygen radicals, such as superoxide (O2-) and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), could be induced in AtNDPK2-overexpressed rice plants. In particular, transcripts encoding pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins OsPR2 and OsPR4, as well as oxidative stress response proteins, were confirmed to change the gene expression in the transgenic rice plants. Together, these results suggest that AtNDPK2 plays a regulatory role in chilling and antioxidant signaling in plants.
1782676	Nuclear sequences homologous to the plasmid-like DNA, B4, were analyzed in the Japonica rice variety, Fujiminori. Homologous sequences existed at several positions in the nuclear genome, but each contained only a portion of the B4 sequence. It was impossible to reconstruct the entire sequence of B4 even by collating all the homologous sequences. Overlaps between some of the B4 sequences present in the nuclear genome resulted in parts of the sequence being represented more than once. These features indicate that nuclear sequences homologous to B4 are not the origin of B4 and that they have been transferred from mitochondria and integrated into the nuclear genome. Five other foreign sequences originating in the chloroplast or mitochondrial genome were found within 1 kb of the B4-homologous sequences. Structural analysis is consistent with the hypothesis that the DNA sequences were transferred via RNA.
17827109	Agricultural lands occupy 37% of the earth's land surface. Agriculture accounts for 52 and 84% of global anthropogenic methane and nitrous oxide emissions. Agricultural soils may also act as a sink or source for CO2, but the net flux is small. Many agricultural practices can potentially mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the most prominent of which are improved cropland and grazing land management and restoration of degraded lands and cultivated organic soils. Lower, but still significant mitigation potential is provided by water and rice management, set-aside, land use change and agroforestry, livestock management and manure management. The global technical mitigation potential from agriculture (excluding fossil fuel offsets from biomass) by 2030, considering all gases, is estimated to be approximately 5500-6000Mt CO2-eq.yr-1, with economic potentials of approximately 1500-1600, 2500-2700 and 4000-4300Mt CO2-eq.yr-1 at carbon prices of up to 20, up to 50 and up to 100 US$ t CO2-eq.-1, respectively. In addition, GHG emissions could be reduced by substitution of fossil fuels for energy production by agricultural feedstocks (e.g. crop residues, dung and dedicated energy crops). The economic mitigation potential of biomass energy from agriculture is estimated to be 640, 2240 and 16 000Mt CO2-eq.yr-1 at 0-20, 0-50 and 0-100 US$ t CO2-eq.-1, respectively.
17827171	Current hypotheses of gene duplicate divergence propose that surviving members of a gene duplicate pair may evolve, under conditions of purifying or nearly neutral selection, in one of two ways: with new function arising in one duplicate while the other retains original function (neofunctionalization [NF]) or partitioning of the original function between the 2 paralogs (subfunctionalization [SF]). More recent studies propose that SF followed by NF (subneofunctionalization [SNF]) explains the divergence of many duplicate genes. In this analysis, we evaluate these hypotheses in the context of the large monosaccharide transporter (MST) gene families in Arabidopsis and rice. MSTs have an ancient origin, predating plants, and have evolved in the seed plant lineage to comprise 7 subfamilies. In Arabidopsis, 53 putative MST genes have been identified, with one subfamily greatly expanded by tandem gene duplications. We searched the rice genome for members of the MST gene family and compared them with the MST gene family in Arabidopsis to determine subfamily expansion patterns and estimate gene duplicate divergence times. We tested hypotheses of gene duplicate divergence in 24 paralog pairs by comparing protein sequence divergence rates, estimating positive selection on codon sites, and analyzing tissue expression patterns. Results reveal the MST gene family to be significantly larger (65) in rice with 2 subfamilies greatly expanded by tandem duplications. Gene duplicate divergence time estimates indicate that early diversification of most subfamilies occurred in the Proterozoic (2500-540 Myr) and that expansion of large subfamilies continued through the Cenozoic (65-0 Myr). Two-thirds of paralog pairs show statistically symmetric rates of sequence evolution, most consistent with the SF model, with half of those showing evidence for positive selection in one or both genes. Among 8 paralog pairs showing asymmetric divergence rates, most consistent with the NF model, nearly half show evidence of positive selection. Positive selection does not appear in any duplicate pairs younger than approximately 34 Myr. Our data suggest that the NF, SF, and SNF models describe different outcomes along a continuum of divergence resulting from initial conditions of relaxed constraint after duplication.
17827266	P(1B)-type heavy-metal ATPases (HMAs) are transmembrane metal-transporting proteins that play a key role in metal homeostasis. Despite their importance, very little is known about their functions in monocot species. We report the characterization of rice (Oryza sativa) OsHMA9, a member of the P(1B)-type ATPase family. Semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses of seedlings showed that OsHMA9 expression was induced by a high concentration of copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), and cadmium. We also determined, through promoterbeta-glucuronidase analysis, that the main expression was in the vascular bundles and anthers. The OsHMA9:green fluorescence protein fusion was localized to the plasma membrane. Heterologous expression of OsHMA9 partially rescued the Cu sensitivity of the Escherichia coli copA mutant, which is defective in Cu-transporting ATPases. It did not rescue the Zn sensitivity of the zntA mutant, which is defective in Zn-transporting ATPase. To further elucidate the functional roles of OsHMA9, we isolated two independent null alleles, oshma9-1 and oshma9-2, from the T-DNA insertion population. Mutant plants exhibited the phenotype of increased sensitivity to elevated levels of Cu, Zn, and lead. These results support a role for OsHMA9 in Cu, Zn, and lead efflux from the cells. This article is the first report on the functional characterization of a P(1B)-type metal efflux transporter in monocots.
17827676	The signaling processes in plants that initiate cellular responses to biotic and abiotic factors are believed to be located in the plasma membrane (PM). A better understanding of the PM proteome response to environmental stresses might lead to new strategies for improving stress-tolerant crops. A sub-cellular proteomics approach was applied to monitor changes in abundance of PM-associated protein in response to salinity, a key abiotic stress affecting rice productivity worldwide. Proteome was extracted from a root plasma-membrane-rich fraction of a rice salt tolerant variety, IR651, grown under saline and normal conditions. Comparative two-dimensional electrophoresis revealed that 24 proteins were differentially expressed in response to salt stress. From these, eight proteins were identified by mass spectrometry analysis. Most of the proteins identified are likely to be PM-associated and are known to be involved in several important mechanisms of plant adaptation to salt stress. These include regulation of PM pumps and channels, membrane structure, oxidative stress defense, signal transduction, protein folding, and the methyl cycle. To investigate the correlation between mRNA and protein level in response to salinity, we performed quantitative Real-Time PCR analysis of three genes that were salt responsive at the protein level, including 1,4-Benzoquinone reductase, a putative remorin and a hypersensitive induced response protein. No concordance was detected between the changes in levels of gene and protein expression. Our results indicate that the proteomics approach is suitable for expression analysis of membrane associated proteins under salt stress.
17833396	The results of Chinese field trials reinforce the accepted scientific wisdom that planting different varieties of a crop in the same field holds down the spread of certain diseases and improves yields. And this time researchers seem to have convinced farmers, too.
17834679	Measurements of carbon-14 in small samples of methane from major biogenic sources, from biomass burning, and in "clean air" samples from both the Northern and Southern hemispheres reveal that methane from ruminants contains contemporary carbon, whereas that from wetlands, pat bogs, rice fields, and tundra is somewhat, depleted in carbon-14. Atmospheric (14)GH(4) seems to have increased from 1986 to 1987, and levels at the end of 1987 were 123.3 +/- 0.8 percent modern carbon (pMC) in the Northern Hemisphere and 120.0 +/- 0.7 pMC in the Southern Hemisphere. Model calculations of source partitioning based on the carbon-14 data, CH(4) concentrations, and delta(13)C in CH(4) indicate that 21 +/- 3% of atmospheric CH(4) was derived from fossil carbon at the end of 1987. The data also indicate that pressurized water reactors are an increasingly important source of (14)CH(4).
17835304	The structure factor of amorphous solid D(2)O deposited from the vapor at 10 degrees K has been obtained by measuring the neutron diffraction spectrum in the wave vector transfer from 0.8 to 12.3 reciprocal angstroms. The results indicate that the phase investigated is amorphous and has a liquiid-like structure factor. The Fourier-transformed structure e factor yields a real space pair distribution function consistent with local tetrahedral coordination and hydrogen bonding, as in other condensed phases of water. The intramolecular OD separation is 1.00 angstrom; the lack of data for very large wave vector transfer and the expected near equality of the intramolecular DD separation and intermolecular O . . . D separation make it impossible to determine the intramolecular DOD angle with precision. The neutron scattering data presented are complementary to the x-ray diffraction studies of Venkatesh, Rice, antd Narten.
17836832
17836883	In the Random Sample "Venuses reappear" (18 Feb., p. 923), Patricia Rice of West Virginia University is incorrectly identified as "Patricia White." Randall White of New York University is the source of quotes attributed to "White."
17838336
17842844	In flooded rice fields a decline in total nematode populations began shortly after the onset of soil anaerobiosis and was correlated with a sustained increase in concentration of molecular hydrogen sulfide in the soil-water phase. Laboratory tests showed that hydrogen sulfide at concentrations found in flooded fields killed 100 percent of nematodes in 5 to 10 days. The effect of hydrogen sulfide and its pattern of occurrence in the soils of water-saturated rice fields suggest that this compound can be a significant factor in the etiology and control of certain plant diseases.
17844038	Beggiatoa was obtained from six habitats, including four water-saturated soils from rice fields. The isolate of Beggiatoa from Bernard clay, when reinoculated into soil treatments from pure culture, significantly reduced hydrogen sulfide levels in soils and increased oxygen release from rice plants. Rice plants significantly increased Beggiatoa survival in flooded soils. Some hydrogen sulfide was necessary for survival of the Bernard clay isolate; high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide killed the Bernard clay isolate but were tolerated by a Crowley silt loam isolate from Eagle Lake, Texas. The results suggest that Beggiatoa may be an element of wetlands plant ecosystems.
17845015	A microcanonical unimolecular rate theory (MURT) model incorporating quantized surface vibrations and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus rate constants is applied to a benchmark system for gas-surface reaction dynamics, the activated dissociative chemisorption and associative desorption of hydrogen on Cu(111). Both molecular translation parallel to the surface and rotation are treated as spectator degrees of freedom. MURT analysis of diverse experiments indicates that one surface oscillator participates in the dissociative transition state and that the threshold energy for H2 dissociation on Cu(111) is E0 = 62 kJ/mol. The spectator approximation for rotation holds well at thermally accessible rotational energies (i.e., for Er less than approximately 40 kJ/mol). Over the temperature range from 300 to 1000 K, the calculated thermal dissociative sticking coefficient is ST = S0 exp(-Ea/kBT) where S0 = 1.57 and Ea = 62.9 kJ/mol. The sigmoid shape of rovibrational eigenstate-resolved dissociative sticking coefficients as a function of normal translational energy is shown to derive from an averaging of the microcanonical sticking coefficient, with threshold energy E0, over the thermal surface oscillator distribution of the gas-surface collision complexes. Given that H2/Cu(111) is one of the most dynamically biased of gas-surface reactive systems, the simple statistical MURT model simulates and broadly rationalizes the H2/Cu(111) reactive behavior with remarkable fidelity.
17845859	We studied the storage of sucrose, starch, and hexose before heading in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants by quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis with a population of backcross inbred lines (BILs) of japonica cv. Nipponbare x indica cv. Kasalath. Carbohydrates are accumulated in the rice plant before heading and are translated to the panicle after heading. A higher capacity for accumulation is thus a main target for improvement in yield. The form of carbohydrate (sucrose, starch, or hexose) differs depending on the organ in which it is stored. There was no correlation between starch and sucrose or hexose contents in BILs, and the positions of QTLs controlling starch differed from those for sucrose and hexose accumulation. These results suggest that the genetic control of accumulation differs between starch and sugars. QTLs that control the ratio of sucrose to starch content were detected, suggesting the existence of a mechanism(s) that determines this ratio. On chromosome 1, sucrose-phosphate synthase 1, the key enzyme in sucrose synthesis was close to the peaks of the likelihood odds ratios in QTLs for sucrose or hexose content. These results suggest that SPS1 is related to conversion of carbohydrate to sucrose as accumulated form in a plant before heading.
17846495	Wild progenitor species provide potential gene sources for complex traits such as yield and multiple resistances to biotic and abiotic stresses, and thus are expected to contribute to sustainable food supplies. An introgression line 'IR71033-121-15' was derived from a wild species Oryza minuta (2n = 48, BBCC, Acc No. 101141) at IRRI. Introgression analysis using 530 SSR and STS markers revealed that at least 14 chromosomal segments distributed over 12 chromosomes had been introgressed from O. minuta. An F2:3 population from the cross between IR71033 and Junambyeo (a Korean japonica cultivar) consisting of 146 lines was used for quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis of 16 agronomic traits. A total of 36 single-locus QTLs (S-QTLs) and 45 digenic epistasis (E-QTLs) were identified. In spite of it's inferiority of O. minuta for most of the traits studied, its alleles contributed positively to 57% of the QTLs. The other QTLs originated from either parent, IR71033 or Junambyeo. QTLs for phenotypically correlated traits were mostly detected on introgressed segments. Fourteen QTLs corresponded to QTLs reported earlier, indicating that these QTLs are stable across genetic backgrounds. Twenty-two QTLs controlling yield and its components had not been detected in previous QTL studies. Of these, thirteen consisted of potentially novel alleles from O. minuta. QTLs from O. minuta introgression could be new sources of natural variation for the genetic improvement of rice.
17846498	We describe the gene expression profile of third leaves of rice (cv. Nipponbare) seedlings subjected to salt stress (130 mM NaCl). Transcripts of Mn-SOD, Cu/Zn-SOD,cytosolic and stromal APX, GR and CatB were regulated, whereas expression of thylakoid-bound APX and CatA were down-regulated. The levels of the compatible solute proline and of transcripts of its biosynthetic gene, Delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), were strongly increased by salt stress. Interestingly, a potential compatible solute, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), was also found to be strongly induced by salt stress along with marked up-regulation of transcripts of GABA-transaminase. A dye-swap rice DNA microarray analysis identified a large number of genes whose expression in third leaves was altered by salt stress. Among 149 genes whose expression was altered at all the times assayed (3, 4 and 6 days) during salt stress, there were 47 annotated novel genes and 76 unknown genes. These results provide new insight into the effect of salt stress on the expression of genes related to antioxidant enzymes, proline and GABA as well as of genes in several functional categories.
17846502	During monocarpic senescence in higher plants, functional stay-green delays leaf yellowing, maintaining photosynthetic competence, whereas nonfunctional stay-green retains leaf greenness without sustaining photosynthetic activity. Thus, functional stay-green is considered a beneficial trait that can increase grain yield in cereal crops. A stay-green japonica rice 'SNU-SG1' had a good seed-setting rate and grain yield, indicating the presence of a functional stay-green genotype. SNU-SG1 was crossed with two regular cultivars to determine the inheritance mode and identify major QTLs conferring stay-green in SNU-SG1. For QTL analysis, linkage maps with 100 and 116 DNA marker loci were constructed using selective genotyping with F2 and RIL (recombinant inbred line) populations, respectively. Molecular marker-based QTL analyses with both populations revealed that the functional stay-green phenotype of SNU-SG1 is regulated by several major QTLs accounting for a large portion of the genetic variation. Three main-effect QTLs located on chromosomes 7 and 9 were detected in both populations and a number of epistatic-effect QTLs were also found. The amount of variation explained by several digenic interactions was larger than that explained by main-effect QTLs. Two main-effect QTLs on chromosome 9 can be considered the target loci that most influence the functional stay-green in SNU-SG1. The functional stay-green QTLs may help develop low-input high-yielding rice cultivars by QTL-marker-assisted breeding with SNU-SG1.
17846792	A new multivalvulid myxozoan parasite, Kudoa unicapsula n. sp., is described from the intestinal mesentery, intestine and pyloric caeca of the thin-lipped grey mullet Liza ramada (Risso 1826) and the golden grey mullet L. aurata (Risso, 1810) from the Mediterranean coastal waters of Spain. It is characterized by the presence of elongated, rice corn-like white cysts of 0.47-0.56 x 0.18-0.38 mm, filled with tetracapsulate, slightly asymmetric spores, rectangular in apical view and tear-shaped in lateral view with four polar capsules of considerably different size and slightly unequal spore valves with rounded edges, overlapping each other on the apex of the spore. One large polar capsule includes a polar filament coiled in two to three turns, and the other three polar capsules, which are very small, posses only a rudimental filament. Both light and electron microscopy data showed that this species differs from all previously described Kudoa spp. with unequal polar capsules. The molecular analysis based on 18S and 28S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid DNA sequence data of K. unicapsula n. sp. indicates a close relationship and thus phylogenetic clustering together with K. trifolia, a myxozoan from the same host and the same geographical location.
17849412	Although seed germination is a major subject in plant physiological research, there is still a long way to go to elucidate the mechanism of seed germination. Recently, functional genomic strategies have been applied to study the germination of plant seeds. Here, we conducted a proteomic analysis of seed germination in rice (Oryza sativa indica cv. 9311) - a model monocot. Comparison of 2-DE maps showed that there were 148 proteins displayed differently in the germination process of rice seeds. Among the changed proteins, 63 were down-regulated, 69 were up-regulated (including 20 induced proteins). The down-regulated proteins were mainly storage proteins, such as globulin and glutelin, and proteins associated with seed maturation, such as "early embryogenesis protein" and "late embryogenesis abundant protein", and proteins related to desiccation, such as "abscisic acid-induced protein" and "cold-regulated protein". The degradation of storage proteins mainly happened at the late stage of germination phase II (48 h imbibition), while that of seed maturation and desiccation associated proteins occurred at the early stage of phase II (24 h imbibition). In addition to alpha-amylase, the up-regulated proteins were mainly those involved in glycolysis such as UDP-glucose dehydrogenase, fructokinase, phosphoglucomutase, and pyruvate decarboxylase. The results reflected the possible biochemical and physiological processes of germination of rice seeds.
17849869	Insect hormones regulate growth and development and fecundity of insects. The current study investigated changes in juvenile hormone (JH) and molting hormone (MH) levels in fourth instars and adult females of Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) after imidacloprid application to rice, Oryza sativa L. The results showed that JH level in fourth instars that developed feeding on Fengyouxiangzhan rice plants sprayed with 15, 30, and 60 ppm imidacloprid was significantly higher than that of larvae that developed on control plants, increasing by 5.04, 6.39, and 4.89 times, respectively. The relationships between JH level and imidacloprid concentrations showed a significant negative correlation. In contrast, molting hormone (MH) level in larvae fed on control plants was significantly higher than that on treated plants. JH:MH values in fourth instars developed from larvae feeding on rice plants treated with 15, 30, 60, 80, and 100 ppm imidacloprid increased by 49.17, 39.43, 13.48, 15.80, and 0.2 times, respectively, compared with control. JH and JH:MH ratio in larvae fed on Wujing 15 plants treated with imidacloprid were significantly lower than those fed on Fengyouxiangzhan under the same treatments. JH level in adult females that developed from larvae feeding on rice plants sprayed with imidacloprid significantly decreased with increase in imidacloprid concentration, but it increased compared with control. JH level in adult females was associated with times of imidacloprid application. JH level in adult females developed from larvae feeding on rice plants after double spray with 30 ppm imidacloprid was significantly higher than control, increasing by 61.6 and 116.5%, respectively, compared with a single spray and the control. Moreover, hormone levels in the larvae were related to the application method of imidacloprid. JH level in fourth instars after root application and topical application of imidacloprid was significantly lower than in control. Thus, the dynamics of JH and MH in insects after insecticide applications are an extremely interesting problem, because hormones are related to insect growth and development.
17849880	Stenotus rubrovittatus (Matsumura) (Heteroptera: Miridae) causes brown or black marks on rice, Oryza sativa L., grains (pecky rice), and it is becoming of increasing importance in Japan. Attractiveness of adult females or males of S. rubrovittatus to conspecific individuals was examined in the field in 2003 and 2004. Unmated female-baited traps captured significantly more males than did the unmated male-baited traps. However, the numbers of females captured by female- or male-baited traps were low, and they were not significantly different from the numbers caught by the control traps. No nymphs were captured by any traps. In 2004, we examined the effects of age and mating experience on female attraction ability with the goal of understanding the role of reproductive development in the observed behavior. The daily number of males captured by young unmated female (3-d-old)-baited traps increased from the first day until the fourth day of experiments, and then capture started to decrease. The peak in the number of captured males corresponded to the preoviposition period. When we observed ovarian development of S. rubrovittatus females under 25 degrees C and a photoperiod of 16:8 (L:D) h, we found that vitellogenesis had already started in approximately 30-50% of 1-d-old individuals. By the fifth day after emergence, 50-70% of individuals had mature eggs. These results indicated that the attractiveness of females is the strongest when egg laying becomes possible. Therefore, S. rubrovittatus females attract males selectively for mating, and it is probable that females use a sex pheromone for the attraction.
17849881	Oebalus pugnax (F.) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) damage to rice, Orya savita L., reduces rough and head rice yields, and grain quality. O. pugnax feeds on developing kernels, introducing pathogenic fungi and causing a discoloration of the grain known as "peck." The objective of this study was to determine the stage of rice panicle development most susceptible to O. pugnax attack. During 2005 and 2006, in greenhouse and field experiments, rice plants were caged at the boot stage and then infested with adult or nymphal O. pugnax. Plants were infested during one of three stages of panicle development: heading, milk, or soft dough. Insects were allowed to feed on the plants for the duration of each stage and then killed. After maturation, panicles were harvested, and grain was hulled and milled. Grain weight, percentage of pecky grain, and percentage of whole grain after milling were recorded. No differences were found in the weight of rough, brown, or milled rice infested with O. pugnax during different stages of panicle development. Number of filled grains per cage was not affected by O. pugnax, and number of empty grains per cage was affected in two of four experiments. Higher percentage of peck was found in grain from panicles infested during dough and milk than in grain from panicles infested during heading. Adult O. pugnax caused higher percentage of peck than nymphs in all stages of panicle development. An inverse relationship was found between percentage of peck and percentage of whole grain weight only in one of the experiments.
17849895	The malathion susceptibility, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) sensitivity, and the activity of selected detoxification enzymes including general esterase (EST) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) were compared among field populations of the grasshopper Oxya chinensis (Thunberg) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) collected from nine regions of China. Bioassay results showed that these populations had various levels of the susceptibility to malathion with the LDo values ranging from 1.4- to 22.6-fold compared with the most susceptible population (Xiangyuan or XY). The Jinnan (JN) population seemed to be malathion resistant (22.6-fold), whereas other populations exhibited 1.4- to 6.8-fold reduced malathion susceptibility with a rank order of Changan > Baodi > Hanzhong > Xinxiang > Yinchuan > Beidagang > Jinyuan. It seemed that the observed malathion resistance in the JN population was attributed to at least two resistance mechanisms, including increased EST activity (2.2-fold) and reduced sensitivity of AChE to inhibition by malaoxon (4.6-fold) compared with those of the XY population. In contrast, differential malathion susceptibilities in other populations may be due to increased activities of certain detoxification enzymes (e.g., EST and GST), reduced sensitivity of AChE, or other factors, which were not consistent across the populations examined. Such differential susceptibilities to malathion were likely due to different population habitats (e.g., grasslands, rice [Oryza sativa L.]-producing regions) with very different insecticide application histories and pest management practices.
17849901	Laodelphax striatellus Falln (Homoptera: Delphacidae), is a serious pest in rice, Oryza sativa L., production. A mapping population consisting of 81 recombinant inbred lines (RILs), derived from a cross between japonica' Kinmaze' and indica' DV85' rice, was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for the resistance to L. striatellus. Seedbox screening test (SST), antixenosis test, and antibiosis test were used to evaluate the resistance response of the two parents and 81 RILs to L. striatellus at the seedling stage, and composite interval mapping was used for QTL analysis. When the resistance was measured by SST method, two QTLs conferring resistance to L. striatellus were mapped on chromosome 11, namely, Qsbph11a and Qsbph11b, with log of odds scores 2.51 and 4.38, respectively. The two QTLs explained 16.62 and 27.78% of the phenotypic variance in this population, respectively. In total, three QTLs controlling antixenosis against L. striatellus were detected on chromosomes 3, 4, and 11, respectively, accounting for 37.5% of the total phenotypic variance. Two QTLs expressing antibiosis to L. striatellus were mapped on chromosomes 3 and 11, respectively, explaining 25.9% of the total phenotypic variance. The identified QTL located between markers XNpb202 and C1172 on chromosome 11 was detected repeatedly by three different screening methods; therefore, it may be important to confer the resistance to L. striatellus. Once confirmed in other mapping populations, these QTLs should be useful in breeding for resistance to L. striatellus by marker-assisted selection of different resistance genes in rice varieties.
17850268	Where do weeds come from? How do they evolve from nonweedy ancestors? In this issue of Molecular Ecology, Londo and Schaal examine the origin of weedy rice (Oryza sativa) populations in the USA. Analysing nuclear DNA sequence and microsatellite data, they show the importance of parallel evolution, hybridization, gene flow, and migration in the evolution of these weeds.
17850318	To understand the diversity, taxonomy and antagonistic potential of rice-associated bacteria, and to discover new bacteria for biocontrol of rice foliar pathogens. Amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), BOX-PCR and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis were used to identify the diversity of 203 rice-associated antagonistic bacteria. Eleven potential biocontrol bacteria were used to test their biological control of rice blast in a natural field experiment. Eleven different genera were encountered in five divisions, including Bacilli, Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria and Deinococci. The most prominent genus in all microenvironments was Bacillus (68 x 5%). The efficacy of rice leaf blast biocontrol was 64 x 35% for strain 1Pe2, 57 x 86% for strain 2R37 and 56 x 44% for strain 1Re14. Biocontrol data from the field experiments demonstrated no positive correlation between antagonism, physiological characteristics and biocontrol efficacy. There was significant diversity among the rice-associated bacteria isolated from different microenvironments. The most prominent genus of all microenvironments was Bacillus. Brevibacillus brevis strain 1Pe2 and Deinococcus aquaticus strain 1Re14 have good potential for field application and commercial use. This is the first attempt to study the diversity and identification of rice-associated antagonistic bacteria from different microenvironments, and endophytic bacteria Deinococcus aquaticus strain 1Re14, Acidovorax sp. isolate 3Re21 and Brevibacillus brevis strain 1Pe2 are first reported as rice-associated bacteria.
1785053	Rice flour-unpolished reference material was prepared from unpolished rice collected from three locations in Japan. This reference material is certified for elemental composition and consists of three samples containing low-level (0.023 microgram/g), medium-level (0.32 microgram/g) and high-level (1.82 micrograms/g) of Cd. The unpolished rice was pulverized, oven-dried, homogenized and finally packaged into 1000 glass bottles. The prepared material satisfied the homogeneity criteria for a reference material. Collaborative analytical studies on the elemental composition of the rice flour-unpolished reference material were conducted using various analytical techniques which lead to the certification. Stable isotope dilution/ICP-MS was successfully applied to the accurate determination of Cu, Zn, Mo and Cd in the reference material. Certified values are provided for Ca, Cd, Cu, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Mo, Na, Ni, P, Rb and Zn, based on results of determinations by at least three independent analytical techniques. Reference values are reported for Al, As, Br, Cl, Co, Cr, Hg, Se and Sr. The elemental compositions of the three rice flour-unpolished samples are very similar, except for Cd, and are considered typical of Japanese unpolished rice.
17850916	Rolling-circle eukaryotic transposons, known as Helitron transposons, were first discovered in plants (Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa) and in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. To date, Helitrons have been identified in a diverse range of species, from protists to mammals. They represent a major class of eukaryotic transposons and are fundamentally different from classical transposons in terms of their structure and mechanism of transposition. Helitrons seem to have a major role in the evolution of host genomes. They frequently capture diverse host genes, some of which can evolve into novel host genes or become essential for helitron transposition.
17851462	To study the effect of four protein hydrolysates from vegetable (pea, gluten, rice and soy) and two protein hydrolysates from animal origin (whey and egg) on glucagon and insulin responses. Eight healthy normal-weight male subjects participated in this study. The study employed a repeated-measures design with Latin square randomization and single-blind trials. Protein hydrolysates used in this study (pea, rice, soy, gluten, whey and egg protein hydrolysate) consisted of 0.2 g hydrolysate per kg body weight (bw) and 0.2 g maltodextrin per kg bw and were compared to maltodextrin alone. Postprandial plasma glucose, glucagon, insulin and amino acids were determined over 2 h. All protein hydrolysates induced an enhanced insulin secretion compared to maltodextrin alone and a correspondingly low plasma glucose response. A significant difference was observed in area under the curve (AUC) for plasma glucagon between protein hydrolysates and the maltodextrin control drink (P<0.05). Gluten protein hydrolysate induced the lowest glucagon response. High amino-acid-induced glucagon response does not necessarily go together with low insulin response. Protein hydrolysate source affects AUC for glucagon more profoundly than for insulin, although the protein load used in this study seemed to be at lower level for significant physiological effects.
17851647	Panicle erectness (PE) is one of the most important traits for high-yielding japonica cultivars. Although several cultivars with PE trait have been developed and released for commercial production in China, there is little information on the inheritance of PE traits in rice. In the present study, 69 widely cultivated japonica cultivars and a double haploid (DH) population derived from a cross between a PE cultivar (Wuyunjing 8) and a drooping panicle cultivar (Nongken 57) were utilized to elucidate the mechanisms of PE formation and to map PE associated genes. Our data suggested that panicle length (PL) and plant height (PH) significantly affected panicle curvature (PC), with shorter PL and PH resulting in smaller PC and consequently more erect. A putative major gene was identified on chromosome 9 by molecular markers and bulk segregant analysis in DH population. In order to finely map the major gene, all simple sequence repeats (SSR) markers on chromosome 9 as well as 100 newly developed sequence-tagged site (STS) markers were used to construct a linkage group for quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping. A major QTL, qPE9-1, between STS marker H90 and SSR marker RM5652, was detected, and accounted for 41.72% of PC variation with pleiotropic effect on PH and PL. another QTL, qPE9-2, was also found to be adjacent to qPE9-1. In addition, we found that H90, the nearest marker to qPE9-1, used for genotyping 38 cultivars with extremely erect and drooping panicles, segregated in agreement with PC, suggesting the H90 product was possibly part of the qPE9-1 gene or closely related to it. These data demonstrated that H90 could be used for marker-aided selection for the PE trait in breeding and in the cloning of qPE9-1.
17852340	SINA genes in plants are part of a multigene family with 5 members in Arabidopsis thaliana, 10 members in Populus trichocarpa, 6 members in Oryza sativa, at least 6 members in Zea mays and at least 1 member in Physcomitrella patens. Six members in maize were confirmed by RT-PCR. All SINAs have one RING domain and one SINA domain. These two domains are highly conserved in plants. According to the motif organization and phylogenetic tree, SINA family members were divided into 2 groups. In addition, through semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of maize members and Digital Northern analysis of Arabidopsis and rice members, we found that the tissue expression patterns are more diverse in monocot than in Arabidopsis.
17852346	The glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors are linked to glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GAPs) which are essential for the growth of mammalian, yeast and protozoan cells. The GPI anchor is covalently linked to GAP by amide bond formation between the carboxyl terminus and phosphoethanolamine attached at the third mannose and mediated by a transamidase complex. Mediation of GPI synthesis is by the sequential additions of GPI-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GPI-GnT) complex, the GlcN-PI de-N-acetylase, the GlcN-PI mannosyltransferases and the GPI lipid anchor phosphoethanolamine transferase complexes. We report a rice gene OsPIG-F that encodes a homolog to the human PIG-F protein, one of GPI lipid anchor phosphoethanolamine transferase complexes. The amino acid sequences of rice PIG-F consisted of six helix transmembrane domains, one glycosaminoglycan attachment site, one cGMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation site and a protein C phosphorylation site at the C-terminus. This unique structure of rice PIG-F indicates the typical membrane bound structure of a protein. Polyclonal antibody for rice PIG-F was found to be cross-reactive with a protein extracted from the leaves of rice. The levels of rice PIG-F transcripts were found to be abundant in leaves, moderately in the milky stage of seed development and less in the floral spikelet, indicating that the rice PIG-F gene was differentially regulated in specific tissues. Furthermore, the levels of rice PIG-F transcription were up-regulated by growth hormones including GA(3), NAA and kinetin. These results indicated that the rice PIG-F gene expression may medicated by these growth regulators.
17852383	Arsenic contamination of rice plants by arsenic-polluted irrigation groundwater could result in high arsenic concentrations in cooked rice. The main objective of the study was to estimate the total and inorganic arsenic intakes in a rural population of West Bengal, India, through both drinking water and cooked rice. Simulated cooking of rice with different levels of arsenic species in the cooking water was carried out. The presence of arsenic in the cooking water was provided by four arsenic species (arsenite, arsenate, methylarsonate or dimethylarsinate) and at three total arsenic concentrations (50, 250 or 500 microg l(-1)). The results show that the arsenic concentration in cooked rice is always higher than that in raw rice and range from 227 to 1642 microg kg(-1). The cooking process did not change the arsenic speciation in rice. Cooked rice contributed a mean of 41% to the daily intake of inorganic arsenic. The daily inorganic arsenic intakes for water plus rice were 229, 1024 and 2000 microg day(-1) for initial arsenic concentrations in the cooking water of 50, 250 and 500 microg arsenic l(-1), respectively, compared with the tolerable daily intake which is 150 microg day(-1).
17852513	The study was undertaken with the objective of analysing the bioavailable iron, calcium and related constituents in rice flakes of four different thicknesses. Rice flakes of four different thicknesses were procured from four different commercial sources. They were analysed for moisture, mineral, iron, calcium, phosphorous, dietary fibre and phytin phosphorous using standard methods. Bioavailable iron and calcium were estimated using the equilibrium dialysis method. The thickness of flakes ranged from 0.08 to 1.20 mm for thin to thick flakes. The mineral content of the flakes ranged from 0.5 to 1.2 g, iron content from 3.38 to 6.86 mg and calcium content from 107 to 210 mg/100 g in samples of different thickness. Phosphorous (111-430 mg/100 g), phytin phosphorous (23-164 mg/100 g) and dietary fibre (5.64-11.5 g/100 g) reduced with the degree of flaking. The percentage of available iron ranged from 7% to 26% and that of available calcium from 8% to 25% from thick to thin flakes, but the differences were nonsignificant. Multiple regression analysis of the data showed a significant association of phytin phosphorous and dietary fibre (dependent variables) for binding of iron and calcium.
17853355	Sulfate assimilation is a pathway providing reduced sulfur for the synthesis of cysteine, methionine, co-enzymes such as iron-sulfur centres, thiamine, lipoic acid, or Coenzyme A, and many secondary metabolites, e.g., glucosinolates or alliins. The pathway is relatively well understood in flowering plants, but very little information exists on sulfate assimilation in basal land plants. Since the finding of a putative 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate reductase in PHYSCOMITRELLA PATENS, an enigmatic enzyme thought to exist in fungi and some bacteria only, it has been evident that sulfur metabolism in lower plants may substantially differ from seed plant models. The genomic sequencing of two basal plant species, the Bryophyte PHYSCOMITRELLA PATENS, and the Lycophyte SELAGINELLA MOELLENDORFFII, opens up the possibility to search for differences between lower and higher plants at the genomic level. Here we describe the similarities and differences in the organisation of the sulfate assimilation pathway between basal and advanced land plants derived from genome comparisons of these two species with ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA and ORYZA SATIVA, two seed plants with sequenced genomes. We found differences in the number of genes encoding sulfate transporters, adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate reductase, and sulfite reductase between the lower and higher plants. The consequences for regulation of the pathway and evolution of sulfate assimilation in plants are discussed.
17853511	Herbaspirillum seropedicae is an endophytic diazotroph associated with economically important crops such as rice, sugarcane, and wheat. Here, we present a 2-D reference map for H. seropedicae. Using MALDI-TOF-MS we identified 205 spots representing 173 different proteins with a calculated average of 1.18 proteins/gene. Seventeen hypothetical or conserved hypothetical ORFs were shown to code for true gene products. These data will support the genome annotation process and provide a basis on which to undertake comparative proteomic studies.
17853593
17853599	Cyclopoid copepods have proved more effective for practical mosquito control than any other invertebrate predator of mosquito larvae. Their operational potential is enhanced by the fact that mass production is relatively easy and inexpensive. The exceptional potential of copepods for mosquito control was first realized about 25 years ago. Since then, laboratory experiments with copepods and mosquito larvae around the world have shown: Only the larger copepod species (body length > 1.4 mm) are of practical use for mosquito control. They kill mainly 1st instar mosquitoes. The most effective species have the capacity to kill more than 40 Aedes larvae/copepod/day. They generally kill fewer Anopheles larvae and even fewer Culex larvae. Most field testing of copepods has been in Aedes container-breeding habitats. Field tests have shown that: The most effective copepod species maintain large populations in a container habitat for as long as there is water. They typically reduce Aedes production by 99-100%. They can cause local eradication of container-breeding Aedes mosquitoes if present in a high percentage of breeding sites. Field surveys in Anopheles, floodwater Aedes, and Culex breeding habitats have shown that natural copepod populations can substantially reduce, or even eliminate, mosquito production. Field trials in temporary pools, marshes, and rice fields have demonstrated that introduction of the right copepod species to the right habitat at the right time can eliminate Anopheles or floodwater Aedes larvae. As a rule, copepods cannot eliminate Culex production by themselves, but they can reinforce and augment control by other methods. The only large-scale operational use of copepods to date has been in Vietnam, which has achieved local eradication of Ae. aegypti in hundreds of villages. Conditions in Vietnam are particularly favorable because: Many Ae. aegypti breeding sites are water storage containers that are conspicuous and easily treated. Motivation to maintain copepods in containers for Ae. aegypti control is strong because of the high incidence of dengue hemorrhagic fever. Copepod use is effectively managed by women's associations already experienced with neighborhood health services. Copepods have the potential for local eradication of Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus in many other countries besides Vietnam. Professional capacity for copepod management and social institutions for community participation to help with implementation and maintenance are the main factors limiting broader use of copepods for operational mosquito control at the present time.
17854856	Rice is a major food crop throughout the world; however, accumulation of toxic metals and metalloids in grains in contaminated environments is a matter of growing concern. Field experiments were conducted to analyze the growth performance, elemental composition (Fe, Si, Zn, Mn, Cu, Ni, Cd and As) and yield of the rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Saryu-52) grown under different doses of fly-ash (FA; applied @ 10 and 100 tha(-1) denoted as FA(10) and FA(100), respectively) mixed with garden soil (GS) in combination with nitrogen fertilizer (NF; applied @ 90 and 120 kg ha(-1) denoted as NF(90) and NF(120), respectively) and blue green algae biofertilizer (BGA; applied @ 12.5 kg ha(-1) denoted as BGA(12.5)). Significant enhancement of growth was observed in the plants growing on amended soils as compared to GS and best response was obtained in amendment of FA(10)+NF(90)+BGA(12.5). Accumulation of Si, Fe, Zn and Mn was higher than Cu, Cd, Ni and As. Arsenic accumulation was detected only in FA(100) and its amendments. Inoculation of BGA(12.5) caused slight reduction in Cd, Ni and As content of plants as compared to NF(120) amendment. The high levels of stress inducible non-protein thiols (NP-SH) and cysteine in FA(100) were decreased by application of NF and BGA indicating stress amelioration. Study suggests integrated use of FA, BGA and NF for improved growth, yield and mineral composition of the rice plants besides reducing the high demand of nitrogen fertilizers.
17855253	With the completion of the model plant genome sequencing projects such as Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa L.), comparative genomics has been developed rapidly in recent years. As a new branch of science, this technique has offered a new approach for studying plant genome evolution, structure and function. In this paper, the research strategies, such as comparative genetic mapping, microcollinearity study in gene structure, comparative research on the ESTs and proteins, comparative QTL mapping among crops, and comparative map-based cloning of genes, were summarized. We reviewed the principles, characteristics, feasibilities and progresses of various strategies that were used in plant comparative genomics. It would be helpful to use the sequence data from model plants to elucidate the structure and function of other crop genomes.
17855262	A F2 population containing 180 lines, which was derived from the cross between the partially sequenced indica variety "Pei'ai 64S" and the completely sequenced japonica variety "Nipponbare" , was used to construct a genetic linkage framework map (referred to as F2 map), which included 138 microsatellite sites and covered 1737.81 cM of total genomic length, an average distance of 11.90 cM. Single seed descent F2:6 population with 330 lines was used to construct a genetic linkage map (known as F6 map) using 92 markers. The total genomic length and average distance were 2563.5 cM and 27.86 cM, respectively. The F2 and F6 maps differed in linkage groups, mapped markers, sequenced order of markers, ge-netic distance and average distance on the maps. Preliminary analysis about these difference was carried out.
17855263	We found that the seedlings of indica rice cultivar Dular showed chlorosis but the seedlings of japonica rice cultivar Lemont remained green under natural low temperature in early spring. Using an F2 population of Lemont Dular, we found that the difference of cold tolerance at seedling stage between Dular and Lemont is controlled by a single major gene, with the chlorosis allele being recessive. We named the gene cisc(t). With the help of SSR markers, cisc(t) was mapped in a 5.5 cM interval between SSR markers RM257 and RM242 on chromosome 9.
17855401	Mammalian promoters are categorized into TATA and CpG-related groups, and they have complementary roles associated with differentiated transcriptional characteristics. While the TATA box is also found in plant promoters, it is not known if CpG-type promoters exist in plants. Plant promoters contain Y Patches (pyrimidine patches) in the core promoter region, and the ubiquity of these beyond higher plants is not understood as well. Sets of promoter sequences were utilized for the analysis of local distribution of short sequences (LDSS), and approximately one thousand octamer sequences have been identified as promoter constituents from Arabidopsis, rice, human and mouse, respectively. Based on their localization profiles, the identified octamer sequences were classified into several major groups, REG (Regulatory Element Group), TATA box, Inr (Initiator), Kozak, CpG and Y Patch. Comparison of the four species has revealed three categories: (i) shared groups found in both plants and mammals (TATA box), (ii) common groups found in both kingdoms but the utilized sequence is differentiated (REG, Inr and Kozak) and (iii) specific groups found in either plants or mammals (CpG and Y Patch). Our comparative LDSS analysis has identified conservation and differentiation of promoter architectures between higher plants and mammals.
1786622	A 3-year entomological study was carried out on the transmission of malaria in a village of 900 inhabitants in a rice-growing area of Burkina Faso. In the study area inhabitants use bed nets to protect themselves from mosquito bites. In the first year of the study, baseline data were collected; in the second year, the village was divided in two parts and all the bed nets in the southern part were sprayed with deltamethrin (25 mg/m2); and in the third year, all the bed nets in both parts of the village were sprayed. The inoculation rate was estimated by hand collection of mosquitos on human volunteers who were not protected by bed nets. The overall inoculation rate in the first year was 55 infected bites per person and was higher in the southern than in the northern part of the village. During the second year the rate increased to 70 bites per person on average (but was slightly lower than this in the southern part of the village). During the third year, the inoculation rate fell to three infected bites per year, i.e., a reduction of 94% compared with the first year. This reduction arose primarily because of a marked decrease in the sporozoitic index and a lower density of vectors. Thus, use of pyrethroid-impregnated bed nets by all members of the community appears to be a major tool in preventing transmission of malaria.
17867634	Microsatellite markers are employed for genotyping of Basmati varieties and assaying purity of market samples. However, employment of diverse electrophoresis techniques across laboratories has resulted in inconsistent allele sizes, creating doubts about the suitability of the assay. This study evaluated agarose gel electrophoresis, slab gel electrophoresis, and capillary electrophoresis techniques for their efficiency in the detection and quantification of adulteration in Basmati samples. Comparative analysis across 8 microsatellite loci in 12 rice varieties demonstrated that the capillary electrophoresis method showed less error (+/-0.73 bp) in the estimation of allele sizes compared to slab gel (+/-1.59 bp) and agarose gel (+/-8.03 bp) electrophoretic methods. Capillary electrophoresis showed greater reproducibility (<0.5 bp deviation) compared to slab gel (1 bp) and agarose (>3 bp) based methods. Capillary electrophoresis was significantly superior in quantification of the adulterant, with a mean error of +/-3.91% in comparison to slab gel (+/-6.09%). Lack of accuracy and consistency of the slab gel and agarose electrophoretic methods warrants the employment of capillary electrophoresis for Basmati rice purity assays.
17867856	The rice frog (Fejervarya limnocharis) species complex is widely distributed, from India to Japan, and most prevalently in Southeast Asia. Conspicuous morphological variation has been reported for this species complex throughout its distribution range. In the present study, we used mtDNA gene sequence and allozyme analyses to infer evolutionary affinities within this species complex using eight populations (Sri Lanka; Bangkok and Ranong in Thailand; Taiwan; and Hiroshima, Okinawa, Ishigaki and Iriomote in Japan). We also conducted crossing experiments among four populations from Japan, Thailand, and Sri Lanka in order to find out more about the reproductive isolating mechanisms that might exist among the East, Southeast, and South Asian populations of this species complex. The crossing experiments revealed that the Sri Lanka population is reproductively isolated from the Hiroshima, Bangkok, and Ranong populations by complete hybrid inviability, and that the Bangkok population may be reproductively isolated from the Hiroshima population by partial hybrid inviability. Thus, it is not unreasonable to regard the Sri Lanka population as a species separated from F. limnocharis. The mtDNA and allozyme data showed that the Ranong population is most closely related to the Bangkok population in nuclear genome, but more similar to the Okinawa and Taiwan populations in mtDNA genome. The present, preliminary survey may raise questions about the species status of these particular populations and also about the nature of the biological species concept.
17868176	Rice bran oil (RBO) is rich in a variety of bioactive phytochemicals otherwise known as unsaponifiable constituents (USC). Oryzanols, phytosterols, tocols, etc. are the major USC in RBO; the methods presently used for their estimation involve different techniques and require pretreatment of the sample. In this paper standardization of a simple method for simultaneous estimation of USC directly from RBO using HPTLC is presented. The method involves a two-stage separation of USC on a precoated silica gel 60 F(254)TLC plate viz.: TLC-1 to separate sterols, oryzanols and tocols; TLC-2 to separate steryl esters, wax, and squalene. Calibration plots using the respective standards were made to determine LOD, LOQ, and linear regression equations. Recovery studies were also conducted and the values ranged from 93.45 to 101.97%. The LOD and LOQ values showed the sensitivity of the method. The instrumental precision was found to be in the range of 0.30 to 1.18 CV%. Quantitative estimation of USC in crude RBO and refined RBO using this method gave a concentration of 52.80 mg/g of USC in the crude and 33.48 mg/g in the refined oil. The present method for estimation of USC using HPTLC is fast, simple, accurate, precise, and sensitive, as demonstrated here.
17869085	Chinese red yeast rice (RYR) is a food herb made by fermenting Monascus purpureus Went yeast with white rice. RYR contains a mixture of monacolins, one of which--monacolin K (MK)--is identical to lovastatin (LV). Epidemiological studies show that individuals taking statins have a reduced risk of colon cancer. In the present study, LV decreased cellular proliferation (P<.001) and induced apoptosis (P<.05) in HCT-116 and HT-29 human colon cancer cells. RYR inhibited both tumor cell growths (P<.001) and enhanced apoptosis (P<.05) in HCT-116 cells. Inhibition of proliferation was reversed by mevalonate (MV) in LV-treated cells, since LV is a 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl CoA reductase (HMGCR) inhibitor. However, RYR with MV did not reverse the observed inhibition of growth. MK-free RYR did not reverse the observed LV-mediated inhibition of cancer cell growth. These observations suggest that other components in RYR, including other monacolins, pigments or the combined matrix effects of multiple constituents, may affect intracellular signaling pathways differently from purified crystallized LV in colon cancer cells. RYR was purified into two fractions: pigment-rich fraction of Chinese red yeast rice (PF-RYR) and monacolin-rich fraction of Chinese red yeast rice (MF-RYR). The effect of MF-RYR was similar to that of LV, while the effect of PF-RYR was similar to the effect of the whole RYR extract on the proliferation, apoptosis and mRNA level of HMGCR and sterol response element binding protein-2. These results suggest that the matrix effects of RYR beyond MK alone may be active in inhibiting colon cancer growth. RYR with or without MK may be a botanical approach to colon cancer chemoprevention worthy of further investigation.
17870590	An indica rice cultivar IET8585 (Ajaya) resists diverse races of the Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae pathogen attack, and is often cultivated as bacterial leaf blight (blb) resistant check in India. Earlier we reported a recessive blb resistance gene mapped to the long arm of chromosome 5 in IET8585. Recessive gene-mediated blb resistance mechanism is not yet clearly understood. Here we analyzed the transcriptional profile of the blb infected resistant cultivar by rice 22K oligo array. Microarray analysis revealed differential expression of numerous genes at both early (6 h) and late (120 h) stages of infection in the resistant IET8585 cultivar over the susceptible IR24. Some of the differential gene expressions were validated by both RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Higher expression of ethylene response element binding protein (EREBP) transcription factor along with lower expression of alcohol dehydrogenase gene and reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging system may be responsible for hypersensitive cell death in the resistant cultivar upon bacterial infection. Induction of glutathione-mediated detoxification and flavonoid biosynthetic pathways along with up-regulation of defense genes during infection may inhibit pathogen spread in the host tissues. In light of this and previous studies a mechanism of recessive gene-mediated bacterial blight resistance in indica rice is discussed.
17870591	The makorin (MKRN) RING finger protein gene family encodes proteins (makorins) with a characteristic array of zinc-finger motifs and which are present in a wide array of eukaryotes. In the present study, we analyzed the structure and expression of a putative makorin RING finger protein gene in rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. Japonica cv. Nipponbare). From the analysis of the genomic (AP003543), mRNA (AK120250) and deduced protein (BAD61603) sequences of the putative MKRN gene of rice, obtained from GenBank, we found that it was indeed a bona fide member of the MKRN gene family. The rice MKRN cDNA encoded a protein with four C3H zinc-finger-motifs, one putative Cys-His zinc-finger motif, and one RING zinc-finger motif. The presence of this distinct motif organization and overall amino acid identity clearly indicate that this gene is indeed a true MKRN ortholog. We isolated RNA from embryonic axes of rice seeds at various stages of imbibition and germination and studied the temporal expression profile of MKRN by RT-PCR. This analysis revealed that MKRN transcripts were present at all the time points studied. It was at very low levels in dry seeds, increased slowly during imbibition and germination, and slightly declined in the seedling growth stage. After 6days of germination, an organ-dependent expression pattern of MKRN was observed: highest in roots and moderate in leaves. Similarly to MKRN transcripts, transcripts of cytoskeletal actin and tubulin were also detected in dry embryos, steadily increased during imbibition and germination and leveled off after 24h of germination. We studied the spatial expression profile of MKRN in rice tissues, by using a relatively fast, simple and effective non-radioactive mRNA in situ hybridization (NRISH) technique, which provided the first spatial experimental data that hints at the function of a plant makorin. This analysis revealed that MKRN transcripts were expressed in young plumules, lateral root primordia, leaf primordia, leaves and root tissues at many different stages of germination. The presence of MKRN transcripts in dry seeds, its early induction during germination and its continued spatiotemporal expression during early vegetative growth suggest that MKRN has an important role in germination, leaf and lateral root morphogenesis and overall development in rice.
1787276	Diarrhoea is among the foremost disorders responsible for high mortality and morbidity in children of third world countries. In addition, improper feeding during diarrhoea leads to a vicious cycle of frequent episodes of diarrhoea and malnutrition in these children. In this study 595 households (200 urban and 395 rural) with 741 children who met the age criteria of 36 months or less were randomly selected for assessing the feeding practices during diarrhoea. Out of these, 276 (37%) were infants and 465 (63%) were toddlers. The majority of both breastfed and non breastfed children were also receiving solids and liquid foods. Animal milk was used by 89% of non-breastfed children. Forty six percent of breastfed and 78% of non-breastfed children were given "Khitchri" (rice cooked with lentils) as a solid diet. During diarrhoeal episodes, most mothers (70%) continued breast feeding their children. Whereas, 53% children also received solid and semi-solid diet which was either "Khitchri" or banana as mentioned by more than half of the respondents. The majority of mothers (97%) considered breast-feeding to be a good practice during childhood diarrhoea.
1787279	Diarrhoea is a common illness and can be life-threatening. Mothers are used to dealing with diarrhoea and have an ample repertoire of home-based practices, traditional treatments, and western-style medicine to manage diarrhoeal episodes. However, programme planners often overlook and/or underestimate this knowledge, and by so doing they constrain the possible impact of educational messages and intervention programmes designed to treat diarrhoea and to promote oral rehydration therapy. This study addresses the "popular epidemiology" of diarrhoea, in an effort to highlight data that may prove useful for planners of diarrhoea-management programmes. We found that when mothers assess the severity of diarrhoea they consider an increase in the usual number of stools passed per day, as well as the colour, smell and liquid content of the stools. However, they also place special consideration on how much the episode of diarrhoea interfered with their daily activities. When considering the worsening or improvement of their child during the episode, they rely on symptoms related to changes in the child's usual wellbeing, while the more important signs that they recognise are focused on the child's eyes. In relation to fluid and food, we found that herbal tea and rice-based beverages were most commonly used, and that during diarrhoea, mothers were more prone to modify the usual diet fed to the child than to withhold food.
1787282	Recently, the role of feeding as treatment of acute diarrhoea has received increasing attention. To assess the efficacy of early feeding in acute diarrhoea, we conducted a randomised, clinical trial of a traditional legume-based weaning diet khitchri in boys 9 to 48 months old with moderate to severe dehydration. Khitchri is composed of rice and lentils cooked with cottonseed oil. Children were randomly allocated to 2 groups: group A received only WHO ORS but no food for the first 24 hours and then khitchri and half-strength cow's milk formula freely; group B received khitchri and the half-strength formula in addition to ORS after the initial rehydration period of 4 to 6 hours. The mean period of evaluation was 3 days. 69 patients were admitted into the study, 33 in group A and 36 in group B. The initial mean purging rate for the children was greater than 200 g/kg/day. Six children did not complete the study because they developed intercurrent infections or were removed by their parents for non-medical reasons. Of the 63 patients who were evaluated, 44 (70%) were successfully treated, 21 in group A and 23 in group B. There were no significant differences in the 2 groups in mean stool output, number of stools, or weight gain, although a trend toward earlier improvement was seen in group B. These data indicate that early feeding of khitchri and WHO/ORS may be as well tolerated as WHO/ORS alone in the first 24 hours treatment of severe acute diarrhoea in young children.
17872948	Rice diterpenoid phytoalexins such as momilactones and phytocassanes are produced in suspension-cultured rice cells treated with a chitin oligosaccharide elicitor and in rice leaves irradiated with UV light. The common substrate geranylgeranyl diphosphate is converted into diterpene hydrocarbon precursors via a two-step sequential cyclization and then into the bioactive phytoalexins via several oxidation steps. It has been suggested that microsomal cytochrome P-450 monooxygenases (P-450s) are involved in the downstream oxidation of the diterpene hydrocarbons leading to the phytoalexins and that a dehydrogenase is involved in momilactone biosynthesis. However, none of the enzymes involved in the downstream oxidation of the diterpene hydrocarbons have been identified. In this study, we found that a putative dehydrogenase gene (AK103462) and two functionally unknown P-450 genes (CYP99A2 and CYP99A3) form a chitin oligosaccharide elicitor- and UV-inducible gene cluster, together with OsKS4 and OsCyc1, the diterpene cyclase genes involved in momilactone biosynthesis. Functional analysis by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli followed by enzyme assays demonstrated that the AK103462 protein catalyzes the conversion of 3beta-hydroxy-9betaH-pimara-7,15-dien-19,6beta-olide into momilactone A. The double knockdown of CYP99A2 and CYP99A3 specifically suppressed the elicitor-inducible production of momilactones, strongly suggesting that CYP99A2, CYP99A3, or both are involved in momilactone biosynthesis. These results provide strong evidence for the presence on chromosome 4 of a gene cluster involved in momilactone biosynthesis.
1787400	A new microgel droplet formulation of Bacillus sphaericus 1593 M (Biocide-S) was tested at 2 rates against culicine vectors of Japanese encephalitis and Anopheles subpictus. A single application just after transplantation of rice seedlings prevented the buildup of anopheline as well as culicine populations, and gave 83-100% reduction of pupal density at the lower rate (2.2 kg/ha) and 87-100% reduction at the higher dosage (4.3 kg/ha) for at least 5 weeks. During the last 3 wk before harvest, density was naturally very low and the efficacy of the treatment could not be assessed. This formulation has a potential for control of riceland mosquitoes, but a suitable delivery system is required before it can be considered for practical control.
17874189	Monosaccharide transporters mediate the membrane transport of a variable range of monosaccharides, which plays a crucial role in sugar distribution throughout the plant. To investigate the significance of monosaccharide transporters for rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed development, cDNA of a new putative monosaccharide transporter gene OsMST4 was isolated. The deduced OsMST4 protein shows typical features of monosaccharide transporters, and shares high homology with other plant homologues. Heterologous expression in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) showed that OsMST4 is a functional monosaccharide transporter capable of transporting glucose, fructose, mannose and galactose. Transcriptional analysis revealed that OsMST4 is expressed in all tested organs/tissues. In developing caryopses, its expression is high at the early and middle grain filling stages, and declines gradually to low levels after that. Further analysis revealed that it is expressed in both the maternal tissue and the filial tissue, with its highest expression in embryo. Cellular location in young caryopses through RNA in situ hybridization showed that OsMST4 mRNA mainly accumulates in the vascular parenchyma of the chalazal vein, cross-cells, nucellar tissue and endosperm. The expression pattern of OsMST4 was further confirmed by histochemical analysis of the OsMST4-promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) transgenic rice plants. These data indicate that OsMST4 is actively involved in monosaccharides supply for seed development during the course of grain filling. In addition, the cell type-specific expression patterns of OsMST4 in other sink and source tissues were also investigated, and its corresponding physiological roles were discussed.
17874225	We characterized the insertion sites of newly transposed copies of the tissue-culture-induced ty1-copia retrotransposon Tos17 in the Oryza Tag Line (OTL) T-DNA mutant library of rice cv. Nipponbare. While Nipponbare contains two native copies of Tos17 the number of additional copies, deduced from Southern blot analyses in a subset of 384 T-DNA lines and using a reverse transcriptase probe specific to the element, ranged from 1 to 8 and averaged 3.37. These copies were shown to be stably inherited and to segregate independently in the progenies of insertion lines. We took advantage of the absence of EcoRV restriction sites in the immediate vicinity of the 3' LTR of the native copies of Tos17 in the genome sequence of cv. Nipponbare, thereby preventing amplification of corresponding PCR fragments, to efficiently and selectively amplify and sequence flanking regions of newly transposed Tos17 inserts. From 25,286 T-DNA plants, we recovered 19,252 PCR products (76.1%), which were sequenced yielding 14,513 FSTs anchored on the rice pseudomolecules. Following elimination of redundant sequences due to the presence of T-DNA plants deriving from the same cell lineage, these FSTs corresponded to 11,689 unique insertion sites. These unique insertions exhibited higher densities in subtelomeric regions of the chromosomes and hot spots for integration, following a distribution that remarkably paralleled that of Tos17 sites in the National Institute for Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS) library. The insertion sites were mostly found in genic regions (77.5%) and preferably in coding sequences (68.8%) compared to unique T-DNA insertion sites in the same materials (49.1% and 28.3%, respectively). Predicted non- transposable element (TE) genes prone to a high frequency of Tos17 integration (i.e. from 5 to 121 inserts) in the OTL T-DNA collection were generally found to be also hot spots for integration in the NIAS library. The 9,060 Tos17 inserts inserted into non TE genes were found to disrupt a total of 2,773 genes with an average of 3.27 inserts per gene, similar to that in the NIAS library (3.28 inserts per gene on average) whereas the 4,472 T-DNA inserted into genes in the same materials disrupted a total of 3,911 genes (1.14 inserts per gene on average). Interestingly, genes disrupted by both Tos17 and T-DNA inserts in the library represented only 14.9% and 10.6% of the complement of genes interrupted by Tos17 and T-DNA inserts respectively while 52.1% of the genes tagged by Tos17 inserts in the OTL library were found to be tagged also in the NIAS Tos17 library. We concluded that the first advantage in characterizing Tos17 inserts in a rice T-DNA collection lies in a complementary tagging of novel genes and secondarily in finding other alleles in a same genetic background, thereby greatly enhancing the library genome coverage and its overall value for implementing forward and reverse genetics strategies.
1787428	Rumen protozoa can produce lysine from free 2,2'-diaminopimelic acid (DAP). However, the quantitative importance of this transformation has been disputed; lysine contents of protozoal incubation supernatants reported by Onodera & Kandatsu and Masson & Ling show a 26-fold difference. The in vitro experimental methods of both groups were compared to determine the causes of this difference. Lysine production was proportional to DAP concentration. Results with rumen protozoa from sheep or goats were similar. The incubation medium and deproteinizing procedure of the Welsh group gave a two-fold increase in lysine production compared with Japanese protocols. Omissions of rice starch from protozoal incubations slightly increased lysine production, whereas omissions of antibacterial agents resulted in varying, yet relatively small changes. The greatest cause of the difference was the number of rumen protozoa incubated. When this factor was taken into account, the difference in the maximum rates of lysine production between the Welsh and Japanese groups was only three-fold, namely 4.5 versus 15.0 nmol lysine/10(5) protozoa/h. Adding other amino acids to the incubations suggested that DAP uptake by rumen protozoa may occur via transport system ASC. The importance of DAP metabolism by protozoa as a source of lysine for ruminant host animals is discussed.
17874828	Although several nutrients and foods have been suggested to be preventive for constipation, all previous studies have examined a single nutrient or food in each analysis. In contrast, analysis of dietary patterns may provide new insights into the influence of diet on functional constipation. We conducted a cross-sectional examination of the association between dietary pattern and functional constipation in 3,770 Japanese female dietetic course students aged 18-20 y from 53 institutions in Japan. Diet was assessed with a validated self-administered diet history questionnaire with 148 food items, from which 30 food groups were created and entered into a factor analysis. Functional constipation was defined using the Rome I criteria, which has previously been used in several epidemiologic studies on constipation. The prevalence of functional constipation was 26.0% (n=979). Four dietary patterns were identified: (1) "Healthy", (2) "Japanese traditional", (3) "Western," and 4) "Coffee and dairy products." After adjustment for several confounding factors, the "Japanese traditional" pattern, characterized by a high intake of rice, miso soup, and soy products and a low intake of bread and confectionaries, was associated with a significantly lower prevalence of functional constipation. In comparison with the lowest quintile, the multivariate adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval) was 0.52 (0.41-0.66) in the highest quintile (p for trend < 0.0001). Other dietary patterns were not associated with functional constipation. The Japanese traditional dietary pattern, characterized by a high intake of rice and a low intake of bread and confectionaries, may be beneficial in preventing functional constipation in young Japanese women.
17874830	To elucidate the effect of a typical Vietnamese diet including a high content of white rice on postprandial blood glucose levels, the present study was designed. Thirty healthy female subjects with a similar body mass index, 10 each in their twenties, forties and sixties, were recruited. Four meals with a similar protein energy percentage (13-15%) but different energy ratios of fat and carbohydrate (FC ratio) and vegetable contents were provided by cross-over design. Meal A was designed according to the commonly consumed diet in Vietnam. The FC ratio was 14:71 and 84 g of carbohydrate was from rice. Meal B contained carbohydrate in a lower ratio than meal A by fat replacement and its FC ratio was 30:57. Meal C was similar to meal A except lacking vegetables. The energy of meal A, B and C was about 2.1 MJ. Meal D was designed to match the amount of carbohydrate and fat within A and B, respectively. The FC ratio of meal D was 26:61 and the energy was about 2.4 MJ. Fasting blood glucose was measured before consumption of a test meal. Postprandial blood glucose was measured every 30 min for 2 h. Areas under the curve (AUC) were calculated to compare the glycemic response among the four test meals. There was no significant difference in AUC among the four test meals in the subjects in their twenties. In the subjects in their forties, the AUC of meal A tended to be lower than that of meal C (p = 0.07). In the subjects in their sixties, the AUC of meal A was significantly higher than that of meal B (p < 0.001). Glycemic responses showed a significant relationship with age (r = 0.26, p < 0.01); however, there was no association between glycemic responses and BMI (p = 0.20). Dietary fat ratios were inversely associated with glycemic responses (r = -0.28, p < 0.01). In conclusion, the diet with about 70% energy from carbohydrate which is commonly consumed by Vietnamese may increase glycemic response, especially in elderly people and dietary vegetables may be beneficial to prevent such an increase in glycemic response.
17875553	In rice (Oryza sativa L., var Nipponbare) seeds, there were three mRNAs encoding for function-unknown hydrolase family 31 homologous proteins (ONGX-H1, ONGX-H3 and ONGX-H4): ONGX-H1 mRNA was expressed in ripening stage and mRNAs of ONGX-H3 and ONGX-H4 were found in both the ripening and germinating stages [Nakai et al., (2007) Biochimie 89, 49-62]. This article describes that the recombinant proteins of ONGX-H1 (rONGXG-H1), ONGX-H3 (rONGXG-H3) and ONG-H4 (rONGXG-H4) were overproduced in Pichia pastoris as fusion protein with the alpha-factor signal peptide of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Purified rONGXG-H1 and rONGXG-H3 efficiently hydrolysed malto-oligosaccharides, kojibiose, nigerose and soluble starch, indicating that ONGX-H1 and ONGX-H3 are alpha-glucosidases. Their substrate specificities were similar to that of ONG2, a main alpha-glucosidase in the dry and germinating seeds. The rONGXG-H1 and rONGX-H3 demonstrated the lower ability to adsorb to and degradation of starch granules than ONG2 did, suggesting that three alpha-glucosidases, different in action to starch granules, were expressed in ripening stage. Additionally, purified rONGXG-H4 showed the high activity towards alpha-xylosides, in particular, xyloglucan oligosaccharides. The enzyme hardly hydrolysed alpha-glucosidic linkage, so that ONGX-H4 was an alpha-xylosidase. Alpha-xylosidase encoded in rice genome was found for the first time.
17875814	Crop improvement in terms of yield is rarely linked to leaf photosynthesis. However, in certain crop plants such as rice, it is predicted that an increase in photosynthetic rate will be required to support future grain yield potential. In order to understand the relationships between yield improvement and leaf photosynthesis, controlled environment conditions were used to grow 10 varieties which were released from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) between 1966 and 1995 and one newly developed line. Two growth light intensities were used: high light (1500 micromol m(-2) s(-1)) and low light (300 micromol m(-2) s(-1)). Gas exchange, leaf protein, chlorophyll, and leaf morphology were measured in the ninth leaf on the main stem. A high level of variation was observed among high light-grown plants for light-saturated photosynthetic rate per unit leaf area (P(max)), stomatal conductance (g), content of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase (Rubisco), and total leaf protein content. Notably, between 1966 and 1980 there was a decline in P(max), g, leaf protein, chlorophyll, and Rubisco content. Values recovered in those varieties released after 1980. This striking trend coincides with a previous published observation that grain yield in IRRI varieties released prior to 1980 correlated with harvest index whereas that for those released after 1980 correlated with biomass. P(max) showed significant correlations with both g and Rubisco content. Large differences were observed between high light- and low light-grown plants (photoacclimation). The photoacclimation 'range' for P(max) correlated with P(max) in high light-grown plants. It is concluded that (i) leaf photosynthesis may be systematically affected by breeding strategy; (ii) P(max) is a useful target for yield improvements where yield is limited by biomass production rather than partitioning; and (iii) the capacity for photoacclimation is related to high P(max) values.
17876344	Phospholipase D (PLD) plays a critical role in plant growth and development, as well as in hormone and stress responses. PLD encoding genes constitute a large gene family that are present in higher plants. There are 12 members of the PLD family in Arabidopsis thaliana and several of them have been functionally characterized; however, the members of the PLD family in Oryza sativa remain to be fully described. Through genome-wide analysis, 17 PLD members found in different chromosomes have been identified in rice. Protein domain structural analysis reveals a novel subfamily, besides the C2-PLDs and PXPH-PLDs, that is present in rice - the SP-PLD. SP-PLD harbors a signal peptide instead of the C2 or PXPH domains at the N-terminus. Expression pattern analysis indicates that most PLD-encoding genes are differentially expressed in various tissues, or are induced by hormones or stress conditions, suggesting the involvement of PLD in multiple developmental processes. Transgenic studies have shown that the suppressed expression of rice PLD beta 1 results in reduced sensitivity to exogenous ABA during seed germination. Further analysis of the expression of ABA signaling-related genes has revealed that PLD beta 1 stimulates ABA signaling by activating SAPK, thus repressing GAmyb expression and inhibiting seed germination.
17876531	Bacillus licheniformis was grown for 48 h at 37 degrees C in solid state fermentation; a maximum of 1.7 x 10(11) spores/g dry substrate were obtained using rice straw powder (300 g/kg) and wheat bran (700 g/kg) supplemented with glucose (40 g/kg), peptone (20 g/kg), yeast extract (20 g/kg), KH(2)PO(4) (10 g/kg) and CaO (5 g/kg) with an initial moisture content of 65%.
17877235	This case-control study assessed the effects of pesticide use on semen characteristics among rice farmers of Kienxuong District, Thaibinh Province, Vietnam. Semen samples of 1,036 rice farmers were obtained by manual masturbation and screened at Commune Health Stations. Of these, 156 abnormal semen samples were identified; 314 rice farmers with normal semen were recruited as controls. The semen characteristics (volume, sperm concentration, total sperm count, motility, vitality and morphology) of the cases were considerably poorer than the controls. Factors associated with abnormal semen after adjusting for age, smoking and alcohol drinking by logistic regression were: distance of less than 300 meters from household to rice fields and duration of work over 10 years as a farmer (adjusted OR = 3.16, 95% Cl: 1.97-5.05 and adjusted OR = 3.98, 95% Cl: 2.20-7.21, respectively). Rice farmers without personal protective equipment (PPE) when spraying pesticides and without pesticide training (adjusted OR = 3.05, Cl: 1.92-4.85 and adjusted OR = 1.90, Cl: 1.14-3.16, respectively) were also at risk for abnormal semen compared to controls. These findings showed the strength of association between pesticide use and abnormal semen characteristics among rice farmers in Kienxuong District, Thaibinh Province, Vietnam.
17877240	This study aimed to investigate the effects of some snack foods on plaque pH in children with different levels of mutans streptococci (MS). Six children, aged 9-12 years, with low (<10(4)) and 6 children, aged 10-12 years, with high (>106) numbers of MS/ml saliva participated in the study. Dental plaque pH changes, after the consumption of milk chocolate, sweet biscuit, instant noodle, sticky rice with banana and a 10% sucrose positive control were measured using pH-electrode. The measurements of plaque pH were made on forty-eight-hour accumulated plaque, at baseline to determine the resting pH of the fasted plaque and at time intervals of 2, 5, 10, 20 and 30 minutes after food consumption. The plaque pH curves, delta pH values and area under curve for pH 6.0 for each test food were determined. Plaque acidogenicity was more pronounced for the high-MS group at almost all test periods compared to the low-MS group with all test foods. The test foods were ranked according to maximum pH drop in about the same order in both groups as follows: 10% sucrose > milk chocolate > sweet biscuit > sticky rice with banana > instant noodle. The plaque pH also stayed below pH 6.00 for a longer period in the high-MS group with sweet biscuit, milk chocolate, and sticky rice with banana. Findings suggest that pH responses were more acidic in high-MS group than low-MS group.
17877706	The Actin Depolymerizing Factor (ADF) gene family of Arabidopsis thaliana encodes 11 functional protein isovariants in four ancient subclasses. We report the characterization of the tissue-specific and developmental expression of all Arabidopsis ADF genes and the subcellular localization of several protein isovariants. The four subclasses exhibited distinct expression patterns as examined by qRT-PCR and histochemical assays of a GUS reporter gene under the control of individual ADF regulatory sequences. Subclass I ADFs were expressed strongly and constitutively in all vegetative and reproductive tissues except pollen. Subclass II ADFs were expressed specifically in mature pollen and pollen tubes or root epidermal trichoblast cells and root hairs, and these patterns evolved from an ancient dual expression pattern comprised of both polar tip growth cell types, still observed in the monocot Oryza sativa. Subclass III ADFs were expressed weakly in vegetative tissues, but were strongest in fast growing and/or differentiating cells including callus, emerging leaves, and meristem regions. The single subclass IV ADF was constitutively expressed at moderate levels in all tissues, including pollen. Immunocytochemical analysis with subclass-specific monoclonal antibodies demonstrated that subclass I isovariants localize to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus of leaf cells, while subclass II isovariants predominantly localize to the cytoplasm at the tip region of elongating root hairs and pollen tubes. The distinct expression patterns of the ADF subclasses support a model of ADF s co-evolving with the ancient and divergent actin isovariants.
17877710	Genes that control ovule identity were first identified in Petunia. Co-suppression of both FLORAL BINDING PROTEIN 7 (FBP7) and FBP11, two D-lineage genes, resulted in the homeotic transformation of ovules into carpelloid structures. Later in Arabidopsis it was shown that three genes, SHATTERPROOF1 (SHP1), SHP2, and SEEDSTICK (STK), redundantly control ovule identity, because in the stk shp1 shp2 triple mutant ovules lose identity and are transformed into carpel and leaf-like structures. Of these three Arabidopsis genes STK is the only D-lineage gene, and its expression, like FBP7 and FBP11, is restricted to ovules. OsMADS13 is the rice ortholog of STK, FBP7, and FBP11. Its amino acid sequence is similar to the Arabidopsis and Petunia proteins, and its expression is also restricted to ovules. We show that the osmads13 mutant is female sterile and that ovules are converted into carpelloid structures. Furthermore, making carpels inside carpels, the osmads13 flower is indeterminate, showing that OsMADS13 also has a function in floral meristem determinacy. OsMADS21 is most likely to be a paralog of OsMADS13, although its expression is not restricted to ovules. Interestingly, the osmads21 mutant did not show any obvious phenotype. Furthermore, combining the osmads13 and the osmads21 mutants did not result in any additive ovule defect, indicating that osmads21 does not control ovule identity. These results suggest that during evolution the D-lineage gene OsMADS21 has lost its ability to determine ovule identity.
17877838	It was proposed that differentially-expressed genes, aside from genetic variations affecting protein processing and functioning, between hybrid and its parents provide essential candidates for studying heterosis or hybrid vigor. Based our serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) data from an elite Chinese super-hybrid rice (LYP9) and its parental cultivars (93-11 and PA64s) in three major tissue types (leaves, roots and panicles) at different developmental stages, we analyzed the transcriptome and looked for candidate genes related to rice heterosis. By using an improved strategy of tag-to-gene mapping and two recently annotated genome assemblies (93-11 and PA64s), we identified 10,268 additional high-quality tags, reaching a grand total of 20,595 together with our previous result. We further detected 8.5% and 5.9% physically-mapped genes that are differentially-expressed among the triad (in at least one of the three stages) with P-values less than 0.05 and 0.01, respectively. These genes distributed in 12 major gene expression patterns; among them, 406 up-regulated and 469 down-regulated genes (P < 0.05) were observed. Functional annotations on the identified genes highlighted the conclusion that up-regulated genes (some of them are known enzymes) in hybrid are mostly related to enhancing carbon assimilation in leaves and roots. In addition, we detected a group of up-regulated genes related to male sterility and 442 down-regulated genes related to signal transduction and protein processing, which may be responsible for rice heterosis. We improved tag-to-gene mapping strategy by combining information from transcript sequences and rice genome annotation, and obtained a more comprehensive view on genes that related to rice heterosis. The candidates for heterosis-related genes among different genotypes provided new avenue for exploring the molecular mechanism underlying heterosis.
17878271	A 28-d trial was conducted to evaluate the effect of the main cereal of the diet (corn or rice), heat processing (HP) of rice, and the degree of starch gelatinization (SG) of rice on apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD) of dietary components and productive performance of pigs weaned at 25 d of age. The experimental design was a completely randomized, with 4 treatments and 8 replicates per treatment (5 pigs penned together). Control pigs were fed a complex diet without growth promoters and based on milk products, fish meal, and 50% cooked and flaked corn, with a degree of SG of 84%. Experimental groups received the same complex diet as the control group, but the corn was substituted by rice with 3 different degrees of SG; 11% that corresponded to raw rice and 52 or 76% that corresponded to cooked rice processed under 2 different conditions. Pig growth was measured at 25, 39, and 53 d of age, and ATTD was determined at 29, 39, and 53 d of age. The ATTD of all dietary components except for N increased with age (P <0.01) and were greater for the rice than for the corn diet. Heat processing of rice improved ATTD of all dietary components at 29 d of age, but no beneficial effects were observed at 39 or 53 d of age. Modifying the conditions of HP to increase the degree of SG of rice from 52 to 76% and to reduce mean particle size from 480 to 405 mum did not result in further improvement of nutrient digestibility. From 25 to 53 d of age, pigs fed rice consumed more feed (678 vs. 618 g/d; P <0.05), grew faster (466 vs. 407 g/d; P <0.01), and tended to have greater G:F (0.685 vs. 0.662; P <0.10) than pigs fed corn. In fact, from 25 to 39 d of age, pigs fed rice consumed 23% more feed (P <0.01), grew 29% faster (P <0.01), and had 5% greater G:F (P <0.05) than pigs fed corn. Feeding rice improved performance of weanling pigs, and HP of rice under mild conditions enhanced diet digestibility and productive performance of pigs. Severe processing of rice increased the degree of SG but did not further improve diet digestibility or growth performance.
17878545	This short review outlines the tandem mass spectrometric methods for the generation and analysis of transient nucleobase radicals relevant to deoxyribonucleic acid and ribonucleic acid damage. Radical hydrogen atom adducts to uracil, adenine, cytosine and N-methylcytosine were generated by femtosecond electron transfer to the corresponding gas-phase cations in fast beams at 8 keV kinetic energy. Radical unimolecular dissociations were monitored by product analysis following collisional ionization to cations or anions using neutralization-reionization mass spectrometry. The radical energetics and dissociation kinetics were further analyzed by mapping the potential energy surfaces by high-level ab initio calculations in combination with Rice-Remsberger-Kassel-Marcus calculations of unimolecular rate constants. This first- principles-based approach allows one to model radical dissociations occurring from doublet ground electronic states of radical intermediates, assign reaction mechanisms and derive quantitative branching ratios for dissociation channels that are in agreement with experiments. Theoretical analysis also provides distinction between radical dissociations occurring on the ground and excited electronic state potential energy surfaces. Specific characterization of excited state dissociations of nucleobase and other polyatomic radicals remains a challenging topic for both experimentalists and computational chemists.
17878587	A simple and sensitive flow-injection on-line separation and preconcentration system coupled to hydride generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry (HG-AFS) was developed for ultra-trace lead determination in water, wine, and rice samples, with the salient advantages of its minimization of transition-metal interferences and tolerance to an ethanol matrix. A lead hydroxide precipitate was achieved by the on-line merging of a sample and an ammonium buffer solution and collected onto the inner walls of a knotted reactor (KR). Removal of the residual solution from KR was achieved by air flow, and dissolution of the precipitate was carried out by using 0.2 mol l(-1) HCl. With a sample consumption of 11.7 ml, an enhancement factor of 16 was obtained at a sample throughput of 30 h(-1). The limit of detection (3s) was 16 ng l(-1) and the precision (RSD) for 1.0 microg l(-1) Pb was 3.4%.
17879070	Moso bamboo (Phyllostachys pubescens) is one of the world's most important bamboo species. It has the largest area of all planted bamboo--over two-thirds of the total bamboo forest area--and the highest economic value in China. Moso bamboo is a tetraploid (4x=48) and a special member of the grasses family. Although several genomes have been sequenced or are being sequenced in the grasses family, we know little about the genome of the bambusoids (bamboos). In this study, the moso bamboo genome size was estimated to be about 2034 Mb by flow cytometry (FCM), using maize (cv. B73) and rice (cv. Nipponbare) as internal references. The rice genome has been sequenced and the maize genome is being sequenced. We found that the size of the moso bamboo genome was similar to that of maize but significantly larger than that of rice. To determine whether the bamboo genome had a high proportion of repeat elements, similar to that of the maize genome, approximately 1000 genome survey sequences (GSS) were generated. Sequence analysis showed that the proportion of repeat elements was 23.3% for the bamboo genome, which is significantly lower than that of the maize genome (65.7%). The bamboo repeat elements were mainly Gypsy/DIRS1 and Ty1/Copia LTR retrotransposons (14.7%), with a few DNA transposons. However, more genomic sequences are needed to confirm the above results due to several factors, such as the limitation of our GSS data. This study is the first to investigate sequence composition of the bamboo genome. Our results are valuable for future genome research of moso and other bamboos.
17879160	Deterministic and probabilistic risk analyses were carried out for seven hydrographic basins in the State of Santa Catarina (Brazil), where irrigated rice is cultivated. Monitoring studies conducted in 1998/1999 and 1999/2000 had found that the herbicide quinclorac was the most frequently detected agrochemical residue, occurring in five of the seven hydrographic basins. In order to assess the ecological risk posed by quinclorac, median lethal concentration (LC(50)) and median effective concentration (EC(50)) data were obtained for quinclorac in toxicity tests with organisms routinely used in Brazil for this purpose. Experiments were carried out on microcosms associated with the irrigated rice crop to evaluate the effects of the herbicide on the natural plankton community. The deterministic analyses showed that the risk presented by the herbicide residues to the phytoplankton require mitigating action, while the probabilistic analysis revealed that the levels of risk for the aquatic community were acceptable. Field experiments showed that the recommended application concentration of the product directly affects phytoplankton and has an indirect, short-term effect on the zooplankton community.
17879742	Phellinone, a new furanone derivative, has been isolated from the stem-cooked rice culture broth of Phellinus linteus KT&GPL-2. Phellinone was purified by consecutive solvent partition, silica gel, preparative TLC and preparative HPLC. The structure of phellinone was assigned as a furanone derivative on the basis of various spectroscopic analyses, including Mass and NMR spectroscopies. Its molecular weight and formula were found to be 248 and C15H20O3, respectively, and showed antimicrobial activity against Bacillus subtilis IAM 1090.
17880511	UV-B irradiated rice leaves (Oryza sativa L.) contained four closely related flavonoids, with either an isoorientin or isovitexin aglycone. These flavonoids have previously been purified and characterized, and were added to artificial diets of the African bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera Hbner) at 0.1x concentration found in irradiated rice leaves. Consumption of different diets had relatively small effects on laval, pupal and adult duration, weight and survival, indicating the insects lived near normal life cycles on all diets. However, one of the compounds, flavonoid IIa, isovitexin-2''-O-beta-[6-O-E-p-coumaroylglucopyranoside], dramatically reduced the number of fertile eggs laid to 7% of control insects (P<0.001) when added to insect diets at 18 nmol gFW(-1) (14 ppm). A similar antifertility effect was observed when only the male partner consumed diet containing flavonoid IIa, indicating that the reduced fertility may be male specific. In contrast, the fecundity and fertility of insects eating diets containing the closely related flavonoids, isoorientin-2''-O-beta-[6-O-E-p-coumaroylglucopyranoside] or isoorientin-2''-O-beta-[6-O-E-p-feruloylglucopyranoside], were not significantly different to control diets.
17881383	Epidemiologic data suggest that consumption of whole-grain products may be inversely associated with risk of pancreatic cancer. Grain intake was examined in a population-based case-control study of pancreatic cancer in the San Francisco Bay Area (1995-1999). A 131-item semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire was administered to 532 cases and 1,701 controls. Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals were computed as estimates of relative risk. Persons who consumed > or =2 servings of whole grains daily had a lower risk of pancreatic cancer than persons who consumed <1 serving/day (odds ratio (OR) = 0.60, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.31, 1.2; trend-p = 0.04). Similar results were observed for brown rice (OR = 0.72, 95% CI: 0.44, 1.2; trend-p = 0.01) and tortillas (OR = 0.56, 95% CI: 0.35, 0.89; trend-p = 0.02). Consumption of doughnuts (> or =2 servings/week vs. <1 serving/month) conferred increased risk (OR = 1.8, 95% CI: 1.2, 2.7; trend-p = 0.003). Consumption of cooked breakfast cereals (> or =2 servings/week vs. <1 serving/month) was positively associated with risk (for oatmeal/oat bran, OR = 1.3, 95% CI: 1.0, 1.7; for other cooked breakfast cereals, OR = 2.1, 95% CI: 1.4, 3.3). Dietary fiber was inversely associated with risk (for highest quartile vs. lowest, OR = 0.65, 95% CI: 0.47, 0.89; trend-p = 0.02). These data provide some support for the hypothesis that consuming more whole-grain or high-fiber foods may reduce the risk of pancreatic cancer. Refined grains were not associated with risk.
17881564	Freshwater is a limited and dwindling global resource; therefore, efficient water use is required for food crops that have high water demands, such as rice, or for the production of sustainable energy biomass. We show here that expression of the Arabidopsis HARDY (HRD) gene in rice improves water use efficiency, the ratio of biomass produced to the water used, by enhancing photosynthetic assimilation and reducing transpiration. These drought-tolerant, low-water-consuming rice plants exhibit increased shoot biomass under well irrigated conditions and an adaptive increase in root biomass under drought stress. The HRD gene, an AP2/ERF-like transcription factor, identified by a gain-of-function Arabidopsis mutant hrd-D having roots with enhanced strength, branching, and cortical cells, exhibits drought resistance and salt tolerance, accompanied by an enhancement in the expression of abiotic stress associated genes. HRD overexpression in Arabidopsis produces thicker leaves with more chloroplast-bearing mesophyll cells, and in rice, there is an increase in leaf biomass and bundle sheath cells that probably contributes to the enhanced photosynthesis assimilation and efficiency. The results exemplify application of a gene identified from the model plant Arabidopsis for the improvement of water use efficiency coincident with drought resistance in the crop plant rice.
17881678	The effects of varying concentrations (2, 4, and 6%) of 2 types of rice flours (RF 1 and RF 2) on the physicochemical properties and sensory characteristics of vanilla ice cream samples were assessed at different fat levels (0, 4, and 10%) and storage conditions (control vs. heat-shocked). Fat and total solids were measured as well as hardness, viscosity, and melting rate. Eight trained panelists conducted descriptive sensory analyses of the samples at 0 and 7 wk. The 2% rice flour level and to a certain extent the 4% usage level generally improved texture while affecting to a lesser extent the flavor characteristics of the samples compared with the control. The RF 2 generally had a more significant effect than RF 1, especially on the texture attributes. Although the rice flour reduced the negative impact of temperature abuse on textural properties, the samples still deteriorated in textural properties (more icy) under temperature abuse conditions. In addition, rice starch does lower perceived sweetness and can have a "flour flavor" at high usage levels. The use of rice flour appears to be most advantageous for low fat ice cream samples.
17882135	An understanding of the relationships between dietary habits and supplement use or smoking is useful for aetiological studies and surveillance purposes. The objective of this study is to describe dietary patterns associated with vitamin/mineral supplement use and smoking habits in French women. Scores for dietary patterns were obtained by factor analysis in 64,252 women from the French E3N-EPIC cohort. The association with supplement and tobacco use was investigated by logistic regression analysis. We identified three dietary patterns: 'processed meat/starchy foods' (fast foods, processed meat, rice/pasta/semolina and cakes and few vegetables); 'fruit/vegetables' (fruits, vegetables, seafood, vegetable oils and yoghurt); and 'alcohol/meat products' (alcohol, meat and meat products, and coffee, and few fruits and soup). Supplement use was positively associated with the fruit/vegetables pattern (multivariate OR for quartile 4 versus 1 (OR(4))=1.55, 95% confidence interval: 1.47-1.63), and inversely associated with the processed meat/starchy foods (OR(4)=0.84; 0.80-0.89) and alcohol/meat products (OR(4)=0.69; 0.66-0.73) patterns (P trend for all associations <0.0001). As compared with never smoking, current smoking was inversely associated with the fruit/vegetables pattern (OR(4)=0.85; 0.78-0.92), while former smoking was positively associated with the fruit/vegetables pattern (OR(4)=1.32; 1.25-1.40); both current and former smoking were inversely associated with the processed meat/starchy foods pattern (OR(4)=0.57; 0.53-0.62 and 0.64; 0.60-0.67, respectively); whereas current and former smoking were both strongly positively associated with the alcohol/meat products pattern (OR(4)=5.78; 5.26-6.36 and 2.03; 1.91-2.15, respectively); P trend for all associations was <0.001. Supplement use and smoking are strongly associated with dietary patterns.
17882531	To test the possibility of producing a novel hepatitis B vaccine in plants, the modified hepatitis B virus (HBV) surface antigen (HBsAg) gene SS1 was expressed in rice under the control of the seed-specific Glub-4 promoter. The SS1 gene encodes a fusion protein consisting of amino acids 21-47 of the hepatocyte receptor-binding presurface 1 region (preS1) fused to the truncated C-terminus of the major HBV surface (S) protein. The production of antibodies against the preS1 region acts to protect humans against HBV infection by preventing HBV from binding to hepatocytes. The presence of SS1 in the genome of transgenic rice was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis, and RNA dot blot analysis indicated that the fused SS1 gene was specifically expressed in rice seeds, with the highest expression level being about 31.5 ng/g dry weight grain. Western blot analysis revealed that the recombinant SS1 protein could be specifically recognized by both an anti-S protein antibody and an anti-preS1 antibody. The recombinant SS1 protein was also observed to form virus-like particles with a diameter of about 22 nm and a density of 1.25 g cm(-3). Furthermore, immunological responses against both the S and preS1 epitopes were induced in BALB/c mice immunized with the recombinant SS1 protein, indicating that this rice-derived SS1 protein could be a promising candidate as an alternative HBV vaccine for preventing hepatitis B.
17883002	Mosquito-borne diseases are a major public health threat in Asia. To explore effective mosquito control strategies in rice ecosystems from the ecological point of view, we carried out ecological analyses of vector mosquitoes in Sri Lanka. During the 18-month study period, 14 Anopheles, 11 Culex, 5 Aedes, 2 Mansonia, and 1 Armigeres species were collected, most of which are disease vectors for malaria, filariasis, Japanese encephalitis, or dengue in Sri Lanka and elsewhere in Asia. The density and occurrence of Anopheles and Culex species were the highest in seepage pools and paddy fields, where the majority of niche overlaps between larval mosquito and aquatic insect species were observed. All 7 aquatic insect species, which are larval mosquito predators, overlapped their niche with both Anopheles and Culex larvae. This suggests that conserving these aquatic insect species could be effective in controlling mosquito vectors in the study site. Correlations between several climatic factors and mosquito density were also analyzed, and weather conditions, including higher temperature, lower relative humidity, and higher wind velocity, were found to affect mosquito oviposition, propagation, and survival. These findings deepen our understanding of mosquito ecology and will strengthen future mosquito control strategies in rice ecosystems in Asia.
17883686	We have previously reported the production of a rice cell line tolerant to the acetolactate synthase (ALS)-inhibiting herbicide bispyribac (BS), and demonstrated that the BS-tolerant phenotype was due to a double mutation in the rice ALS gene. We further indicated that while changing either of the two amino acids (W548 L or S627I) individually resulted in a BS-tolerant phenotype, conversion of both amino acids simultaneously conferred increased tolerance to BS. As the BS-tolerant cell line had lost the ability to regenerate during two years of tissue culture selection, we attempted to introduce these two point mutations into the rice ALS gene via gene targeting (GT). Using our highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system in rice, we were able to regenerate 66 independent GT rice plants from 1500 calli. Furthermore, two-thirds of these plants harbored the two point mutations exclusively, without any insertion of foreign DNA such as border sequences of T-DNA. The GT plants obtained in the present study are therefore equivalent to non-GM herbicide-tolerant rice plants generated by conventional breeding approaches that depend on spontaneous mutations. Surprisingly, GT rice homozygous for the modified ALS locus showed hyper-tolerance to BS when compared to BS-tolerant plants produced by a conventional transgenic system; ALS enzymatic activity in plants homozygous for the mutated ALS gene was inhibited only by extremely high concentrations of BS. These results indicate that our GT method has successfully created novel herbicide-tolerant rice plants that are superior to those produced by conventional mutation breeding protocols or transgenic technology.
17884044	It has been shown that overexpression of MIR156b/c resulted in a bushy phenotype in maize and rice. Our results indicated that the MIR156b/c locus was highly conserved among cereals, but not in dicots and that genome duplication events played an important role in the evolution of the miR156 family. Genetic diversity investigation at the locus indicated that only approximately 9% of nucleotide diversity observed in wild rice (O. rufigogon) was maintained in the cultivated rice and the neutral model was rejected (P<0.05) based on Tajima's D and Fu and Li's D(*) and F(*) tests. To our knowledge, this is the first example of miRNA gene to be targeted by both natural and domestication selection in plants.
17884692	Particle bombardment transformation using minimal gene cassette (containing the promoter, open reading frame and terminator) is the novel trend in plant genetic transformation, and its use helps to alleviate the undesirable effects of plasmid vector backbone sequences on transgenic plants. In the present article, studies related to the hereditary behavior of bar gene cassette in T(1) to T(3) generations of the transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) lines transformed by particle bombardment have been discussed. The selectable marker bar gene cassette that integrated with the rice genome had multiple copies and showed complex segregation behaviors including the presence of 'false homozygotes', with abnormal segregation ratios ranging from 35:1 to 144:1 (Basta-resistant: sensitive plants) in their progenies. In five out of ten original transgenic lines, bar gene can be stably transmitted as a dominant gene to self-pollinated T(2) progeny. The homozygotes were obtained in three transgenic lines in T(1) generation regardless of the multiple-copy integration patterns of bar gene. Southern blotting analysis showed that multiple copies of bar gene cassette were linked, which formed transgene arrays in the host rice genome. The authors also observed stable transmission of integration patterns of bar gene cassette, as obtained from Southern blotting analysis, in the regularly segregated transgenic rice lines and loss of gene in an irregularly segregated transgenic line. The segregation behavior varied among the transgenic progenies that exhibited similar Southern hybridization patterns of bar gene. On the basis of these results, the multiple-copy integration, gene lost, and gene expression interaction were the major reasons for the complex segregation behaviors of bar gene cassette in transgenic rice plants.
17885721	Rice is a dietary staple worldwide, especially pre-germinated brown rice has recently been widely served in Japan because of its abundant nutrition. Relationship between lactation and pre-germinated brown rice has attracted interest in terms of mental health and immunity. To demonstrate that Japanese foods are beneficial for psychosomatic health, the effects of pre-germinated brown rice on the mental status and immunological features during lactation were investigated. Forty-one breast-feeding mothers were recruited, and randomly divided into two groups. One group took pre-germinated brown rice and the other white rice (control) as their staple diet for 2 weeks. The Profile of Mood States (POMS) and salivary amylase activity as psychological indices and secretory IgA (s-IgA) and lactoferrin (LTF) in breast milk as immunological indices were determined before and after dietary intervention, and changes were investigated. In the psychological assessment, the scores of depression, anger-hostility, and fatigue were decreased on POMS analysis in the pre-germinated brown rice diet group, resulting in a significant decrease in total mood disturbance (TMD). The salivary amylase activity measurement suggested that resistance to stress was increased in the pre-germinated brown rice diet group. On the immunological assessment, the s-IgA level was significantly increased in the pre-germinated brown rice diet group. We have shown that pre-germinated brown rice may have beneficial effects on psychosomatic health.
17885956	We describe the ecological niche of the human and animal pathogen Pythium insidiosum within endemic agricultural areas of Thailand. Samples were collected from irrigation water, including rice paddy fields, irrigation channels and reservoirs. Zoospores of P. insidiosum were captured from water by the use of a sterile human hair baiting technique. Pythium isolates were identified based on phenotypic characteristics and by using a specific PCR assay for P. insidiosum. In addition, internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of P. insidiosum rDNA were sequenced and used in the phylogenetic analysis of 20 other known P. insidiosum DNA sequences available in the database and 11 related DNA sequences of other Pythium species including Lagenidium giganteum. The sequences of 59 environmental isolates of Pythium spp. recovered from Thailand confirmed 99% identity to P. insidiosum. Three well supported phylogenetic groups within P. insidiosum were found. The protein profiles of P. insidiosum environmental strains were determined and compared with reference strains. A typical 45-30 kDa band was consistently found in all isolates of P. insidiosum but not in closely related Pythium species. This study provides the first evidence for the natural occurrence of P. insidiosum in endemic aquatic environments. The highest recovery rate of this hydrophilic pathogen was found to be from water reservoirs and our data show that irrigation water may be an important source of P. insidiosum infection for individuals working in endemic agricultural areas.
17886084	The aim of the study was to examine whether powdered rice could be used as an anticaking agent in table salt. Salts free from anticaking food additives were selected and powdered rice was added at different concentrations (0%, 1%, 2%, 5%, 10% and 20%). The samples were placed away from direct light and airflow, and left exposed in the laboratory at room temperature and below 30% humidity. The weight of the samples was measured using an electronic laboratory balance and recorded daily for 4 days. At the end of the experiment, all the samples were dried at 105 C in order to determine exact dryness. All the salt samples containing powdered rice lost weight (0.560.08%), while the other salt samples free of powdered rice gained weight (10.310.63%) (P<0.001). A statistically significant difference was found between the first two (1% and 2%) and last three concentrations (5%, 10% and 20%) (P<0.001). Adding powdered rice to salt as an anticaking agent during salt manufacturing at a concentration of 1% could take the place of other anticaking food additives used in table salt production.
17886086	Food fortification with iron is effective in combating iron-deficiency anemia. As iron is reactive, it can destroy micronutrients, contribute to poor taste, and discolor the food. Encapsulation could be used to prevent the reaction of iron with food components. The stability of thiamin (vitamin B1) and its effects on organoleptic properties in Ultra Rice were investigated in the presence of encapsulated ferrous fumarate. The preparation of simulated rice grains did not affect the solubility of encapsulated ferrous fumarate in simulated gastric juice. After 20 weeks at 40 degrees C/ approximately 100% relative humidity, essentially all of the vitamin B1 and ferrous iron were retained. Antioxidants were effective in preventing the loss of thiamin and retarding oxidative rancidity catalyzed by ferrous iron. This study demonstrated the feasibility of incorporating both iron and vitamin B1 in a stable Ultra Rice formulation. Inclusion of other stable B vitamins in the formulation should be also feasible.
17886191	A multi-analyte method for the liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric determination of mycotoxins in crude grain extracts without clean-up has been applied to the analysis of spelt, rice and barley. Method performance characteristics were determined after spiking blank samples at multiple levels and were found to be comparable for all investigated matrices as regards linearity (linear calibration functions were obtained for all analyte/matrix combinations except for moniliformin), precision (coefficient of variations <6%) and sensitivity. Matrix-induced signal suppression/enhancement was studied in detail and varied significantly between the investigated matrices, as well as between individual samples (relative standard deviation was as high as 40% within three rice varieties) and individual toxins. It was concluded that a reliable quantitative analysis using matrix-matched calibration requires careful consideration of the model matrix, which should match the investigated samples as close as possible.
17886359	NIMA-related kinases (Neks) are a family of serine/threonine kinases that have been linked to cell-cycle regulation in fungi and mammals. Information regarding the function of Neks in plants is very limited. We screened the three plant species that have had their genomes sequenced in an attempt to improve our understanding of their role in plants. We retrieved seven members in Arabidopsis thaliana, nine in Populus trichocarpa and six in Oryza sativa. Phylogenetic analysis showed that plant Neks are closely related to each other and contain paralogous genes. Moreover, their chromosome distribution and their exon-intron structure revealed that the actual plant Nek family was derived from a single representative followed by large segmental duplication events. Functional expression analyses in the three species relied on RTqPCR in poplar and publicly available microarray data for Arabidopsis and rice. Although plant Neks are present in every organ analyzed, their expression profiles suggest their involvement in plant development processes. Furthermore, we showed that PNek1, a member of the poplar family, is expressed at sites of free auxin synthesis and is specifically involved during the vascularization process.
17886631	By using leakage pond to simulate the double cropping paddy fields in Dongtinghu Lake area, this paper studied the effects of urea (CF) and controlled release nitrogen fertilizer (CRNF) on the dynamics of surface water pH, electrical conductivity (EC), total nitrogen (TN), ammonia nitrogen (NH4(+)-N) and nitrate nitrogen (NO3(-)-N) and the runoff loss of TN in alluvial sandy loamy paddy soil and purple calcareous clayed paddy soil, the two main paddy soils in this area. The results showed that after applying urea, the surface water TN and NH4(+)-N concentrations reached the peak at the 1st and 3rd day, respectively, and decreased rapidly then. Surface water NO3(-)-N concentration was very low, though it showed a little raise at the 3rd to 7th day after applying urea in purple calcareous clayed paddy soil. In early rice field, surface water pH rose gradually within 15 days after applying urea, while in late rice field, it did within 3 days. EC kept consistent with the dynamics of NH4(+)-N. CRNF, especially 70% N CRNF, gave rise to distinctly lower surface water pH, EC, and TN and NH4(+)-N concentrations within 15 days after application, but NO3- concentration rose slightly at late growth stages, compared with urea application. The monitoring of TN runoff loss indicated that during double cropping rice growth season, the loss amount of TN under urea application was 7.70 kg x hm(-2), accounting for 2.57% of applied urea-N. The two runoff events occurred within 20 days after urea application contributed significantly to the TN runoff loss. CRNF application resulted in a significantly lower TN concentration in runoff water from the 1st runoff event occurred within 10 days of its application, and thereafter, the total TN runoff loss for CRNF and 70% N CRNF application was decreased by 24.5% and 27.2%, respectively, compared with urea application.
17886637	Based on high spatial resolution remote sensing map (1 m) and sampling with a stratified design on different site types, the effects of fine-scale land use patterns in villages on top soil (0-30 cm) organic carbon (OC), total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorus (TP) within and across the densely populated hilly landscapes, i. e., Sichuan Hilly Region (SIHR; Jintang County, Sichuan Province), Subtropical Hilly Region (SUHR; Yiyang County, Hunan Province), and Tropical Hilly Region (THR; Dianbai County, Guangdong Province), were investigated. The results showed that soil OC density was decreased in the order of SUHR (2.72 +/- 0.76 kg x m(-2)) > THR (2.65 +/- 0.73 kg x m(-2)) > SIHR (2.15 +/- 0.57 kg x m(-2)), TN density was in the order of SUHR (0.28 +/- 0.06 kg x m(-2)) > SIHR (0.27 +/- 0.06 kg x m(-2) > THR (0.21 +/- 0.06 kg x m(-2)), and TP density was in the order of SIHR (0.19 +/- 0.04 kg x m(-2)) > SUHR (0.11 +/- 0.03 kg x m(-2)) > THR (0.08 +/- 0.04 kg x m(-2)). The fine-scale landscape units (ecotopes) with the highest soil OC, TN and/or TP stocks were rainfed annual crops in SIHR, paddy rice in SUHR, and open canopy trees and brush in THR, respectively. In all hilly regions, paddy and forest land use classes had the highest soil OC and TN density, while mined areas had the lowest soil OC and TN density, with the distribution of TP density showing a more complicated pattern than that of OC and TN. Ecotope level analysis could reflect the soil organic carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus distribution in densely populated village landscape of hilly regions more comprehensively than land use or land cover analysis.
17886667	With 319 rice varieties as test objects, this paper studied the effects of cadmium on their seed germination. The results showed that after treated with 10 mg x L(-1) of Cd2+, seed germination rate was less affected, but root growth was restrained evidently. Cadmium had more serious impact on root than on sprout. Different rice varieties had different germination responses to Cd2+, with the sequence of conventional rice (Japonica rice) > hybrid rice (Indianica rice) > conventional rice (Indianica rice). The root length and number of two-line sterilities were restrained more strongly than those of three-line sterilities. Based on their responses to Cd2+, the test 319 varieties were clustered into 3 types, i.e., endurant type, medium type, and sensitive type.
17887933	Monascus isolate number 711, which is capable of producing monacolin K as an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, the key enzyme of cholesterol synthesis, was isolated from Ang-kak, the red yeast rice koji. To increase the monacolin K-producing activity of the strain, spore suspensions of the strain were subjected to gamma-irradiation. One thousand mutants were generated via gamma-irradiation and screened using bioassay and high performance liquid chromatography analysis. Several mutants with higher productivities of monacolin K than that of the parent strain were primarily selected. Mutant KU609 was finally selected because of its characteristics of high monacolin K production and non-citrinin-producing activity under our test conditions. Response surface methodology was used to analyze the effect of culture medium on the production of monacolin K in mixed solid-state cultures. The optimal values of nutritional ingredients for the maximal production were soytone, glucose, MgSO4, and barley at concentrations of 0.5 g, 0.48 g, 0.053 g, and 9 g, respectively. The final monacolin K production of Monascus KU609 was increased almost 100-fold compared to that of the parent strain.
17887969	Weedy red rice (Oryza sativa spontonea) is a persistent and problematic weed of rice culture worldwide. A major hypothesis for the mechanism of production of this weed in South and Southeast Asia is hybridization between cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) and wild rice (Oryza rufipogon). However, weedy red rice can often be found outside the range of O. rufipogon leaving questions on the origin and process behind weedy rice infestations. In the USA, weedy red rice was first documented as early as 1846 and has continued to affect rice production areas. In this study, we attempt to identify the origin and population structure of weedy red rice sampled from the USA using both DNA sequence data from a neutral nuclear locus as well as microsatellite genotype data. Results suggest that two major accessions of weedy rice exist, strawhull and blackhull, and these forms may both hybridize with the cultivated rice of the USA, O. sativa japonica. Using population assignment of multilocus genotype signatures with principal component analysis and structure, an Asian origin is supported for US weedy rice. Additionally, hybridization between strawhull and blackhull varieties was inferred and may present the opportunity for the production of new weedy forms in the future.
17888004	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight of rice. A random insertional mutant library of Xoo KACC10331 was constructed using a Tn5-derived transposon, and the virulence of the mutants against the susceptible rice cultivar IR24 was assayed. After the virulence assay, the M793 (purD::Tn5) mutant that had reduced virulence against the rice plants was isolated. Thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR and sequence analysis revealed that the transposon was inserted into the purD gene (encodes a phosphoribosylamine-glycine ligase) of the M793 mutant. The reverse transcriptase-PCR assay revealed that the mutation of the purD gene did not affect the expression of other purine biosynthesis genes. However, the M793 mutant required exogenous purines and thiamine for growth in minimal media. These results indicate that the purD gene plays a crucial role in the growth and virulence of Xoo.
17888111	For a better understanding of shoot branching in rice (Oryza sativa), a rice activation-tagging library was screened for mutations in tiller development. Here, an activation-tagging mutant Ostil1 (Oryza sativa tillering1) was characterized, which showed increased tillers, enlarged tiller angle and semidwarf phenotype. Flanking sequence was obtained by plasmid rescue. RNA-interfering and overexpression transgenic rice plants were produced using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The mutant phenotype was cosegregated with the reallocation of Ds element, and the flanking region of the reallocated Ds element was identified as part of the OsNAC2 gene. Northern analysis showed that expression of OsNAC2 was greatly induced in the mutant plants. Transgenic rice overexpressing the OsNAC2 resulted in recapture of the mutant phenotype, while downregulation of OsNAC2 in the Ostil1 mutant through RNA interfering (RNAi) complemented the mutant phenotype, confirming that the Ostil1 was caused by overexpression of OsNAC2. Overexpression of OsNAC2 regulates shoot branching in rice. Overexpression of OsNAC2 contributes tiller bud outgrowth, but does not affect tiller bud initiation. This suggests that OsNAC2 has potential utility for improving plant structure for higher light-use efficiency and higher yield potential in rice.
17888538	The Tapirap Amerindians of the Tapi'itwa tribe produce several fermented foods and beverages among them the beverage called 'cauim'. This beverage is the main staple food for infants until two years old and their parents. For producing the beverage, several substrates are used, such as: cassava, rice, corn, maize and peanuts. The fermentation using mainly cassava was accomplished and samples were collected for chemical and microbiological analysis. A progressive acidification during the fermentation was observed and pH value decreased from 5.5 to 3.4. Lactic acid was the most important fermentation metabolite found but significant amounts of ethanol and acetic acid were also observed. The microbial load was high at the beginning of the fermentation, bacterial population was about 6.8 log cfu/ml and yeast population was 3.7 log cfu/ml. A total of 355 bacteria were isolated and identified. All the isolates were grouped into Gram-negative (3.5%), Gram-positive non-sporulating (78%) and Gram-positive sporulating bacteria (18.5%). Lactic acid bacteria increased from the beginning of fermentation and became the dominant microorganism throughout the fermentation. Species of bacteria were varied and they were found to be Lactobacillus pentosus, L. plantarum, Corynebacterium xerosis, C. amylocolatum, C. vitarumen, Bacillus cereus, B. licheniformis, B. pumilus, B. circulans and Paenibacillus macerans. The species L. pentosus and L. plantarum were the dominant bacteria and were present in all the periods of evaluation of the samples.
17890081	To reduce nutrient cost for lactic acid production, rice bran, one of agricultural wastes, was chosen as a nutrient source in this study. Although rice bran is rich in protein and vitamins, the use of rice bran without any treatment was inefficient in lactic acid production. Rice bran was treated by acid-hydrolysis before it was put in experiment, when it was hydrolyzed at initial pH 1, 30 g/L rice bran could provide a productivity to that degree of about 8 g/L YE, showing such a desirable result that the use of rice bran as nutrient source would be a solution for reducing nutrient cost. However, the addition of hydrolyzed rice bran prolonged lag phase of fermentation, especially, in the fermentation with rice bran hydrolyzed at initial pH 0.5, a prolonged lag phase of about 40 h was observed. According to the quantitative determination of thiamine, pyridoxine, organic nitrogen and carbon, the prolongation of lag phase might be the result from the destruction of B vitamins and excessive hydrolysis of protein. To shorten the lag phase, combining hydrolyzed rice bran with yeast extract (YE) of small amount was considered to be a solution. When 3g/L YE was combined with 30 g/L rice bran hydrolyzed at initial pH 1, obtained was a productivity 1.6 times higher than that of the control fermentation with 15 g/L YE.
17890377	Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) Pto encodes a protein kinase that confers resistance to bacterial speck disease. A second protein kinase, Pti1, physically interacts with Pto and is involved in Pto-mediated defense signaling. Pti1-related sequences are highly conserved among diverse plant species, including rice (Oryza sativa), but their functions are largely unknown. Here, we report the identification of a null mutant for the Pti1 homolog in rice and the functional characterization of Os Pti1a. The rice pti1a mutant was characterized by spontaneous necrotic lesions on leaves, which was accompanied by a series of defense responses and resistance against a compatible race of Magnaporthe grisea. Overexpression of Pti1a in rice reduced resistance against an incompatible race of the fungus recognized by a resistance (R) protein, Pish. Plants overexpressing Pti1a were also more susceptible to a compatible race of the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae. These results suggest that Os Pti1a negatively regulates defense signaling for both R gene-mediated and basal resistance. We also demonstrated that repression of the rice RAR1 gene suppressed defense responses induced in the pti1a mutant, indicating that Pti1a negatively regulates RAR1-dependent defense responses. Expression of a tomato Pti1 cDNA in the rice pti1a mutant suppressed the mutant phenotypes. This contrasts strikingly with the previous finding that Sl Pti1 enhances Pto-mediated hypersensitive response (HR) induction when expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), suggesting that the molecular switch controlling HR downstream of pathogen recognition has evolved differently in rice and tomato.
17891459	The availability of diversified germplasm resources is the most important for developing improved rice varieties with higher seed yield or tolerance to various biotic or abiotic stresses. Here we report an efficient tool to create increased variations in rice by maize Ac/Ds transposon (a gene trap system) insertion mutagenesis. We have generated around 20,000 Ds insertion rice lines of which majority are homozygous for Ds element. We subjected these lines to phenotypic and abiotic stress screens and evaluated these lines with respect to their seed yields and other agronomic traits as well as their tolerance to drought, salinity and cold. Based on this evaluation, we observed that random Ds insertions into rice genome have led to diverse variations including a range of morphological and conditional phenotypes. Such differences in phenotype among these lines were accompanied by differential gene expression revealed by GUS histochemical staining of gene trapped lines. Among the various phenotypes identified, some Ds lines showed significantly higher grain yield compared to wild-type plants under normal growth conditions indicating that rice could be improved in grain yield by disrupting certain endogenous genes. In addition, several 1,000s of Ds lines were subjected to abiotic stresses to identify conditional mutants. Subsequent to these screens, over 800 lines responsive to drought, salinity or cold stress were obtained, suggesting that rice has the genetic potential to survive under abiotic stresses when appropriate endogenous genes were suppressed. The mutant lines that have higher seed yielding potential or display higher tolerance to abiotic stresses may be used for rice breeding by conventional backcrossing combining with molecular marker-assisted selection. In addition, by exploiting the behavior of Ds to leave footprints upon remobilization, we have shown an alternative strategy to develop new rice varieties without foreign DNA sequences in their genome.
17891549	Changes in plant architecture have been central to the domestication of wild species. Tillering or the degree of branching determines shoot architecture and is a key component of grain yield and/or biomass. Previously, a tiller inhibition mutant with monoculm phenotype was isolated and the mutant gene (tin3) was mapped in the distal region of chromosome arm 3AmL of Triticum monococcum. As a first step towards isolating a candidate gene for tin3, the gene was mapped in relation to physically mapped expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and sequence tag site (STS) markers developed based on synteny with rice. In addition, we investigated the relationship of the wheat region containing tin3 with the corresponding region in rice by comparative genomic analysis. Wheat ESTs that had been previously mapped to deletion bins provided a useful framework to identify closely related rice sequences and to establish the most likely syntenous region in rice for the wheat tin3 region. The tin3 gene was mapped to a 324-kb region spanned by two overlapping bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) of rice chromosome arm 1L. Wheat-rice synteny was exceptionally high at the tin3 region despite being located in the high-recombination, gene-rich region of wheat. Identification of tightly linked flanking EST and STS markers to the tin3 gene and its localization to highly syntenic rice BACs will assist in the future development of a high-resolution map and map-based cloning of the tin3 gene.
17891605	Here we have identified 18 different box C/D snoRNAs encoded in six new gene clusters by the screening of Oryza sativa (rice) genome sequences using a computer program that we have designed to search for non-canonical box C and D sequences. Among this snoRNA collection, five are homologues of snoRNAs previously reported in other plants. One snoRNA is implicated to guide methylation at a corresponding site also modified in yeast rRNA but not in any other plants species yet examined. The other 12 snoRNAs are implicated in guiding 12 completely novel rRNA 2'-O-ribose methylation sites. We have verified the methylation of these rRNA sites by dNTP-concentration dependent primer extension assay. The expression of all snoRNAs reported here was experimentally confirmed by primer extension assay. Polycistronic precursor transcripts from the gene clusters have been demonstrated by RT-PCR. Thus it is highly likely that each of the rice snoRNA gene clusters identified here is transcribed in a polycistronic way, regardless of whether or not they are encoded within introns. This indicates that the mode of polycistronic expression of snoRNA clusters is widespread in rice, as is the case in Arabidopsis thaliana.
17891976	A pot experiment was conducted to examine the roles of earthworm in As uptake from original As-polluted soil by maize (Zea mays L.), and their effects on As, P fractions in the rhizosphere. The As-polluted soils with three As levels were collected from the arable soil near As mine. The plants were harvested after 10 weeks of growth. Dry weight (DW) and P, As concentrations of plants, as well as As and P fractions of the rhizospheric soil, were determined. The results showed that inoculated earthworm or appended rice straw increased maximal 149%, 222% DW of root and shoot, respectively. At the medium and high soil As levels, root As concentration in the soil treated by earthworm and rice straw was highest among all treatments, and earthworm increased more As concentration of shoot than rice straw did. In different soil As levels, root P concentration in the soil treated by earthworm was highest, and shoot P by rice straw. Ca-P affected maize absorbing As at the low soil As level(r = 0.981), and maize absorbing Al-P was restrained by As involved in well-crystallized hydrous oxides of Fe and Al at the medium (r = 0.953)and high (r = 0.997)soil As levels. The concentration of non-specially absorbed As and As combined with Fe or Al and of O-P increased at the soil inoculated earthworm or/and appended rice straw at the same time. These results indicated that earthworm was more valuable for plant developing than rice straw was.
17892256	Defatted rice bran was extracted with water and subcritical water at 50-250 degrees C for 5 min. The highest extract yield was achieved at 200 degrees C, at which the maximum amounts of protein and carbohydrate were also obtained. The total phenolic and furfural contents, radical scavenging activity, and antioxidative activity for the autoxidation of linoleic acid increased with increasing treatment temperature. The bran extracts exhibited emulsifying activity except for the extract prepared at 250 degrees C, which was concomitant with the disappearance of its high-molecular-mass substances. The extract prepared at 200 degrees C also had the highest emulsion-stabilizing activity.
17892258	Microbial-stressed germination of black soybeans leads to generation of a group of oxylipins, oxooctadecadienoic acids (KODEs, including 13- Z, E-KODE, 13- E, E-KODE, 9- E, Z-KODE, and 9- E, E-KODE), and their respective glyceryl esters in addition to glyceollins, a known phytoalexins present in wild and fungi-infected soybeans. Four fungi, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, Rhizopus oligosporus, and white rice yeast (Aspergillus niger wry), were applied to compare their efficiency on inducing these compounds during black soybean germination. Overall, R. oligosporus, the starter culture used in tempeh fermentation, gives the highest amounts of KODEs and glyceollins. The glyceollins and KODEs were isolated by preparative HPLC, and the structures were determined by (1)H NMR, UV-Vis, and MS spectra. On the basis of the unequal distribution of the KODEs isomers, an enzymatic reaction, instead of a nonenzymatic free radical chain reaction, is responsible for their formations. Together with other oxylipins and glyceollins, the KODEs may contribute to the soybean's defensive response to fungal infection via reaction with protein thiol groups and cell membranes. The stress-germinated black soybeans may be used as ingredients for further processing of novel functional food products with unique nutritional and flavor profiles.
17893719	Mutations that result in plant male sterility provide means not only to probe reproductive development but also to facilitate commercial heterosis application and hybrid seed production. In this study, we report a novel male sterility gene, ms91(t), in a spontaneous mutant line (SH38) from a Chinese rice cultivar (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica 'Jijing14'). The sterility of SH38 was studied by examining its progenies derived from crosses with 6 japonica cultivars. Corresponding F2 populations were obtained by selfing each of the 6 F1s and a backcross population was produced by crossing SH38 to the F1 of SH38 x C18. Our results revealed that SH38 has normal agronomic traits but produces no pollen grains. Segregations of male-sterile and male-fertile progenies in the F2 and backcross populations fit well with ratios of 3:1 and 1:1, respectively, indicating that ms91(t) is a single recessive gene. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis of SH38 and Jijing14 plants showed the presence of a unique band in SH38. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) analysis of the bulked and individual progenies of the F2 population of SH38 x C18 showed linkage of ms91(t) with the SSR marker RM5853 on chromosome 1. Subsequently, ms91(t) was fine-mapped to the interval between markers RM7075 (3.75 cM) and RM5638 (3.57 cM). Our results would facilitate the isolation of ms91(t) and male sterility in heterosis application.
17893721	A dynamically rolled leaf mutant (rl10) was identified from a spontaneous mutation in an Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica line, II-32B. The leaf chlorophyll content of rl10 is higher than that of the wild type. Genetic analysis using 3 F2 segregating populations derived from crosses between rl10 and the rice lines Mian5B, II-32B, and D62B, respectively, confirmed that the rolled leaf trait of rl10 is controlled by a single recessive gene. Of 719 SSR primer pairs that showed polymorphism between D62B and rl10, 151 were adopted to map the RL10(t) gene using an F2 segregating population of the cross rl10 x D62B, which contained 352 recessive plants. RL10(t) was primarily mapped on the long arm of chromosome 9, 5.09 cM from marker RM105 and 5.13 cM from marker RM3912. Using a novel set of 22 primer pairs between RM105 and RM3912, RL10(t) was further mapped between markers rlc3 (0.72 cM in distance) and rlc12 (0.1 cM in distance) using an F2/F3 population containing 1172 recessive individuals. Mapped position analysis and homology analysis of the 20 genes within the 194-kb region between these 2 markers both indicated that a gene encoding a Myb-like domain transcription factor with homology to Arabidopsis KANADI (annotated in PAC clone AP005904) is the most probable candidate for RL10(t). This study enables further investigation of whether KANADI-like Myb genes are involved in leaf polarity modeling in monocots, as they are in dicots.
17893735	The three quantitative trait loci (qSH1, qSH3, and qSH4) causing reduction of seed shattering were investigated to examine their relative importance during rice domestication. The qSH1 and qSH4 loci showed a distinct effect on the reduction of shattering, compared with the qSH3 locus. Fine mapping and sequence analysis strongly suggested that the qSH1 and qSH4 loci are the same as the recently reported genes. A non-shattering allele at qSH1 drastically changed the shattering phenotype to a non-shattering phenotype even in the presence of shattering alleles at the qSH3 and qSH4 loci, showing that qSH1 is genetically epistatic to the other loci. The level of the reduction in sequence diversity was compared between the qSH1 and qSH4 regions. The sequence diversity was severely reduced in the qSH1 region of Oryza sativa subsp. japonica compared with that of O. sativa subsp. indica, despite that the level of diversity was similarly reduced at the qSH4 region in the 2 subspecies. Phylogenetic reconstruction based on the combined sequences of the flanking sites showed different patterns in the 2 subspecies. The 2 subspecies formed a single clade with respect to qSH4, whereas they were separated into different lineages with respect to qSH1, suggesting that these loci had different histories during rice domestication.
17894914	To report on the variety and total number of food items recorded by a true longitudinal group of urban black South African children (n = 143) from the Birth-to-Twenty Study at five interceptions at the ages of 5 (1995), 7 (1997), 9 (1999), 10 (2000) and 13 (2003) years, respectively. Dietary intake was assessed using a semi-quantitative food-frequency questionnaire. Frequencies were calculated per week, for each interception and for all five interceptions combined, using SAS. Five hundred and forty-six different individual food items were recorded 23 480 times for all five interceptions combined. The highest of 124 items was recorded in 1999 contributing 23% of the 546 items recorded. Each of the top 10 items (rice, stiff maize-meal porridge, chicken, sugar, sweets, tea, eggs, full-cream milk, carbonated beverages and oil) contributed between 2.5% and 3% and these items were recorded almost 600 times or more for all interceptions combined (n = 23 840). Rice and stiff maize-meal porridge were the top items recorded 684 and 676 times, both contributing 2.87% and 2.84%, respectively. The variety of food items and the ratio of the food groups to the total number of foods recorded in the present study were not significantly different but the denominators decreased over the five interceptions. The variety of food items recorded did not vary between 1995 and 2003 - the fact that new items were not added to the questionnaire as the children grew older could have contributed to this phenomenon. However, there was a difference in the ranking of these items that may suggest a change in eating patterns.
17895582	Class I and class II CPD photolyases are enzymes which repair pyrimidine dimers using visible light. A detailed characterization of class I CPD photolyases has been carried out, but little is known about the class II enzymes. Photolyases from rice are suitable for functional analyses because systematic breeding for long periods in Asian countries has led to the selection of naturally occurring mutations in the CPD photolyase gene. We report the biochemical characterization of rice mutant CPD photolyases purified as GST-form from Escherichia coli. We identified three amino acid changes, Gln126Arg, Gly255Ser, and Gln296His, among which Gln but not His at 296 is important for complementing phr-defective E. coli, binding UV-damage in E. coli, and binding thymine dimers in vitro. The photolyase with Gln at 296 has an apoenzyme:FAD ratio of 1 : 0.5 and that with His at 296 has an apoenzyme:FAD ratio of 1 : 0.12-0.25, showing a role for Gln at 296 in the binding of FAD not in the binding of thymine dimer. Concerning Gln or Arg at 126, the biochemical activity of the photolyases purified from E. coli and complementing activity for phr-defective E. coli are similarly proficient. However, the sensitivity to UV of cultivars differs depending on whether Gln or Arg is at 126. The role of Gln and Arg at 126 for photoreactivation in rice is discussed.
17895583	In the course of evolution, a gene is often duplicated in tandem, resulting in a functional redundancy. The analysis of function of these genes by raising double mutant might be difficult because they are very tightly linked. We described here a mutant of such a tandem duplicated gene. glu1 is a gamma-ray-induced rice mutant, which lacks an acidic subunit of glutelin, a major seed storage protein. We found that glu1 harbors a 129.7-kb deletion involving two highly similar and tandem repeated glutelin genes, GluB5 and GluB4. The deletion eliminated the entire GluB5 and GluB4 gene except half of the first exon of GluB5. GluB5 and GluB4 have the same amino acid sequence in the acidic subunit, suggesting that only the mutation involving both GluB5 and GluB4 results in the lack of the glutelin acidic subunit deleted in glu1. Our finding suggests that gamma-ray can be an effective mutagen to analyze tandem repeated and functionally redundant genes.
17895586	Senescence or cell death in plant leaves is known to be inducible by darkness or H(2)O(2). When the Arabidopsis gene MAX2/ORE9 is disrupted, leaf senescence or cell death in response to the above stimuli is delayed. Because the rice (Oryza sativa L.) gene DWARF3 (D3) is orthologous to MAX2/ORE9, we wished to know whether disruption of D3 also results in increased longevity in leaves. We found that darkness-induced senescence or H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in the third leaf [as measured by chlorophyll degradation, membrane ion leakage and expression of senescence-associated genes (SAGs)] in a d3 rice mutant was delayed by 1-3 d compared to that in its reference line Shiokari. Moreover, the mRNA levels of D3, HTD1 and D10, which are orthologs of Arabidopsis MAX2/ORE9, MAX3 and MAX4, respectively, increased during cell death. These results suggest that D3 protein in rice, like MAX2/ORE9 in Arabidopsis, is involved in leaf senescence or cell death.
17895884	To examine associations between dietary patterns and obesity. Cross-sectional study. A total of 3760 Japanese female dietetic course students aged 18-20 years from 53 institutions in Japan. Diet was assessed over a 1-month period with a validated self-administered diet history questionnaire with 148 food items, from which 30 food groups were created and entered into a factor analysis. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated from self-reported body height and weight. Mean BMI (+/-s.d.) was 20.9+/-2.8 kg m(-2). Four dietary patterns were identified. After adjustment for several confounding factors and total energy intake, the 'Healthy' pattern, characterized by high intakes of vegetables, mushrooms, seaweeds, potatoes, fish and shellfish, soy products, processed fish, fruit and salted vegetables, was significantly associated with a lower risk of BMI> or =25 (odds ratio of the highest quintile vs lowest, 0.57; 95% confidence interval: 0.37-0.87; P for trend <0.05). In contrast, the 'Japanese traditional' pattern, characterized by high intakes of rice, miso soup and soy products, and the 'Western' pattern, characterized by high intakes of meats, fats and oils, seasonings, processed meats and eggs, were both significantly associated with an increased risk of BMI> or =25 (OR: 1.77; 95% CI: 1.17-2.67; P for trend <0.01 and OR: 1.56; 95% CI: 1.01-2.40; P for trend=0.04, respectively). Three major dietary patterns, Healthy, Japanese traditional and Western, were all independently and significantly related to the risk of obesity even among a relatively lean young Japanese female population.
17896332	Pelvic apophyseal injuries typically involve adolescents, ranging gradually from apophysitis as a chronic traction injury to avulsion fractures after a sudden contraction of a muscle to the immature musculo-skeleton adolescent. While avulsion fractures to the anterior superior iliac spine, the iliac crest and the pubic bone are common, injuries to the anterior inferior iliac spine (AIIS) are only rarely encountered. We report on two 42 and 43-year old male soccer players complaining of groin pain. Both had AIIS avulsion fractures diagnosed by conventional plain x-ray of the pelvis, ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. One patient had an acute adductor longus muscle injury with concomitant asymptomatic AIIS avulsion fracture. Conservative treatment of the muscle injury with initial RICE therapy followed by pain-restricted jogging brought him back to sport within four weeks. The other patient had local tenderness and exercise pain at AIIS with a large exostosis on imaging studies mimicking a pseudotumor. Surgical resection was applied and the rectus femoris muscle was reattached. After three months of intensive physical therapy he could be return to sport. Avulsion fractures of the AIIS may cause persistent pain syndrome and mimic a pseudotumor decades after the initial trauma, which can be treated by surgical resection and reattachment of the rectus femoris muscle with good results. Conservative treatment for minor dislocated AIIS avulsion fractures can be effective in sportsmen. Differential diagnosis often involves bony tumors, so patient's soccer history gives important information regarding past avulsion fractures of the pelvis, which often occur during kicking in the adolescence.
17896583	This study was designed to investigate the influence of natural brown and black rice consumption on plasma lipid parameters, transit time, and thickness of the aortic wall in rats fed different combinations of grains. Fifty male rats were divided into five groups and raised for eight weeks with diets containing white rice (WR), white rice and brown rice (WRBR), white rice and black rice (WRBL), brown rice and black rice (BRBL), or wheat flour (WH). Gut transit time was the shortest in the BRBL group, and was longer in the order of WRBL, WRBR, WR, and WH group. Plasma lipid profiles differed significantly according to the grain combination. The BRBL group had the lowest levels of triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (T-C), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and the highest plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration among all groups. The aortic wall thickness hatro for body weight was lower in rats in order of BRBL, WRBR, WH, WRBL, and WR group. In conclusion, black rice and brown rice have anti-atherogenic effects by decreasing plasma lipide profiles and attenuating the thickness of the aortic wall.
1789704	The population dynamics of Bulinus globosus was followed at seasonal and perennial habitats in three villages in the Extreme North Province, Cameroon, known to have high prevalences of Schistosoma haematobium. The study covered 2 rainy and 1 dry season between June 1987 to November 1988. Of several environmental factors monitored, only rainfall and the resulting changes in water level were strongly correlated with changes in snail density, and even then only when values were at their extremes. In seasonal pools, adult snails emerge from estivation and begin laying eggs shortly after the first rains. A decline in the number of larger snails 3 to 6 weeks later suggests a die off of the founding population. In general, the population density increases modestly during the rainy season and then rapidly declines after torrential rains have ended in September or October. Adults are again dominate just before the habitats dry up. In seasonal streams, population densities fluctuate dramatically in association with rainfall and subsequent flooding, and populations stabilize only after the torrential rains have ceased. Unlike populations in temporary ponds, young snails constituted a large percentage of the population very late in the season. In perennial habitats, seasonal fluctuations in population density were related to manipulation of water levels in a rice irrigation scheme. The lowest densities occurred when the water levels were at their most extreme levels, between November and April. But declines in the population densities often preceded significant changes in the water level, indicating that this factor alone is not responsible for these declines. Of the B. globosus shedding schistosome cercariae, more than 90% were infected with S. haematobium and the remainder with S. bovis. Of 153 infected B. globosus, 87% were found in seasonal habitats. In those sites the first infected snails were found in July but the large numbers were not present until late August and September. Infected snails declined rapidly before the final decline in the general population of B. globosus in November and December. In perennial habitats, infected snails were most common in May and June, just before and early in the rainy season. These findings may prove useful in developing more effective schistosomiasis control measures in sahelian climates.
17897235	To isolate and characterize endophytic diazotrophic bacteria from a semi-aquatic grass (Typha australis) which grows luxuriantly with no addition of any nitrogen source. Ten endophytic diazotrophic bacteria from surface-sterilized roots and culm of T. australis were isolated and screened for plant growth-promoting activities employing standard methods. Based on the rate of nitrogenase activity, indole acetic acid (IAA) production and phosphate (P) solubilization, one root isolate namely GR-3 was found to be the most efficient one. This isolate was identified as Klebsiella oxytoca on the basis of 16S rDNA sequence analysis. Amplification of nifH by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and detection of dinitrogenase reductase by western blot confirmed the diazotrophic nature of GR-3. It was tagged with gusA fused to a constitutive promoter and the resulting transconjugant was inoculated onto endophyte-free rice variety Malviya dhan-36 seedlings to express cross-infection ability which resulted in a significant increase in root/shoot length and chlorophyll a content. Roots and culm of T. australis harbour several endophytic diazotrophic bacteria. One root isolate, identified as K. oxytoca GR-3, seems to be an efficient plant growth-promoting bacterium. Plant growth-promoting properties of GR-3 suggest that this promising isolate merits further investigations for potential application in agriculture.
17897620	Fusarium graminearum produces trichothecenes in aerial hyphae, a process which is markedly suppressed by NaCl without a significant effect on fungal growth. Here we report on the involvement of kinases of the two-component osmotic signal transduction pathway in the regulation of secondary metabolism in F. graminearum. While a deletion null mutant of FgOs1 (encoding the osmosensor histidine kinase) (deltaFgOs1) produced a reduced amount of the red pigment aurofusarin and was unaltered in its ability to produce trichothecenes, deletion null mutants of FgOs4 (encoding mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase; MAPKKK), FgOs5 (MAPKK), and FgOs2 (MAPK) showed markedly enhanced pigmentation and failed to produce trichothecenes in aerial hyphae. Also, the transcript levels of PKS12 and GIP2 (aurofusarin biosynthetic pathway and regulatory genes, respectively) were significantly enhanced in the deltaFgOs4, deltaFgOs5, and deltaFgOs2 mutants and were reduced in the deltaFgOs1 mutant. In addition, expression of Tri4 and Tri6 (trichothecene biosynthetic pathway and regulatory genes) and production of trichothecenes in rice medium were markedly reduced in the former three protein kinase mutants. This is the first report demonstrating the involvement of a MAPK in the regulation of secondary metabolism.
17897777	In southern Taiwan, two areas (L- and Y-) with/without biomass open burning were selected to compare the PCDD/F concentrations and their congener profiles in the ambient air. The results of this study indicate that biomass (rice straw) open burning exhibited a significant impact on the PCDD/F concentration level in the ambient air. During the biomass burning season, the total PCDD/F I-TEQ concentrations in the ambient air of L- and Y-areas were approximately 4 and 17 times higher than those without biomass open burning, respectively. When 10% mass fraction of rice straw was burned, the contribution fraction of biomass burning on annual total PCDD/F I-TEQ emission was 3.28 and 8.11% for KC County and for Taiwan, respectively; however, when the calculation was on a weekly basis, the contribution fraction of biomass burning on weekly total PCDD/F I-TEQ emission was 30.6 and 53.4% for KC County and for Taiwan, respectively. The results of this study imply that during the week of biomass burning, it appears to be the most significant source of total I-TEQ PCDD emission. The results of this research can be applied to the study of other agricultural areas.
17897779	This paper reports the results of the study on the performance of low-cost adsorbent such as raw rice husk (RRH) and phosphate treated rice husk (PRH) in removing the heavy metals such as lead, copper, zinc and manganese. The adsorbent materials adopted were found to be an efficient media for the removal of heavy metals in continuous mode using fixed bed column. The column studies were conducted with 10 mg/l of individual and combined metal solution with a flow rate of 20 ml/min with different bed depths such as 10, 20 and 30 cm. The breakthrough time was also found to increase from 1.3 to 3.5 h for Pb(II), 4.0 to 9.0 h for Cu(II), 12.5 to 25.4h for Zn(II) and 3.0 to 11.3 h for Mn(II) with increase in bed height from 10 to 30 cm for PRH. Different column design parameters like depth of exchange zone, adsorption rate, adsorption capacity, etc. were calculated. It is found that the adsorption capacity and adsorption rate constant were increased and the minimum column bed depth required was reduced when the rice husk is treated with phosphate, when compared with that of RRH.
17898767	The adoption of cereal cultivation was one of the most important cultural processes in history, marking the transition from hunting and gathering by Mesolithic foragers to the food-producing economy of Neolithic farmers. In the Lower Yangtze region of China, a centre of rice domestication, the timing and system of initial rice cultivation remain unclear. Here we report detailed evidence from Kuahuqiao that reveals the precise cultural and environmental context of rice cultivation at this earliest known Neolithic site in eastern China, 7,700 calibrated years before present (cal. yr bp). Pollen, algal, fungal spore and micro-charcoal data from sediments demonstrate that these Neolithic communities selected lowland swamps for their rice cultivation and settlement, using fire to clear alder-dominated wetland scrub and prepare the site for occupation, then to maintain wet grassland vegetation of paddy type. Regular flooding by slightly brackish water was probably controlled by 'bunding' to maintain crop yields. The site's exploitation ceased when it was overwhelmed by marine inundation 7,550 cal. yr bp. Our results establish that rice cultivation began in coastal wetlands of eastern China, an ecosystem vulnerable to coastal change but of high fertility and productivity, attractions maximized for about two centuries by sustained high levels of cultural management of the environment.
17898842	Thiosulfate oxidation and mixotrophic growth with succinate or methanol plus thiosulfate was examined in nutrient-limited mixotrophic condition for Methylobacterium oryzae CBMB20, which was recently characterized and reported as a novel species isolated from rice. Methylobacterium oryzae was able to utilize thiosulfate in the presence of sulfate. Thiosulfate oxidation increased the protein yield by 25% in mixotrophic medium containing 18.5 mmol.L-1 of sodium succinate and 20 mmol.L-1 of sodium thiosulfate on day 5. The respirometric study revealed that thiosulfate was the most preferable reduced inorganic sulfur source, followed by sulfur and sulfite. Thiosulfate was predominantly oxidized to sulfate and intermediate products of thiosulfate oxidation, such as tetrathionate, trithionate, polythionate, and sulfur, were not detected in spent medium. It indicated that bacterium use the non-S4 intermediate sulfur oxidation pathway for thiosulfate oxidation. Thiosulfate oxidation enzymes, such as rhodanese and sulfite oxidase activities appeared to be constitutively expressed, but activity increased during growth on thiosulfate. No thiosulfate oxidase (tetrathionate synthase) activity was detected.
17899033	A liquid chromatography-electrospray-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS-MS) method based on the detection of biomarker peptides from allergenic proteins was devised for confirming and quantifying peanut allergens in foods. Peptides obtained from tryptic digestion of Ara h 2 and Ara h 3/4 proteins were identified and characterized by LC-MS and LC-MS-MS with a quadrupole-time of flight mass analyzer. Four peptides were chosen and investigated as biomarkers taking into account their selectivity, the absence of missed cleavages, the uniform distribution in the Ara h 2 and Ara h 3/4 protein isoforms together with their spectral features under ESI-MS-MS conditions, and good repeatability of LC retention time. Because of the different expression levels, the selection of two different allergenic proteins was proved to be useful in the identification and univocal confirmation of the presence of peanuts in foodstuffs. Using rice crisp and chocolate-based snacks as model food matrix, an LC-MS-MS method with triple quadrupole mass analyzer allowed good detection limits to be obtained for Ara h 2 (5 microg protein g(-1) matrix) and Ara h 3/4 (1 microg protein g(-1) matrix). Linearity of the method was established in the 10-200 microg g(-1) range of peanut proteins in the food matrix investigated. Method selectivity was demonstrated by analyzing tree nuts (almonds, pecan nuts, hazelnuts, walnuts) and food ingredients such as milk, soy beans, chocolate, cornflakes, and rice crisp.
17899563	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an important industrial microorganism. Nowadays, it is being used as a cell factory for the production of pharmaceuticals such as insulin, although this yeast has long been utilized in the bakery to raise dough, and in the production of alcoholic beverages, fermenting the sugars derived from rice, wheat, barley, corn and grape juice. S. cerevisiae has also been extensively used as a model eukaryotic system. In the last decade, genomic techniques have revealed important features of its molecular biology. For example, DNA array technologies are routinely used for determining gene expression levels in cells under different physiological conditions or environmental stimuli. Laboratory strains of S. cerevisiae are different from wine strains. For instance, laboratory yeasts are unable to completely transform all the sugar in the grape must into ethanol under winemaking conditions. In fact, standard culture conditions are usually very different from winemaking conditions, where multiple stresses occur simultaneously and sequentially throughout the fermentation. The response of wine yeasts to these stimuli differs in some aspects from laboratory strains, as suggested by the increasing number of studies in functional genomics being conducted on wine strains. In this paper we review the most recent applications of post-genomic techniques to understand yeast physiology in the wine industry. We also report recent advances in wine yeast strain improvement and propose a reference framework for integration of genomic information, bioinformatic tools and molecular biology techniques for cellular and metabolic engineering. Finally, we discuss the current state and future perspectives for using 'modern' biotechnology in the wine industry.
17899796	Azospirillum bioinoculant is well known for its high nitrogen fixing and plant growth promoting characters. The carrier based bioinoculants generally suffer from shorter shelf life, poor quality, high contamination and low field performance. Therefore, it is necessary to develop alternative new formulation of inoculants where cyst based inoculants can play significant role. The cyst based liquid formulation was developed by inoculating Azospirillum into the cyst inducing minimal salts medium (MSM). One hundred per cent conversion of vegetative cells into cyst cells was noticed in 96 h. The survival of cyst cells in the MSM was observed up to one year and two months and interestingly, the population level of 10(8) was maintained till the final observation. The cyst cells of Azospirillum accumulated poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) granules and exhibited desiccation tolerance up to 20 days and temperature tolerance up to 40 degrees C. Thus the cyst based liquid formulation has twin advantage of longer shelf life and tolerance to harmful environmental conditions. Regeneration of cyst cells into vegetative cells in different media viz., tap water, sterile water, rice gruel and nutrient broth was studied. The changes started within 3 h and complete return of vegetative cells was observed at 24 h. Although all the media tested favoured regeneration, comparatively quicker regeneration was observed in nutrient broth and followed by rice gruel. Thus, cyst based liquid formulation of Azospirillum has all the survival advantages and can be used as a potential bioinoculant.
17900498	The fermentation products of Monascus, especially those produced by solid-state fermentation of rice, have been used as food and health remedies for over 1000 years in China. Monascus rice products (MRPs) are currently being used as health foods in the United States and many Asian countries such as Japan, Taiwan, China, Korea, Thailand, the Philippines, and Indonesia. Many studies have shown that Monascus spp. produce commercially viable metabolites, including food colorants, cholesterol-lowering agents, and antibiotics. The most important bioactive compound isolated from Monascus is monacolin K, which is identical to the potent cholesterol-lowering, antiatherosclerotic drug lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor. Several species of the genus Monascus also produce citrinin, a mycotoxin harmful to the hepatic and renal systems. Monacolin K and citrinin are polyketide fungal metabolites. The biosynthetic pathways leading to the formation of polyketides, including monacolin K and citrinin, have been elucidated in Aspergillus and Monascus. The concern for safety is, therefore, high for the development of MRPs as health foods. Other attractive applications for MRPs are likely, as supported by recent studies that indicate that MRPs contain other substances (flavonoids, polyunsaturated fats, phytosterols, pyrrolinic compounds, and others) with a wide variety of biological activities and pharmacological potentials. Their effects in lowering blood sugar and triacylglycerol while raising HDL-C are more pronounced than those of monacolin K alone. Beyond cholesterol lowering, MRP may also be an ideal candidate for the treatment of metabolic syndrome.
17900970	Phytohormone gibberellins (GA) are a large family of tetracyclic diterpenoids and play the important roles in modulation of plant growth and development throughout the plant life cycle. GA depresses its signaling by the GA-promoted destabilization of the DELLA protein growth repressors via 26S proteasome pathway. Recent evidences indicate that the DELLA proteins interact with multiple environmental and other hormonal response pathways and confer plant growth restraint. Furthermore, the discovery of rice GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) and three Arabidopsis AtGID1 homologs as soluble GA receptors opens new prospects for understanding of de-DELLA repressing system in GA signaling.
17904519	We have developed a restriction landmark genome scanning (RLGS) system in silico, involving two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis of DNA by computer simulation that is based on the availability of whole-genome sequences for specific organisms. We applied the technique to the analysis of the Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae (Xoo) MAFF 311018, which causes bacterial blight in rice. The coverage that was found to be achievable using RLGS in silico, as a percentage of the genomic regions that could be detected, ranged from 44.5% to 72.7% per image. However, this reached a value of 96.7% using four images that were obtained with different combinations of landmark restriction enzymes. Interestingly, the signal intensity of some of the specific spots obtained was significantly lower than that of other surrounding spots when MboI, which cleaves unmethylated 5'-GATC-3' sites, was used. DNA gel blot analysis with both DNA adenine methylase (Dam)-sensitive and -insensitive isoschizomers (MboI and Sau3AI) revealed that Dam-mediated DNA adenine methylation had indeed occurred at these particular sites. These results suggest that a significant portion of the 5'-GATC-3' sites within the Xoo genome is stably methylated by Dam.
17905393	Seed germination is a complex physiological process in plants that can be affected severely by heavy metals. The interference of germination by cadmium stress has not been well documented at the proteomic level. In the present study, in order to investigate the protein profile alternations during the germination stage following exposure to cadmium, a proteomic approach has been adopted in combination with morphological and physiological parameters. Seeds were exposed with a wide range of cadmium between 0.2 and 1.0 mM. Increases of cadmium concentration in the medium resulted in increased cadmium accumulation in seeds and TBARS content, whereas germination rate, shoot elongation, biomass, and water content were decreased significantly. Temporal changes of the total proteins were investigated by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE). Twenty-one proteins were identified using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, which were upregulated at least 1.5-fold in response to cadmium stress. The identified proteins are involved in several processes, including defense and detoxification, antioxidant, protein biosynthesis, and germination processes. The identification of these proteins in the cadmium stress response provides new insight that can lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of heavy metal responses of seeds at the germination stage.
17905473	The interaction between rice and the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea is the focus of extensive studies on rice disease resistance and fungal infection mechanisms. Here, we review the characteristics of susceptible rice blast infections in terms of physiology, cytology and both host and pathogen transcriptional responses. The success of the infection and the type of disease symptoms strongly depend on environmental and developmental cues. After its penetration into a host cell, the fungus differentiates invasive hyphae that fill up the plant cell lumen and are in direct contact with the membrane of the infected cell. The infected plant cell is alive, displaying considerable vesicle accumulation near the fungus, which is consistent with the establishment of a biotrophic phase at this stage of the infection. Colonization of host tissues by the fungus occurs through the perforation of cell walls from adjacent cells, likely using plasmodesmata as breaking points, or through hyphal growth in the apoplasm. After a few days of biotrophic growth within rice tissues, the fungus switches to a necrotrophic-like phase associated with the onset of sporulation, leading to visible lesions. Genome-wide transcriptomic studies have shown that classical plant defence responses are triggered during a susceptible infection, although the kinetics and amplitude of these responses are slower and lower than in resistant interactions. Infected rice cells are submitted to an intense transcriptional reprogramming, where responses to hormones such as auxins, abscissic acid and jasmonates are likely involved. Consistent with the extensive plant-fungal exchanges during the biotrophic phase, many rice genes expressed during infection encode plasma membrane proteins. At the onset of lesion formation (5 days after the start of infection), M. grisea is actively reprogramming its transcription towards active DNA, RNA and protein syntheses to sustain its rapid growth in infected tissues. A striking characteristic of M. grisea genes expressed at this stage of the infection is the over-representation of genes encoding secreted proteins, mainly of unknown function. However, some of these secreted proteins are enzymes involved in cell wall, protein and lipid degradation, suggesting that the fungus is starting to degrade host polymers and cell walls or is remodelling its own cell wall. The next challenge will be to decipher the role of these induced plant and fungal genes in the susceptible interaction.
17905495	Genotypic and environmental variation in Cr, Cd and Pb concentrations of rice grains and the interaction between these metals were investigated by using 138 rice genotypes grown in three contaminated soils. There were significant genotypic differences in the three heavy metal concentrations of rice grains, with the absolute difference among 138 genotypes in grain Cr, Cd and Pb concentrations being 24.5-, 9.1- and 23.8-folds, respectively, under the slightly contaminated soil (containing 4.61mgkg(-1) Cr, 1.09mgkg(-1) Cd and Pb 28.28mgkg(-1), respectively). A highly significant interaction occurred between genotype and environment (soil type) in the heavy metal concentrations of rice grains. Cr concentration in rice grains was not correlated with Cd and Pb concentration. However, there was a significant correlation between Cd and Pb in slightly and highly contaminated soils. The results suggest the possibility to develop the rice cultivars with low Cd and Pb concentrations in grain.
17905580	An attempt was made to study the efficient use of rice straw and indigenous source of phosphorus and potassium in crop production through composting technology. Various enriched composts were prepared using rice straw, rock phosphate (RP), waste mica and bioinoculant (Aspergillus awamori) and kinetics of release of phosphorus and potassium from enriched composts and their effect on yield and nutrient uptake by wheat (Triticum aestivum) were carried out. Results showed sharp increases in release in water-soluble P and K from all the composts at 8th to 12th day of leaching, thereafter, it decreased gradually. Maximum release of water-soluble P and K were obtained in ordinary compost than enriched composts during the initial stages of leaching, but their differences narrowed down at latter stages. Data in pot experiments revealed that enriched composts performed poorly than diammonium phosphate during initial stages of crop growth, but they out yielded at the latter stages, particularly at maturity stage, as evident from their higher yield, uptake, nutrient recoveries and fertility status of P and K in soils. Moreover, enriched composts prepared with RP and waste mica along with A. awamori resulted in significantly higher biomass yield, uptake and recoveries of P and K as well as available P and K in soils than composts prepared without inoculant. Results indicated that enriched compost could be an alternate technology for the efficient management of rice straw, low-grade RP and waste mica in crop production, which could help to reduce the reliance on costly chemical fertilizers.
17905707	In higher plant, flowering transition represents a crucial transition from the vegetative stage to the reproductive stage in life cycle. This process is controlled by both endogenous and environmental factors. In Arabidopsis thaliana, four pathways, photoperiod pathway, vernalization pathway, autonomous pathway, and GA pathway were involved in flowering control. These flowering transition pathways are shown to be highly conserved in Arabidopsis and other higher plants including rice (Oryza sativa L.). This review summarizes recent progresses on flowering time control.
17905716	The crosses were made between four japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) landraces Bodao, Tieganqing, Jiangnanwan and Queernuo from Taihu Lake region, which were highly resistant to the blast (Magnaporthe grisa), and a susceptible japonica variety Suyunuo to produce F1 and F2 generations. The P1 , P2, F1 and F2 generation from various combinations were inoculated separately with Japanese blast strain Hoku 1 and Chinese races ZE3 and ZG1 to study genetic patterns of resis-tance in the four landraces to the blast. Resistance in Bodao, Tieganqing or Queernuo to blast Hoku 1 might be controlled by a dominant gene, and in Jiangnanwan by two inhibiting effect genes. Resistance in Tieganqing or Queernuo to blast ZE3 might be controlled by one dominant gene, and in Bodao and Jiangnanwan by two independently dominant genes and two inhibiting effect genes, respectively. Resistance in Tieganqing to blast ZG1 might be controlled by a dominant gene, but in Bodao and Jiangnanwan by two inhibiting effect genes. The crosses were further made between landrace Bodao and 12 Japanese differential varieties possessing the known resistance genes to the blast to produce F1 and F2 generations. The plants of various generations were inoculated with strain Hoku 1 to confirm the resistance gene in Bodao was allelic with known resistance genes. The results show that the resistance gene in Bodao to strain Hoku 1 was non allelic with known resistance genes, and tentatively designated Pi-bd1(t).
17905867	Rice (Oryza sativa) is a highly silicon (Si)-accumulating species that shows genotypic differences in Si accumulation. We investigated the physiological and molecular mechanisms involved in the genotypic difference in Si uptake between the japonica var. Nipponbare and the indica var. Kasalath. Both the Si concentration in the shoot and the Si uptake per root dry weight were higher in Nipponbare than in Kasalath grown in either soil or nutrient solution. The Si uptake by a single root was also higher in Nipponbare than in Kasalath. A kinetics study showed that Nipponbare and Kasalath had a similar K(m) value, whereas the V(max) was higher in Nipponbare. The expression of two Si transporter genes (Low silicon rice 1 [Lsi1] and Lsi2) investigated using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed higher expression of both genes in Nipponbare than in Kasalath. Immunostaining with Lsi1 and Lsi2 antibodies revealed a similar pattern of subcellular localization of these two Si transporters in both varieties; Lsi1 and Lsi2 were localized at the distal and proximal sides, respectively, of both exodermis and endodermis of the roots. These results revealed that the genotypic difference in the Si accumulation results from the difference in abundance of Si transporters in rice roots.
17905898	MicroRNAs and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are two classes of small regulatory RNAs derived from different types of precursors and processed by distinct Dicer or Dicer-like (DCL) proteins. During evolution, four Arabidopsis thaliana DCLs and six rice (Oryza sativa) DCLs (Os DCLs) appear to have acquired specialized functions. The Arabidopsis DCLs are well characterized, but those in rice remain largely unstudied. Here, we show that both knockdown and loss of function of rice DCL4, the homolog of Arabidopsis DCL4, lead to vegetative growth abnormalities and severe developmental defects in spikelet identity. These phenotypic alterations appear to be distinct from those observed in Arabidopsis dcl4 mutants, which exhibit accelerated vegetative phase change. The difference in phenotype between rice and Arabidopsis dcl4 mutants suggests that siRNA processing by DCL4 has a broader role in rice development than in Arabidopsis. Biochemical and genetic analyses indicate that Os DCL4 is the major Dicer responsible for the 21-nucleotide siRNAs associated with inverted repeat transgenes and for trans-acting siRNA (ta-siRNA) from the endogenous TRANS-ACTING siRNA3 (TAS3) gene. We show that the biogenesis mechanism of TAS3 ta-siRNA is conserved but that putative direct targets of Os DCL4 appear to be differentially regulated between monocots and dicots. Our results reveal a critical role of Os DCL4-mediated ta-siRNA biogenesis in rice development.
17906965	Hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with dysfunction and an independent risk factor of cardiovascular diseases. Cholestin (Monascus purpureus-fermented rice), contains a naturally-occurring statin, which has lipid-modulating and anti-inflammatory effects. We investigated the effects of Cholestin extract on the expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) by homocysteine (HCY)-treated human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs). Supplement of HAECs with Cholestin extract significantly suppressed cellular binding between the human monocytic cells U937 and HCY-stimulated HAECs. Quantitative PCR and immunoblot analysis showed that Cholestin extract significantly attenuated HCY-induced expression of VCAM-1 mRNA and protein, respectively. Gel shift assays showed that Cholestin treatment reduced HCY-activated transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Furthermore, Cholestin also attenuated reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in vitro and in HCY-treated HAECs. Supplement with statins including simvastatin and parastatin gave similar results as compared with Cholestin. In conclusion, Cholestin reduces HCY-stimulated endothelial adhesiveness as well as downregulating intracellular ROS formation, NF-kappaB activation, and VCAM-1 expression in HAECs, supporting the notion that the natural compound Cholestin may have potential implications in clinical atherosclerosis disease.
17906996	A survey of the levels of cadmium, lead and arsenic in different types of rice available on the Swedish retail market was carried out in 2001--03. The types of rice included long and short grain, brown, white, and parboiled white rice. The mean levels found were as follows: total As: 0.20 mg kg(-1), inorganic As: 0.11 mg kg(-1); Cd: 0.024 mg kg(-1); and Pb: 0.004 mg kg(-1). ICP-MS was used for the determination of As (total and inorganic) after acid digestion. Lead and cadmium were determined using graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS) after dry ashing. In countries where rice is a staple food, it may represent a significant contribution in relation to the provisional tolerable weekly intake for Cd and inorganic As.
17907810	Domesticated Asian rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the oldest domesticated crop species in the world, having fed more people than any other plant in human history. We report the patterns of DNA sequence variation in rice and its wild ancestor, O. rufipogon, across 111 randomly chosen gene fragments, and use these to infer the evolutionary dynamics that led to the origins of rice. There is a genome-wide excess of high-frequency derived single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in O. sativa varieties, a pattern that has not been reported for other crop species. We developed several alternative models to explain contemporary patterns of polymorphisms in rice, including a (i) selectively neutral population bottleneck model, (ii) bottleneck plus migration model, (iii) multiple selective sweeps model, and (iv) bottleneck plus selective sweeps model. We find that a simple bottleneck model, which has been the dominant demographic model for domesticated species, cannot explain the derived nucleotide polymorphism site frequency spectrum in rice. Instead, a bottleneck model that incorporates selective sweeps, or a more complex demographic model that includes subdivision and gene flow, are more plausible explanations for patterns of variation in domesticated rice varieties. If selective sweeps are indeed the explanation for the observed nucleotide data of domesticated rice, it suggests that strong selection can leave its imprint on genome-wide polymorphism patterns, contrary to expectations that selection results only in a local signature of variation.
17908158	A critical step during rice (Oryza sativa) cultivation is dense planting: a wider tiller angle will increase leaf shade and decrease photosynthesis efficiency, whereas a narrower tiller angle makes for more efficient plant architecture. The molecular basis of tiller angle remains unknown. This research demonstrates that tiller angle is controlled by a major quantitative trait locus, TAC1 (Tiller Angle Control 1). TAC1 was mapped to a 35-kb region on chromosome 9 using a large F(2) population from crosses between an indica rice, IR24, which displays a relatively spread-out plant architecture, and an introgressed line, IL55, derived from japonica rice Asominori, which displays a compact plant architecture with extremely erect tillers. Genetic complementation further identified the TAC1 gene, which harbors three introns in its coding region and a fourth 1.5-kb intron in the 3'-untranslated region. A mutation in the 3'-splicing site of this 1.5-kb intron from 'AGGA' to 'GGGA' decreases the level of tac1, resulting in a compact plant architecture with a tiller angle close to zero. Further sequence verification of the mutation in the 3'-splicing site of the 1.5-kb intron revealed that the tac1 mutation 'GGGA' was present in 88 compact japonica rice accessions and TAC1 with 'AGGA' was present in 21 wild rice accessions and 43 indica rice accessions, all with the spread-out form, indicating that tac1 had been extensively utilized in densely planted rice grown in high-latitude temperate areas and at high altitudes where japonica rice varieties are widely cultivated.
17908303	Affymetrix GeneChip arrays are widely used for transcriptomic studies in a diverse range of species. Each gene is represented on a GeneChip array by a probe-set, consisting of up to 16 probe-pairs. Signal intensities across probe-pairs within a probe-set vary in part due to different physical hybridisation characteristics of individual probes with their target labelled transcripts. We have previously developed a technique to study the transcriptomes of heterologous species based on hybridising genomic DNA (gDNA) to a GeneChip array designed for a different species, and subsequently using only those probes with good homology. Here we have investigated the effects of hybridising homologous species gDNA to study the transcriptomes of species for which the arrays have been designed. Genomic DNA from Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) were hybridised to the Affymetrix Arabidopsis ATH1 and Rice Genome GeneChip arrays respectively. Probe selection based on gDNA hybridisation intensity increased the number of genes identified as significantly differentially expressed in two published studies of Arabidopsis development, and optimised the analysis of technical replicates obtained from pooled samples of RNA from rice. This mixed physical and bioinformatics approach can be used to optimise estimates of gene expression when using GeneChip arrays.
17908925	Plants do not bloom randomly--but how do they know when and where to make flowers? Here, we review molecular mechanisms that integrate spatial and temporal information in day-length-dependent flowering. Primarily through genetic analyses in two species, Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, we today understand the essentials of two central issues in plant biology: how the appropriate photoperiod generates an inductive stimulus based on an external coincidence mechanism, and the nature of the mobile flowering signal, florigen, which relays photoperiod-dependent information from the leaf to the growing tip of the plant, the shoot apex.
17909744	Rice blast disease caused by Magnaporthe grisea is a continuous threat to stable rice production worldwide. In a modernized agricultural system, the development of varieties with broad-spectrum and durable resistance to blast disease is essential for increased rice production and sustainability. In this study, a new gene is identified in the introgression line IR65482-4-136-2-2 that has inherited the resistance gene from an EE genome wild Oryza species, O. australiensis (Acc. 100882). Genetic and molecular analysis localized a major resistance gene, Pi40(t), on the short arm of chromosome 6, where four blast resistance genes (Piz, Piz-5, Piz-t, and Pi9) were also identified, flanked by the markers S2539 and RM3330. Through e-Landing, 14 BAC/PAC clones within the 1.81-Mb equivalent virtual contig were identified on Rice Pseudomolecule3. Highly stringent primer sets designed for 6 NBS-LRR motifs located within PAC clone P0649C11 facilitated high-resolution mapping of the new resistance gene, Pi40(t). Following association analysis and detailed haplotyping approaches, a DNA marker, 9871.T7E2b, was identified to be linked to the Pi40(t) gene at the 70 Kb chromosomal region, and differentiated the Pi40(t) gene from the LTH monogenic differential lines possessing genes Piz, Piz-5, Piz-t, and Pi-9. Pi40(t) was validated using the most virulent isolates of Korea as well as the Philippines, suggesting a broad spectrum for the resistance gene. Marker-assisted selection (MAS) and pathotyping of BC progenies having two japonica cultivar genetic backgrounds further supported the potential of the resistance gene in rice breeding. Our study based on new gene identification strategies provides insight into novel genetic resources for blast resistance as well as future studies on cloning and functional analysis of a blast resistance gene useful for rice improvement.
17910117	Detecting plant health conditions plays a key role in farm pest management and crop protection. In this study, measurement of hyperspectral leaf reflectance in rice crop (Oryzasativa L.) was conducted on groups of healthy and infected leaves by the fungus Bipolaris oryzae (Helminthosporium oryzae Breda. de Hann) through the wavelength range from 350 to 2,500 nm. The percentage of leaf surface lesions was estimated and defined as the disease severity. Statistical methods like multiple stepwise regression, principal component analysis and partial least-square regression were utilized to calculate and estimate the disease severity of rice brown spot at the leaf level. Our results revealed that multiple stepwise linear regressions could efficiently estimate disease severity with three wavebands in seven steps. The root mean square errors (RMSEs) for training (n=210) and testing (n=53) dataset were 6.5% and 5.8%, respectively. Principal component analysis showed that the first principal component could explain approximately 80% of the variance of the original hyperspectral reflectance. The regression model with the first two principal components predicted a disease severity with RMSEs of 16.3% and 13.9% for the training and testing dataset, respectively. Partial least-square regression with seven extracted factors could most effectively predict disease severity compared with other statistical methods with RMSEs of 4.1% and 2.0% for the training and testing dataset, respectively. Our research demonstrates that it is feasible to estimate the disease severity of rice brown spot using hyperspectral reflectance data at the leaf level.
17910118	Pleurotus sajor-caju (Fr.) Singer was cultivated on selected agro wastes viz. cotton stalks, groundnut haulms, soybean straw, pigeon pea stalks and leaves and wheat straw, alone or in combinations. Cotton stalks, pigeon pea stalks and wheat straw alone or in combination were found to be more suitable than groundnut haulms and soybean straw for the cultivation. Organic supplements such as groundnut oilseed cake, gram powder and rice bran not only affected growth parameters but also increased yields. Thus bioconversion of lignocellulosic biomass by P. sajor-caju offers a promising way to convert low quality biomass into an improved human food.
17911290	Two novel red-pigmented Vibrio strains, MSSRF3(T) and MSSRF10, with antibacterial activity against phytopathogens were isolated from the rhizosphere region of mangrove-associated wild rice (Porteresia coarctata Tateoka), in Pichavaram, India. The cells were Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic and rod-shaped and were motile by means of single polar flagella. The two strains were catalase-positive and oxidase-negative, and were able to grow in 0.1-10 % NaCl (with optimum growth in 2 % NaCl) and at temperatures of 20-42 degrees C (optimum growth at 25-30 degrees C). Both strains produced acid and gas from D-glucose under anaerobic conditions and utilized a wide range of compounds as sole carbon and energy sources. The DNA G+C contents determined were 51.3 mol% for strain MSSRF3(T) and 51.0 mol% for strain MSSRF10. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA, rpoA, recA and pyrH gene sequences showed that strains MSSRF3(T) and MSSRF10 belong to the genus Vibrio and are very closely related to Vibrio ruber JCM 11486(T), with which they share 98.3-98.5 % (16S rRNA), 98.3-99.7 % (rpoA), 90.2-99.8 % (recA) and 91.3-99.4 % (pyrH) gene sequence similarities, respectively. Levels of DNA-DNA relatedness were 44 % between strains MSSRF3(T) and MSSRF10, 80 % between strain MSSRF10 and V. ruber JCM 11486(T) and 45 % between strain MSSRF3(T) and V. ruber JCM 11486(T). Strain MSSRF3(T) was phenotypically similar to V. ruber JCM 11486(T). However, the inability to reduce nitrate to nitrite, the ability to grow in 0.1 % NaCl and the presence of caseinase were characteristics that allowed differentiation between V. ruber JCM 11486(T) and strain MSSRF3(T). In addition, strain MSSRF3(T) could be differentiated from strain MSSRF10 and its closest relative V. ruber JCM 11486(T) with respect to its genomic fingerprinting analysis (random amplified polymorphic DNA, GTG5, BOX, PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism and ribotyping). Therefore, based on phenotypic, genotypic, phylogenetic and DNA-DNA hybridization analyses, strain MSSRF3(T) (=LMG 23790(T)=DSM 18581(T)) should be classified as representing the type strain of a novel species of the genus Vibrio, for which the name Vibrio rhizosphaerae sp. nov. is proposed.
17911301	Thermophilic (strain GOMI-1(T)) and mesophilic (strain KOME-1(T)) strains were isolated from two different cultures of propionate-degrading consortia obtained from thermophilic digester sludge and rice paddy soil, respectively. The two strains were non-spore-forming, non-motile and Gram-negative. Both strains were obligately anaerobic micro-organisms, showing multicellular filamentous morphotypes more than 100 mum in length. The cell width for strain GOMI-1(T) was 0.2-0.4 mum and that of strain KOME-1(T) was 0.4-0.6 mum. Strain GOMI-1(T) could grow at 45-65 degrees C with a pH range of 6.0-7.5 (optimum growth at 55 degrees C, pH 7.0). The temperature range for growth of strain KOME-1(T) was 30-40 degrees C and the pH range was pH 5.0-8.5 (optimum growth around 37 degrees C, pH 7.0). Yeast extract was required for growth of both strains. Strain GOMI-1(T) was able to grow with a number of carbohydrates in the presence of yeast extract. In yeast extract-containing medium, strain KOME-1(T) could utilize proteins and a limited range of sugars for growth. The G+C contents of the DNA of strains GOMI-1(T) and KOME-1(T) were respectively 54.7 and 57.6 mol%. Major fatty acids of strain GOMI-1(T) were C(16 : 0), C(14 : 0) and iso-C(15 : 0), whereas those of strain KOME-1(T) were iso-C(15 : 0), anteiso-C(15 : 0) and C(14 : 0). Based on comparative analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences of strains GOMI-1(T) and KOME-1(T), the strains were placed in different phylogenetic positions in the class Anaerolineae of the bacterial phylum Chloroflexi. Their phenotypic and genetic traits strongly supported the conclusion that the strains should be described as two independent taxa in the class Anaerolineae. Hence, we propose the names Bellilinea caldifistulae gen. nov., sp. nov., and Longilinea arvoryzae gen. nov., sp. nov., for strains GOMI-1(T) and KOME-1(T). The type strains of Bellilinea caldifistulae and Longilinea arvoryzae are respectively GOMI-1(T) (=JCM 13669(T) =DSM 17877(T)) and KOME-1(T) (=JCM 13670(T) =KTCC 5380(T)).
1791149	None of the consultants disagree with the initial plan to treat this T1N0 squamous cell carcinoma of the true vocal cord with radiotherapy. The consensus is that 10% to 20% of these lesions can fail conventional treatment. Dr. Rice cites incorrect radiotherapy ports, understaging, and extension into muscle or cartilage as the likely reasons for failure. He also believes that a patient who continues to smoke is at risk for persistent or recurrent disease. Drs. Wetmore and Singer add that some tumors are radioresistant for indefinable reasons. Although all the consultants agree that the differentiation between severe atypia and carcinoma in situ can be very difficult, Dr. Singer warns that the surgeon should not play a role in the histologic decision-making. He does not make a distinction between the two and suggests treating a lesion on the basis of its clinical behavior. Dr. Rice draws the line at treating T3 glottic carcinomas with radiotherapy. He states that the greater the tumor bulk the less well the lesion will do with radiotherapy. All the experts caution that involvement of cartilage at the anterior commissure and arytenoid is also a reason for failure. Dr. Wetmore adds that subglottic extension and verrucous carcinoma also contribute to radiotherapy failure. The real controversy lay with how to proceed in this case. Dr. Rice suggests excision of the lesion with the laser or microsurgical stripping. If the margins were positive he would proceed with a vertical hemilaryngectomy. Dr. Wetmore would excise the lesion with a CO2 laser and would follow the patient closely thereafter. He would only plan a hemilaryngectomy if the lesion recurred again.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
17913077	Freezing injury and disease are both restrictive factors in crop production. In order to improve the tolerance ability to these stresses, a better way is to carry out genetic engineering by transferring dualfunctional genes. A predicted rice antifreeze glycopeptide gene was purposefully selected from rice blast-induced cDNA library. Northern blot demonstrated that the gene is expressed not only in blast-infected rice leaves, but also in low temperature-treated rice. In addition, the expressed protein in Escherichia coli exhibits strong antifreeze activities. The gene was overexpressed in rice plants transformed via Agrobacterium tumefacient EHA105. Overall 112 T0 transformants were obtained in this research. Cold tolerance and disease resistance of T1 transformants were, respectively, investigated. The results showed that plants containing overexpressed transgene can withstand -1 degrees C for 24 h without severe chilling injury after thawed, and that disease symptoms of the parallel transformants are highly reduced in response to blast infection, when compared with controls. The relationship of the gene and several pathogenesis-related protein genes to be chosen was analyzed and discussed. All these results confirmed the dual role of the cloned gene, and implied that genetic engineering using this kind of gene is a promising method to reduce biotic and abiotic stresses.
17913152	Salicylic acid (SA) was an essential component of the plant resistance to pathogens and also plays an important role in mediating plant response to some abiotic stress. The possible effects of SA on the growth and H2O2-metabolizing enzymes in rice seedlings under lead stress were studied. When rice seedlings grown in nutrient solution containing Pb2+ (0, 0.05, 0.15, 0.25 mmol/L) for 18 d, the plant biomass as well as the chlorophyll content of leaves decreased with increasing Pb concentration. The pre-treatment with SA (treated with 0.1 mmol/L SA for 48 h before Pb stress) partially protected seedlings from Pb toxicity. The chlorophyll contents were significant higher in leaves of Pb-exposed with SA pre-treatment seedlings than in Pb-exposed plants at the same Pb intensity. SA pre-treated alone could significantly increase the length of shoot and root of seedlings but the vigour difference was not marked under long-term exposure to Pb toxicity. SA pre-treated influence the H202 level in leaves of seedlings by up-regulating the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), repressing the activity of catalase (CAT) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) depending on the concentrations of Pb2+ in the growth medium. The results supported the conclusion that SA played a positive role in rice seedlings against Pb toxicity.
17913154	The microbial communities under irrigated rice cropping with different fertilizer treatments, including control (CK), PK, NK, NP, NPK fertilization, were investigated using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) profile method. The results of this study revealed that the fertilizer practice had an impact on the community structure of specific microbial groups. The principal components analysis (PCA) showed that proportion of the actinomycete PLFAs (10Me 18:0 and 10Me 16:0) were the lowest in the PK treatment and the highest in the NPK treatment, which means that soil nitrogen status affected the diversity of actinomycetes, whereas nitrogen cycling was related to the actinomycets. Under CK treatment, the ratio of Gram-positive to Gram-negative bacteria was lower compared with that in fertilizer addition treatments, indicating that fertilizer application stimulated Gram-positive bacterial population in paddy soil. The fatty acid 18:2omega6,9, which is considered to be predominantly of fungal origin, was at low level in all the treatments. The ratio of cyl9:0 to 18: 1omega7, which has been proposed as an indicator of stress conditions, decreased in PK treatment. Changes of soil microbial community under different fertilizer treatments of paddy soil were detected in this study; however, the causes that lead to changes in the microbial community still needs further study.
17913156	To confirm the optimum cultivation conditions for analyzing lactic acid bacterial communities and to provide the cultivation foundation for lactic acid bacterial communities that were used to convert straw into fodder, fermented rice straw was inoculated into 13 different broths. After 48 h of cultivation, pH values, volatile products, and microbial diversity were analyzed. Except for LAB broth, the pH values of the other broths could decrease to approximately 4.5. GC/MS analysis showed that lactic acid in Tomato MRS broth, MRS broth, LAB broth, and Tomato juice broth was higher than that in the other broths. DNA concentration analysis showed that the counts of microbes in Tomato MRS broth were 2.5 times of those in other broths and that tomato juice favored the reproduction of the microbes. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis showed that the number of lactic acid bacterial species in HYA broth, Tomato juice broth, and Tomato MRS broth were higher than those in the other broths.
17913273	Mycotoxin contamination in rice is usually lower as in wheat or corn. However, there are some reports that rice has been contaminated with mycotoxins such as aflatoxin B1, B2, G1, G2 (AFS), citrinin, deoxynivalenol (DON), fumonisin B1, B2, B3 (FMS), fusarenon-X (Fus.-X), nivalenol (NIV), ochratoxin A (OTA), sterigmatocystin (STE), and zearalenone. Rice in Japan is preserved in warehouses where moisture content and temperature are regulated. Therefore, mycotoxin contamination from post harvest fungal growth occurs very seldom. Trichothecenes, aflatoxins, and STE in rice were recently analyzed in our laboratory. In 1998, a typhoon struck before rice harvesting in Japan, and the unpolished rice was found to be stained brown. Samples were collected and analyzed for the presence of trichothecenes. Mycotoxins DON, Fus.-X, and NIV were detected and confirmed with GC-MS. The quantity of trichothecenes was determined using GC-ECD. STE is a carcinogenic mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus versicolor and some other fungi. STE contamination of rice was studied in our laboratory since 1973. GC-MS, LC-MS, LC-MS/MS, and LC-UV methods for STE determination were examined, giving good results for the LC-UV method using a photo diode array detector. Different techniques for the extraction of STE from rice were also studied. Finally, brown rice was ground, and the ground rice was extracted with acetonitrile-water. An Autoprep MF-A 1000 column was used to clean up AFS and STE. The cleaned-up extract was analyzed with HPLC-UV. Forty-eight brown rice samples were analyzed, and none of them were contaminated with STE. These rice samples were also analyzed for AFS and FMS, and none of the samples were contaminated. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in Japan is making the appropriate Institutes develop analytical methods for mycotoxins and survey mycotoxin contamination on rice as well as wheat, corn, and some other cereals.
17913295	Flowering time is regulated by genetic programs and environment signals in plants. Genetic analysis of flowering time mutants is instrumental in dissecting the regulatory pathways of flower induction. Genotype W378 is a rice (Oryza sativa) late-flowering mutant selected from our collections of T-DNA insertion line. The T-DNA flanking gene in mutant W378 codes OsLFL1 (O. sativa LEC2 and FUSCA3 Like 1), a putative B3 DNA-binding domain-containing transcription factor. In wild-type rice OsLFL1 is expressed exclusively in spikes and young embryos, while in mutant W378 it is ectopically expressed. Introduction of OsLFL1-RNAi into mutant W378 successfully down-regulated OsLFL1 expression and restored flowering to almost normal time, indicating that overexpression of OsLFL1 confers late flowering for mutant W378. The flowering-promoting gene Ehd1 and its downstream genes are all down-regulated in W378. Thus, overexpression of OsLFL1 might delay the flowering of W378 by repressing the expression of Ehd1.
17914176	R2R3-MYB transcription factors play many important roles in higher plants including the regulation of secondary metabolism, the control of cell shape, and in the response to various stress conditions. In spite of their large number and significance, very few of these genes have been functionally characterized in monocots. Here, we describe the characterization of ZmMYB-IF35 from maize. Using GAL4 fusion constructs, we show that ZmMYB-IF35 possesses the ability to bind DNA in a sequence specific manner and activate transcription in yeast. We also show that ZmMYB-IF35 is capable of binding to the a1 promoter in planta, but it is not sufficient for activation of a1 transcription. Interestingly, a chimeric protein consisting of the MYB domain from ZmMYB-IF35 and the non-MYB C-terminal region of P1, a closely related R2R3-MYB protein, activated transcription from the a1 promoter in planta, suggesting that regions outside the conserved R2R3-MYB domain contribute to regulatory specificity. In situ hybridization experiments demonstrate that ZmMYB-IF35 expresses primarily in epidermal and vascular cells, while its rice ortholog, OsMYB-IF, displays a broad expression pattern in aerial parts of the plant. Together, our results provide novel insights on the participation of ZmMYB-IF35 and related genes in the regulation of secondary metabolic pathways in the grasses.
17914189	N-methylation of phosphoethanolamine, the committing step in choline (Cho) biosynthesis in plants, is catalyzed by S-adenosyl-L-methionine: phosphoethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEAMT, EC 2.1.1.103). Herein we report the cloning and characterization of the novel maize phosphoethanolamine N-methyltransferase gene (ZmPEAMT1) using a combination of bioinformatics and a PCR-based allele mining strategy. The cDNA sequence of ZmPEAMT1 gene is 1,806 bp in length and translates a 495 amino acids peptide. The upstream promoter sequence of ZmPEAMT1 were obtained by TAIL-PCR, and contained four kinds of putative cis-acting regulatory elements, including stress-responsive elements, phytohormone-responsive elements, pollen developmental special activation elements, and light-induced signal transduction elements, as well as several other structural features in common with the promoter of rice and Arabidopsis homologies. RT-PCR analysis showed that expression of ZmPEAMT1 was induced by salt stress and suppressed by high temperature. Over-expression of ZmPEAMT1 enhanced the salt tolerance, root length, and silique number in transgenic Arabidopsis. These data indicated that ZmPEAMT1 maybe involved in maize root development and stress resistance, and maybe having a potential application in maize genetic engineering.
17915256	Process-based crop simulation models require employment of new knowledge for continuous improvement. To simulate growth and development of different genotypes of a given crop, most models use empirical relationships or parameters defined as genetic coefficients to represent the various cultivar characteristics. Such a loose introduction of different cultivar characteristics can result in bias within a simulation, which could potentially integrate to a high simulation error at the end of the growing season when final yield at maturity is predicted. Recent advances in genetics and biomolecular analysis provide important opportunities for incorporating genetic information into process-based models to improve the accuracy of the simulation of growth and development and ultimately the final yield. This improvement is especially important for complex applications of models. For instance, the effect of the climate change on the crop growth processes in the context of natural climatic and soil variability and a large range of crop management options (e.g., N management) make it difficult to predict the potential impact of the climate change on the crop production. Quantification of the interaction of the environmental variables with the management factors requires fine tuning of the crop models to consider differences among different genotypes. In this paper we present this concept by reviewing the available knowledge of major genes and quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for important traits of rice for improvement of rice growth modelling and further requirements. It is our aim to review the assumption of the adequacy of the available knowledge of rice genes and QTL information to be introduced into the models. Although the rice genome sequence has been completed, the development of gene-based rice models still requires additional information than is currently unavailable. We conclude that a multidiscipline research project would be able to introduce this concept for practical applications.
17915320	The present study deals with the adsorption of phenol on carbon-rich black gram husk (BGH), green gram husk (GGH), and rice husk (RH). All these agro-wastes were collected from the local mills and physico-chemical treatments were carried out to improve their adsorption capacity. Batch studies were performed to evaluate the effect of various experimental parameters such as initial pH, contact time, adsorbent dosage, and initial phenol concentration (C(0)) of 100mg/l. Optimum conditions for phenol removal were found to be at pH 5.1 (in the range 2-12), an adsorbent dosage of 0.5 g/l of solution and for an equilibrium time of 6h. Equilibrium isotherms for the adsorption of phenol on BGH, GGH, and RH were analyzed by Freundlich, Langmuir, Temkin, Redlich-Peterson, and Dubinin-Radushkevich isotherm models. Redlich-Peterson isotherm was found to be the best representative for phenol-sorption on all the three adsorbents studied.
17915818	The aim of the present investigation was to develop a novel dosage form of rifampicin and isoniazid to minimize degradation of rifampicin in acidic medium and to modulate the release of rifampicin in the stomach and isoniazid in the intestine. Gastroretentive tablets of rifampicin (150 mg) were prepared by the wet granulation method using hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, calcium carbonate, and polyethylene glycol 4000. The granules and tablets of rifampicin were characterized. Hard gelatin capsules (size 4) containing a compacted mass of isoniazid (150 mg) and dicalcium phosphate (75 mg) were enteric coated. Two tablets of rifampicin and 1 capsule (size 4) of isoniazid were put into a hard gelatin capsule (size 00). The in vitro drug release and in vitro drug degradation studies were performed. Rifampicin was released over 4 hours by zero-order kinetics from the novel dosage form. More than 90% of isoniazid was released in alkaline medium in 30 minutes. The results of dissolution studies with the US Pharmacopeia XXIII method revealed that a substantial amount of rifampicin was degraded from the immediate release capsule containing rifampicin and isoniazid powder owing to drug accumulation in the dissolution vessel and also to the presence of isoniazid. The degradation of rifampicin to 3-formyl rifampicin SV (3FRSV) was arrested (3.6%-4.8% degradation of rifampicin at 4 hours) because of the minimization of physical contact between the 2 drugs and controlled release of rifampicin in acidic medium in the modified Rossett-Rice apparatus. This study concludes that the problem of rifampicin degradation can be alleviated to a certain extent by this novel dosage form.
17916113	Potassium uptake is one of the most basic processes of plant physiology. However, a comprehensive description is lacking. At a cellular level fungi have provided a helpful but imperfect plant model, which we aim to improve using Physcomitrella patens. Blast searches in expressed sequence tag databases demonstrated that Physcomitrella expresses the same families of K(+) and Na(+) transport systems as flowering plants. We cloned two inward rectifier channels, PpAKT1-2, and four HAK-type transporters (PpHAK1-4). In both types of transport system, phylogenetic analyses revealed that despite their high sequence conservation they could not be included in Arabidopsis or rice (Oryza sativa) clusters. Both inward rectifier channels and one HAK transporter (PpHAK1) were expressed in yeast. PpAKT1 and activated mutants of PpAKT2 and PpHAK1 showed clear functions that were similar to those of homologous systems of flowering plants. A pphak1 null mutant line of Physcomitrella failed to deplete K(+) below 10 mum. Moreover, in a non-K(+)-limiting medium in which wild-type plants grew only as protonema, pphak1-1 plants produced leafy gametophores and contained 60% more K(+). We found that Physcomitrella takes up K(+) through several systems. PpHAK1 is the dominant system in plants that underwent K(+) starvation for long periods but an as-yet unidentified system, which is non-selective for K(+), Rb(+), and Cs(+), dominates in many other conditions. Finally, we discuss that, similar to PpHAK1, one of the functions of AtHAK5 may be to control cellular K(+) content and that a non-selective as-yet unidentified system also exists in Arabidopsis.
17916271	Nilaparvata lugens Stl, the Brown Planthopper (BPH), is a major pest in rice. The lycosid Pardosa pseudoannulata (Bsenberg & Strand) and the linyphiid Atypena formosana (Oi) are the early dominant predators in irrigated rice. Later, predatory bugs, including the mirid Cyrtorhinus lividipennis Reuter, become dominant. In unsprayed rice, BPH numbers normally remain low. While P. pseudoannulata is known to be a key natural enemy of BPH, the contribution to BPH reduction by the smaller A. formosana is less well known. Due to the size difference, A. formosana may also be an intraguild prey of P. pseudoannulata. To investigate predation on BPH by the two spider species alone, together and in combination with C. lividipennis, two cage experiments were conducted, the first with adult spiders, the second with immature/unmated spiders. In the latter, spiders were introduced with a delay to allow a better establishment of C. lividipennis. In both experiments, BPH numbers were lowest in treatments with more than one predator species present. Intermediate BPH reduction was obtained with P. pseudoannulata followed by A. formosana and C. lividipennis. While P. pseudoannulata can prey upon large nymphs and adult BPH, A. formosana favour early instar BPH, leading to a more even control across instars in treatments with both spider species. Pardosa pseudoannulata numbers increased more with A. formosana or A. formosana and C. lividipennis present. In contrast, P. pseudoannulata reduced A. formosana and C. lividipennis numbers. The presence of C. lividipennis apparently lessened intraguild predation on A. formosana and may be an intraguild prey of A. formosana. Competition for prey may have added to the antagonistic interactions found. From a biological control perspective, the presence of both spiders in early rice is an advantage for the biological control of BPH in rice. In early rice, results show that A. formosana is an important predator of BPH and, like C. lividipennis, can complement control by P. pseudoannulata and serve as intraguild prey for the latter species.
17916500	Phloem-sap feeding Hemipteran insects have access to a sucrose-rich diet but are dependent on sucrose hydrolysis and hexose transport for carbon nutrition. A cDNA library from Nilaparvata lugens (rice brown planthopper) was screened for clones encoding potential transmembrane transporters. A selected cDNA, NlHT1, encodes a 53kDa polypeptide with sequence similarity to facilitative hexose transporters of eukaryotes and prokaryotes, including GLUT1, the human erythrocyte hexose transporter. NlHT1 was expressed as a recombinant protein in the methylotropic yeast Pichia pastoris, and was identified in a membrane fraction isolated from transformed yeast cells. Transport experiments using membrane vesicles containing NlHT1 showed that the protein is a saturable, sodium independent transporter, with a relatively low affinity for glucose (K(m) 3.0mM), which can be inhibited by cytochalasin B. Competition experiments with fructose demonstrate NlHT1 is glucose specific. In situ localisation studies revealed that NlHT1 mRNA is expressed in N. lugens gut tissue, mainly in midgut regions, and that expression is absent in hindgut and Malpighian tubules. NlHT1 is therefore likely to play an important role in glucose transport from the gut, and in carbon nutrition in vivo. This is the first report of a facilitative glucose transporter from a phloem-feeding insect pest.
17916638	Reactive oxygen species are thought to play an important role in NaCl stress. Therefore, the expression patterns of the gene family encoding the H(2)O(2)-scavenging enzyme ascorbate peroxidase (APx; EC1.11.1.11) were analysed in roots of etiolated rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings in response to NaCl stress. Applying semi-quantitative RT-PCR, the mRNA levels were quantified for two cytosolic (OsAPx1 and OsAPx2), two peroxisomal (OsAPx3 and OsAPx4), and four chloroplastic (OsAPx5, OsAPx6, OsAPx7, and OsAPx8) isoforms identified in the rice genome. NaCl at 150 mM and 200 mM increased the expression of OsAPx8 and the activities of APx, but had no effect on the expression of OsAPx1, OsAPx2, OsAPx3, OsAPx4, OsAPx5, OsAPx6, and OsAPx7 in rice roots. However, NaCl at 300 mM up-regulated OsAPx8 expression, increased APx activity, and down-regulated OsAPx7 expression, but had no effect on the expression of OsAPx1, OsAPx2, OsAPx3, OsAPx4, OsAPx5, and OsAPx6. The accumulation of abscisic acid (ABA) in response to NaCl was observed in rice roots. Exogenously applied ABA also specifically enhanced the expression of OsAPx8 in rice roots. The accumulation of ABA in rice roots in response to NaCl was inhibited by fluridone (Flu), an inhibitor of carotenoid biosynthesis. Flu treatment also suppressed NaCl-enhanced OsAPx8 expression and APx activity. The effect of Flu on the expression of OsAPx8 and increase in APx activity was reversed by the application of ABA. It appears that NaCl-enhanced expression of OsAPx8 in rice roots is mediated through an accumulation of ABA. Evidence is provided to show that Na(+) but not Cl(-) is required for enhancing OsAPx8 expression, APx activity, and ABA accumulation in rice roots treated with NaCl. H(2)O(2) treatment resulted in an enhancement of OsAPx8 induction but no accumulation of ABA. Diphenylene iodonium treatment, which is known to inhibit NaCl-induced accumulation of H(2)O(2) in rice roots, did not suppress OsAPx8 induction and ABA accumulation by NaCl. It appears that H(2)O(2) is not involved in the regulation of NaCl-induced OsAPx8 expression in rice roots.
17917261	Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4-immunoglobulin (CTLA4Ig) has immunosuppressive activity and the ability to induce immune tolerance. There has been no report of its glycosylation ratio or of the role of its glycans. We investigated the terminal sialylation of rice cell-derived recombinant human CTLA4Ig (rrhCTLA4Ig) using lectins. The glycosylation ratios of rrhCTLA4Ig and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell-derived recombinant human CTLA4Ig (crhCTLA4Ig) were evaluated by chemical deglycosylation. After intravenous (i.v.) or subcutaneous (s.c.) administration to rats, the pharmacokinetics of rrhCTLA4Ig and crhCTLA4Ig as well as of their deglycosylated forms were evaluated. rrhCTLA4Ig does not have terminal sialic acids and its glycosylation ratio was slightly lower than that of crhCTLA4Ig. Its terminal elimination half-life (T(1/2)) was shorter than that of crhCTLA4Ig following i.v. administration. However, the half-life was significantly prolonged and was similar with that of crhCTLA4Ig following s.c. administration. Moreover, the deglycosylated forms of both preparations were cleared from the circulation faster than the native forms. These results suggest that the presence of glycans on rrhCTLA4Ig and crhCTA4Ig are important for their in vivo stability. In addition, the glycan structure of rrhCTLA4Ig is more effective in maintaining in vivo stability after s.c. administration than after i.v. administration although the glycans on rrhCTLA4Ig lack terminal sialic acids, suggesting that its glycans have the potential for in vivo stability.
17918309
17918410	Replicated field experiments were used to quantify and to describe the mechanism of competition between the introduced black rat Rattus rattus and the endemic Santiago rice rat Nesoryzomys swarthi on Santiago Island, Galpagos Islands, Ecuador. The removal of R. rattus significantly slowed the rate of seasonal population decline in N. swarthi. This effect was particularly evident for female, relative to male, N. swarthi and appeared to be driven solely by enhanced immigration; no other fitness or space use parameters were affected. The candidate hypotheses to explain the mechanism of competition were exploitation competition, interference by resource defense, and interference by aggressive encounter. To distinguish between hypotheses, we conducted a replicated resource supplementation experiment with patchy food, scattered food, and no food (control) treatments. The opportunistic R. rattus responded to the extra resources with increased adult immigration and juvenile recruitment, resulting in a significant abundance boost of sevenfold on patchy grids and fourfold on scattered grids. Females increased in body mass, and the breeding season was lengthened. In contrast, there was no change in the abundance of N. swarthi and no obvious benefit to reproduction. Instead, the costs of interference apparently outweighed the benefits of extra food: female N. swarthi increased in mass with supplementary food, but female (relative to male) immigration and residency were repressed on all supplemented areas. This response supported the hypothesis of interference by aggressive encounter, and we were able to rule out the alternative hypotheses. Although periodic population crashes of R. rattus on the arid north coast of Santiago may ameliorate its competitive impact, climate change may tip the balance. Control or eradication of R. rattus should improve future survival prospects for N. swarthi, but wildlife managers must be prepared for the potential eruption of the introduced house mouse Mus musculus, because this species experienced a release from interference competition and immigrated to removal areas.
17918598	Previous studies have shown that porous hydrated calcium silicate (PS) is very effective in decreasing cadmium (Cd) content in brown rice. However, it is unclear whether the PS influences cadmium transformation in soil. The present study examined the effect of PS on pH, cadmium transformation and cadmium solubility in Andosol and Alluvial soil, and also compared its effects with CaCO3, acidic porous hydrated calcium silicate (APS) and silica gel. Soil cadmium was operationally fractionationed into exchangeable (Exch), bound to carbonates (Carb), bound to iron and manganese oxides (FeMnO(x)), bound to organic matters (OM) and residual (Res) fraction. Application of PS and CaCO3 at hig rates enhanced soil pH, while APS and silica gel did not obviously change soil pH. PS and CaCO3 also increased the FeMnO(x)-Cd in Andosol and Carb-Cd in Alluvial soil, thus reducing the Exch-Cd in the tested soils. However, PS was less effective than CaCO3 at the same application rate. Cadmium fractions in the two soils were not changed by the treatments of APS and silica gel. There were no obvious differences in the solubility of cadmium in soils treated with PS, APS, silica gel and CaCO3 except Andosol treated 2.0% CaCO3 at the same pH of soil-CaCl2 suspensions. These findings suggested that the decrease of cadmium availability in soil was mainly attributed to the increase of soil pH caused by PS.
17919681	The ability of FeCl3 to extract Cd from three paddy soils was compared with that of various irons, manganese, and zinc salts to elucidate the extraction mechanism. Manganese, zinc and iron salts (including FeCl3) extracted 4-41%, 8-44% and 24-66% of total Cd, respectively. This difference reflected the pH of the extraction solution, indicating that the primary mechanism of Cd extraction by FeCl3 is proton release coupled with hydroxide generation, as iron hydroxides are insoluble. Washing with FeCl3 led to the formation of Cd-chloride complexes, enhancing Cd extraction from the soils. FeCl3 effectively extracted Cd from all of the three soils compared to HCl that is a conventional washing chemical, when the concentrations of the two washing chemicals were between 15 and 60mM(c) (at above extraction pH 2.4), while the corresponding extraction pH of FeCl3 was slightly higher than HCl. As HCl is the strong acid of complete dissociation, if excess amount of HCl was added to soil, it is possible to give the dissolution of clay minerals in soils. In contrast, proton release from FeCl3 is controlled by the chemical equilibrium of hydroxide formation. While soil fertility properties were affected by a bench-scale soil washing with 45mM(c) FeCl3, adverse effects were not crucial and could be corrected. The bench-scale test confirmed the effectiveness of FeCl3 for removal of soil Cd. The washing had no negative effect on rice yield and lowered the Cd concentration of rice grain and rice straw in a pot experiment.
17919702	Interactions between the gastrointestinal immune system and the luminal environment play critical roles in maintaining immune homeostasis and in diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease. Although immunomodulation by microbial factors has been studied extensively, little attention has been given to the potential immunomodulatory effects of ingested foods. We characterized the effects of cereal grains on the immune response in human subjects and investigated the mechanism. PBMCs from healthy individuals were incubated with cereal grain extracts, and cytokine levels in cell-free supernatants were measured. The cellular source of IL-10 and the role of monocytes were investigated by means of flow cytometry and cell-depletion/reconstitution experiments. Extracts of cereal grains, including rice and wheat, induced marked IL-10 production from PBMCs. Intracellular cytokine staining and cell-depletion experiments showed that CD14+ monocytes produced IL-10. Importantly, when PBMCs were stimulated with concanavalin A, cereal grains concentration-dependently inhibited their production of IL-5, IL-13, and IFN-gamma; neutralizing IL-10 or removing the monocytes abrogated this inhibitory effect. This cereal grain-induced IL-10 response was polymyxin B sensitive, heat resistant, and inhibited by blocking the Toll-like receptor 4. Cereal grains have strong innate immunomodulatory effects by inducing marked production of IL-10 from CD14+ monocytes in vitro. LPS or LPS-mimicking activity in cereal grains might be responsible. The potential immunomodulatory effects of cereal grains need further study in vivo.
17922261	Promoters play key roles in conferring temporal, spatial, chemical, developmental, or environmental regulation of gene expression. Promoters that are subject to specific regulations are useful for manipulating foreign gene expression in plant cells, tissues, or organs with desirable patterns and under controlled conditions, and have been important for both basic research and applications in agriculture biotechnology. Recent advances in genomics technologies have greatly facilitated identification and study of promoters in a genome scale with high efficiency. Previously we have generated a large T-DNA tagged rice mutant library (TRIM), in which the T-DNA was designed with a gene/promoter trap system, by placing a promoter-less GUS gene next to the right border of T-DNA. GUS activity screens of this library offer in situ and in planta identifications and analyses of promoter activities in their native configurations in the rice genome. In the present study, we systematically performed GUS activity screens of the rice mutant library for genes/promoters constitutively, differentially, or specifically active in vegetative and reproductive tissues. More than 8,200 lines have been screened, and 11% and 22% of them displayed GUS staining in vegetative tissues and in flowers, respectively. Among the vegetative tissue active promoters, the ratio of leaf active versus root active is about 1.6. Interestingly, all the flower active promoters are anther active, but with varied activities in different flower tissues. To identify tissue specific ABA/stress up-regulated promoters, we compared microarray data of ABA/stress induced genes with those of tissue-specific expression determined by promoter trap GUS staining. Following this approach, we showed that the peroxidase 1 gene promoter was ABA up-regulated by 4 fold within 1 day of exposure to ABA and its expression is lateral root specific. We suggest that this be an easy bioinformatics approach in identifying tissue/cell type specific promoters that are up-regulated by hormones or other factors.
17922660	In this study, the interaction between rice 14-3-3 protein and 1-aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid synthase (ACS) was observed in yeast cells using yeast two-hybrid assays. Given the fact that 14-3-3 proteins generally bind to their target proteins in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, a hypothesis regarding the regulatory role of 14-3-3 proteins in the activation of ACS is proposed in which 14-3-3 proteins may bind to the phosphorylated C-terminal tails of ACSs and help them to escape from their fated degradation when ethylene biosynthesis is needed. It is reasonable to believe that 14-3-3 protein may play an important role in regulating ACS activity.
17923480	Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a plant disease with serious economic and health impacts. It is caused by fungal species belonging to the genus Fusarium and the mycotoxins they produce. Although it has proved difficult to combat this disease, one strategy that has been examined is the introduction of an indigenous fungal protective gene into cereals such as wheat barley and rice. Thus far the gene of choice has been tri101 whose gene product catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl coenzyme A to the C3 hydroxyl moiety of several trichothecene mycotoxins. In vitro this has been shown to reduce the toxicity of the toxins by approximately 100-fold but has demonstrated limited resistance to FHB in transgenic cereal. To understand the molecular basis for the differences between in vitro and in vivo resistance the three-dimensional structures and kinetic properties of two TRI101 orthologs isolated from Fusarium sporotrichioides and Fusarium graminearum have been determined. The kinetic results reveal important differences in activity of these enzymes toward B-type trichothecenes such as deoxynivalenol. These differences in activity can be explained in part by the three-dimensional structures for the ternary complexes for both of these enzymes with coenzyme A and trichothecene mycotoxins. The structural and kinetic results together emphasize that the choice of an enzymatic resistance gene in transgenic crop protection strategies must take into account the kinetic profile of the selected protein.
17923667	From a global viewpoint, a number of challenges need to be met for sustainable rice production: (i) increasingly severe occurrence of insects and diseases and indiscriminate pesticide applications; (ii) high pressure for yield increase and overuse of fertilizers; (iii) water shortage and increasingly frequent occurrence of drought; and (iv) extensive cultivation in marginal lands. A combination of approaches based on the recent advances in genomic research has been formulated to address these challenges, with the long-term goal to develop rice cultivars referred to as Green Super Rice. On the premise of continued yield increase and quality improvement, Green Super Rice should possess resistances to multiple insects and diseases, high nutrient efficiency, and drought resistance, promising to greatly reduce the consumption of pesticides, chemical fertilizers, and water. Large efforts have been focused on identifying germplasms and discovering genes for resistance to diseases and insects, N- and P-use efficiency, drought resistance, grain quality, and yield. The approaches adopted include screening of germplasm collections and mutant libraries, gene discovery and identification, microarray analysis of differentially regulated genes under stressed conditions, and functional test of candidate genes by transgenic analysis. Genes for almost all of the traits have now been isolated in a global perspective and are gradually incorporated into genetic backgrounds of elite cultivars by molecular marker-assisted selection or transformation. It is anticipated that such strategies and efforts would eventually lead to the development of Green Super Rice.
17923862	To investigate whether a diet with a reduced glycaemic index (GI) has effects on appetite, energy intake, body weight and composition in overweight and obese female subjects. Randomized crossover intervention study including two consecutive 12-week periods. Lower or higher GI versions of key carbohydrate-rich foods (breads, breakfast cereals, rice and pasta/potatoes) were provided to subjects to be incorporated into habitual diets in ad libitum quantities. Foods intended as equivalents to each other were balanced in macronutrient composition, fibre content and energy density. Nineteen overweight and obese women, weight-stable, with moderate hyperinsulinaemia (age: 34-65 years, body mass index: 25-47 kg m(-2), fasting insulin: 49-156 pmol l(-1)). Dietary intake, body weight and composition after each 12-week intervention. Subjectively rated appetite and short-term ad libitum energy intake at a snack and lunch meal following fixed lower and higher GI test breakfasts (GI 52 vs 64) in a laboratory setting. Free-living diets differed in GI by 8.4 units (55.5 vs 63.9), with key foods providing 48% of carbohydrate intake during both periods. There were no differences in energy intake, body weight or body composition between treatments. On laboratory investigation days, there were no differences in subjective ratings of hunger or fullness, or in energy intake at the snack or lunch meal. This study provides no evidence to support an effect of a reduced GI diet on satiety, energy intake or body weight in overweight/obese women. Claims that the GI of the diet per se may have specific effects on body weight may therefore be misleading.
17924090	Bacterial blight of rice, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is the most devastating disease of rice (Oryza sativa L). Rice lines that carry resistance (R) gene Xa10 confer race-specific resistance to Xoo strains harboring avirulence (Avr) gene avrXa10. Here we report on genetic study, disease evaluation and fine genetic mapping of the Xa10 gene. The inheritance of Xa10-mediated resistance to PXO99A(pHM1avrXa10) did not follow typical Mendelian inheritance for single dominant gene in F2 population derived from IR24 x IRBB10. A locus might be present in IRBB10 that caused distorted segregation in F2 population. To eliminate this locus, an F3 population (F3-65) was identified, which showed normal Mendelian segregation ratio of 3:1 for resistance and susceptibility. A new near-isogenic line (F3-65-1743) of Xa10 in IR24 genetic background was developed and designated as IRBB10A. IRBB10A retained similar resistance specificity as that of IRBB10 and provided complete resistance to PXO99A(pHM1avrXa10) from seedling to adult stages. Linkage analysis using existing RFLP markers and F2 mapping population mapped the Xa10 locus to the proximal side of E1981S with genetic distance at 0.93 cM. With five new RFLP markers developed from the genomic sequence of Nipponbare, Xa10 was finely mapped at genetic distance of 0.28 cM between proximal marker M491 and distal marker M419 and co-segregated with markers S723 and M604. The physical distance between M491 and M419 on Nipponbare genome is 74 kb. Seven genes have been annotated from this 74-kb region and six of them are possible Xa10 candidates. The results of this study will be useful in Xa10 cloning and marker-assisted breeding.
17924709	For centuries, red mold rice has been made by fermentation of cooked rice with Monascus species. However, the influence of different carbon sources on the metabolism of Monascus cells remains unclear. We compared the proteome response of Monascus pilosus to replacement of the rice starch fraction with lactose during cultivation, using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization time-of-flight/time-of-flight mass spectrometry, and tandem mass spectrometry to identify the proteins expressed. The results showed that cell growth and monascorubramine pigment formation of M. pilosus were sensitive to rice starch limitation during cultivation. A total of 12 proteins were identified with statistically altered expression in the cells cultivated with lactose. These deregulated proteins were involved in glycolysis, TCA cycle, energy generation, protein folding, and peptide biosynthesis. The possible metabolic flux shifts induced by rice starch limitation were discussed. The results suggested that the suppression of monascorubramine formation could be related to the necessary energy-requiring adaptations executed in response to carbon depletion during rice starch limitation.
17925053	In Bangladesh, some commonly consumed, indigenous, freshwater small fish species (eaten whole with bone, head and eyes) such as mola (Amblypharyngodon mola) are nutrient-dense, containing preformed vitamin A as retinol and especially 3,4-dehydroretinol. The objective of the present randomised, controlled efficacy study was to evaluate the effects of mola on biochemical indicators of vitamin A status. Children (n 196), aged 3-7 years, with serum retinol 0.36-0.75 micromol/l, were randomly allocated to one of three treatment groups to receive a daily test meal (6 d/week for 9 weeks) of rice and vegetable curry (no vitamin A) ad libitum and 50 g fish curry consisting of: (1) mola, 600 retinol activity equivalents (RAE) (using 40 % biological activity of 3,4-dehydroretinol isomers) (experimental group, n 66); (2) rui (Labeo rohita), a large fish (no vitamin A), with added retinyl palmitate, 600 RAE (positive control group, n 65); or (3) rui, 0 RAE (negative control group, n 65). The nutrient compositions of the dishes were analysed. After 9 weeks, no significant treatment effects were observed for serum retinol (P = 0.52) and retinol-binding protein (P = 0.81) in the experimental group compared with the negative control, whereas the positive control improved significantly (P < 0.001). The present results do not suggest conversion of the large amount of 3,4-dehydroretinol in mola curry to retinol. Further research on the functional effect of mola in humans is needed. Mola is a nutrient-dense animal-source food, rich in haem Fe, Zn and especially Ca, thus consumption of mola in Bangladesh should continue to be encouraged.
17925300	Most rhizobial strains inhibit rice root growth in the presence of calcium or potassium nitrates, but not ammonium nitrate. Certain rhizobial strains, however, such as strain R4, do not inhibit rice growth and can enter rice roots and multiply in the intercellular spaces. By using the green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a visual marker, it was found that Rhizobium became intimately associated with rice seedling roots within 24-48 h. During this initial period it was observed that strain R4 could cause structural changes resembling infection threads within the rice root hairs. Generally, the sites of the emerging lateral roots provide a temporary entry point for rhizobia, either by root hair entry or crack entry. All tested GFP-labelled Rhizobium strains infected the root hairs near the base of growing lateral roots. This study suggests that some strains may have the ability to infect rice root tissues via root hairs located at the emerging lateral roots and to spread extensively throughout the rice root.
17926139	An alpha-amylase gene from Bacillus stearothermophilus under the control of the promoter of a major rice-seed storage protein was introduced into rice. The transgenic line with the highest alpha-amylase activity reached about 15,000 U/g of seeds (one unit is defined as the amount of enzyme that produces 1 mumol of reducing sugar in 1 min at 70 degrees C). The enzyme produced in the seeds had an optimum pH of 5.0-5.5 and optimum temperature of 60-70 degrees C. Without extraction or purification, the power of transgenic rice seeds was able to liquify 100 times its weight of corn powder in 2 h. Thus, the transgenic rice could be used for industrial starch liquefaction.
17926423	Measurements of nocturnal ecosystem respiration were conducted in a rice paddy of Sanjiang from July to September in 2004 and in a soybean field from June to September in 2005, using eddy covariance (EC) and dark chamber-gas chromatography (DC-GC). The differences of simultaneous data measured by two methods were not significant when night turbulent mixing was well. The correlations between two methods can be improved under more large friction velocity. EC measurements were poorly correlated to night ecosystem respiration estimated by chamber models for the variability inherent to EC measurements (R2 = 0.06, 0.23 for rice and soybean, respectively). However, this correlation can be improved by aggregating measurements over longer time period (R2 = 0.16, 0.75 for rice and soybean field, respectively). In general, whatever comparison with simultaneous chamber measurements or modeled results, eddy covariance measurements were consistently lower 4% - 30% than chambers, and this bias varied with crop growing stage, which were maximum in middle and minimum in early and late growing stage.
17927198	Monascus-fermented red mold rice has been extensively used as a folk medicine for thousands of years. Monascus secondary metabolites, including monacolin K, monascorubrin, and ankaflavin, have been reported to have an antiproliferative effect on cancer cells. However, the cell machinery responsible for the antiproliferation of Monascus-fermented red mold rice treatment in cancer cells remains unclear. A proteomic approach using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight/time-of-flight mass spectrometry, and tandem mass spectrometry was used to identify proteins with modified expression in Caco-2 cells treated with Monascus-fermented red mold rice extract. A total of 20 proteins were identified with significantly altered expression (P < 0.05) in response to Monascus-fermented red mold rice extract treatment. The deregulated proteins that were identified included heat shock protein 70, protein kinase C epsilon type, clusterin-associated protein 1, and two tumor suppressors (N-chimaerin and calponin-2). Our results suggested the involvement of heat shock protein 70-mediated cytotoxicity in the Caco-2 cells treated with Monascus-fermented red mold rice extract.
17928121	In arsenic-endemic and other areas, food is an important path of exposure to this contaminant. Food is generally consumed in processed form, after a preservation treatment or cooking, which may alter the concentrations and chemical forms of arsenic. This article summarizes and discusses the work so far published on the effect that thermal treatment used in the cooking or processing of food, including sterilization and preservation stages, has on total arsenic and arsenic species contents. It also reviews possible transformations in arsenic species. The studies included use model systems or food products of marine or vegetable origin. Processing may cause a considerable increase or decrease in the real arsenic intake from food. For example, traditional washing and soaking of Hizikia fusiforme seaweed, which has very high inorganic arsenic contents, may reduce the contents by up to 60%. On the other hand, all the arsenic present in cooking water may be retained during boiling of rice, increasing the contents of this metalloid to significant levels from a toxicological viewpoint. This calls for modifications in arsenic risk assessment, hitherto based on analysis of the raw product. It is necessary to consider the effect of processing on total arsenic and arsenical species in order to obtain a realistic view of the risk associated with intake in arsenic-endemic and other areas.
17928258	Over a quarter of all eukaryotic genes encode proteins with obscure features that lack currently defined motifs or domains (POFs). Interestingly, most of the differences in gene repertoire among species were recently found to be attributed to POFs. A comparison of the Arabidopsis, rice and poplar genomes reveals that Arabidopsis contains 5069 POFs, of which 2045 have no obvious homologs in rice or poplar and are likely to be involved in species- or phylogenetic-specific functions in Arabidopsis. The study of POFs is an important endeavor that will shed much needed light on the genetic properties that make any given plant species unique. Furthermore, with respect to many species-specific features, such studies show that we seem to be limited in what we can expect to learn from a model plant such as Arabidopsis.
17928694	Two metabolites, 2-epi-botcinin A and 3-O-acetylbotcineric acid, were isolated from Botrytis cinerea (AEM211). The former compound was new, and the latter was known but structurally revised by us. In a test for antifungal activity against Magnaporthe grisea, a pathogen of rice blast disease, 2-epi-botcinin A was 8 times less active than botcinin A (MIC 100 microM), and the MIC value for 3-O-acetylbotcineric acid being 100 microM.
17928714	Rice mold starters prepared from Aspergillus species are commonly used for the manufacture of koji in the production of oriental fermented foods. Methanol extracts of rice mold starters fermented by the Aspergillus species, A. awamori, A. kawachii, A. oryzae, A. saitoi, and A. sojae, were examined for their antioxidative activity by using a 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging system. The extracts of A. awamori, A. kawachii, and A. saitoi exhibited higher activity than those of A. oryzae and A. sojae. An antioxidant was isolated from the extract of A. saitoi and identified as pyranonigrin-A by 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, and FAB-MS analyses. The antioxidative activity of pyranonigrin-A was approximately equivalent to that of ferulic acid, an antioxidant in cereal grain. It was present in rice mold starters prepared by A. awamori, A. kawachii, and A. saitoi, although there was no pyranonigrin-A in the A. oryzae and A. sojae starters. The results suggest that the content of pyranonigrin-A in rice mold starters has a correlation with the antioxidative activity, and that it is induced in rice mold starters at the sporulation stage.
17929162	In order to estimate genetic diversity of rice (Oryza sativa L.) germplasm in Yunnan Province of China, 60 varieties from different regions were analyzed by microsatellite (SSR) fingerprints. Nine selected SSR primer pairs amplified a total of 55 alleles from these varieties, and high genetic diversity (0.706) was found, although it was not evenly distributed across the regions. Marked genetic variation was detected within the traditional varieties. A UPGMA dendrogram based on SSR polymorphism indicated a great variation among the rice varieties, with coefficients ranging between 0.229 and 1.000. The formation of the rice diversity pattern in Yunnan is associated with natural conditions and especially with diverse cultural demands and farming styles. Strategic conservation of rice germplasm in Yunnan is important, and this could be implemented by collecting varieties across geographic regions with sufficient individuals within the same varieties. Effective rice conservation should also consider cultural aspects during collection.
17929174	The latest report has estimated the number of rice genes to be approximately 32,000. To elucidate the functions of a large population of rice genes and to search efficiently for agriculturally useful genes, we have been taking advantage of the Full-length cDNA Over-eXpresser (FOX) gene-hunting system. This system is very useful for analyzing various gain-of-function phenotypes from large populations of transgenic plants overexpressing cDNAs of interest and others with unknown or important functions. We collected the plasmid DNAs of 13,980 independent full-length cDNA (FL-cDNA) clones to produce a FOX library by placing individual cDNAs under the control of the maize Ubiquitin-1 promoter. The FOX library was transformed into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated high-speed transformation. So far, we have generated approximately 12,000 FOX-rice lines. Genomic PCR analysis indicated that the average number of FL-cDNAs introduced into individual lines was 1.04. Sequencing analysis of the PCR fragments carrying FL-cDNAs from 8615 FOX-rice lines identified FL-cDNAs in 8225 lines, and a database search classified the cDNAs into 5462 independent ones. Approximately 16.6% of FOX-rice lines examined showed altered growth or morphological characteristics. Three super-dwarf mutants overexpressed a novel gibberellin 2-oxidase gene,confirming the importance of this system. We also show here the other morphological alterations caused by individual FL-cDNA expression. These dominant phenotypes should be valuable indicators for gene discovery and functional analysis.
17929185	The reuse of treated municipal wastewater should be one of the new water resource target areas. The suitability of the reuse of wastewater for agricultural irrigation has to consider health risk, soil contamination and the influence of the reclaimed water on crop growth. In this work the aim is to use quantitative risk analysis to assess the health effects related to reclaimed water quality and to calculate the loading capacity of reclaimed wastewater in terms of the heavy metal accumulation. The results of chemical risk assessment show there would be slightly significant health risk and what risk there is can be limited within an acceptable level. The following exposure pathway: reclaimed water-->surface water-->fish (shellfish)-->human, and arsenic risks are of more concern. In terms of reuse impact in soil contamination, the most possible heavy metal caused accumulation is arsenic. The irrigative quantity has to reach 13,300 m(3)/ha to cause arsenic accumulation. However, only 12,000 m(3)/ha is essential for rice paddy cropland. The high total nitrogen of reclaimed water from secondary treatment makes it unfavorable for crop growth. The recommended dilution ratio is 50% during the growth period and 25% during the maturity period.
17929891	The carcinogenic mycotoxin fumonisin B2 was detected for the first time in the industrially important Aspergillus niger. Fumonisin B2, known from Fusarium verticillioides and other Fusaria, was detected in cultures of three full genome sequenced strains of A. niger, in the ex type culture and in a culture of F. verticillioides by electrospray LC-MS analysis of methanolic extracts from agar plugs of cultures grown on several substrates. Whereas F. verticillioides produced fumonisins B1, B2, and B3 on agar media based on plant extracts, such as barley malt, oat, rice, potatoes, and carrots, A. niger produced fumonisin B2 best on agar media with a low water activity, including Czapek yeast autolysate agar with 5% NaCl. Of the media tested, only rice corn steep agar supported fumonisin production by both F. verticillioides and A. niger. However, A. niger had a different regulation of fumonisin production and a different quantitative profile of fumonisins, producing only B2 as compared to F. verticillioides. Fumonisin production by A. niger, which is a widely occurring species and an extremely important industrial organism, will have very important implications for biotechnology and especially food safety. A. niger is used for the production of citric acid and as producer of extracellular enzymes, and also as a transformation host for the expression of heterologous proteins. Certain strains of A. niger produce both ochratoxin A and fumonisins, so some foods and feeds may potentially contain two types of carcinogenic mycotoxins from this species.
17931745	The secretion levels of momilactone A from rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings of eight cultivars into the rhizosphere were compared with the endogenous momilactone A concentrations in their shoots and roots. All rice cultivars contained momilactone A in the shoots and roots, and concentrations differed among the cultivars. Momilactone A was also found in all culture solutions in which the rice seedlings were grown, and the concentrations differed among the cultivars. The momilactone A concentrations in the culture solutions were reflected in the momilactone A concentrations in the shoots. These results suggest that all rice cultivars may produce momilactome A and secrete momilactone A into the culture solutions. The secretion levels of momilactone A may be more dependent on their capacities for momilactone A production in the shoots than on their capacities for momilactone A transportation from the shoots into the environment via the roots. As momilactone A acts as an antimicrobial and allelopathic agent, the secretion of momilactone A into the rice rhizosphere may provide a competitive advantage for root establishment through local suppression of soil microorganisms and inhibition of the growth of competing plant species.
17931860	Studies were carried out on the enzyme activities of Pleurotus tuber-regium fruitbodies and sclerotia cultivated in various agro-wastes. Higher activities of proteinase, total amylase, and glucose-6-phosphatase were observed in the sporophores compared to the sclerotia. Cellulase, carboxymethylcellulase and lipase values were higher in fruitbodies grown on cotton waste, sawdust of Khaya ivorensis and rice straw (2.4, 0.4 and 3.0 mg/h/mg protein, respectively). Sclerotia propagated on groundnut shells and cocoyam peels had lipase and phenoloxidase levels of 5.8 and 2.6 mg/h/mg protein, respectively. The peroxidase, alpha-amylase and catalase activities were also determined. The implication of these findings in relation to shelf-life, food nutrient, and flavour of this mushroom are discussed.
17932040	Curcuminoids, major components of the spice turmeric, are used as a traditional Asian medicine and a food additive. Curcumin, a representative curcuminoid, has received a great deal of attention because of its anti-inflammatory, anticarcinogenic, and antitumor activities. Here we report a novel type III polyketide synthase named curcuminoid synthase from Oryza sativa, which synthesizes bisdemethoxycurcumin via a unique mechanism from two 4-coumaroyl-CoAs and one malonyl-CoA. The reaction begins with the thioesterification of the thiol moiety of Cys-174 by a starter molecule, 4-coumaroyl-CoA. Decarboxylative condensation of the first extender substrate, malonyl-CoA, onto the thioester of 4-coumarate results in the formation of a diketide-CoA intermediate. Subsequent hydrolysis of the intermediate yields a beta-keto acid, which in turn acts as the second extender substrate. The beta-keto acid is then joined to the Cys-174-bound 4-coumarate by decarboxylative condensation to form bisdemethoxycurcumin. This reaction violates the traditional head-to-tail model of polyketide assembly; the growing diketide intermediate is hydrolyzed to a beta-keto acid that subsequently serves as the second extender to form curcuminoids. Curcuminoid synthase appears to be capable of the synthesis of not only diarylheptanoids but also gingerol analogues, because it synthesized cinnamoyl(hexanoyl)methane, a putative intermediate of gingerol, from cinnamoyl-CoA and 3-oxo-octanoic acid.
17932303	The development of novel transformation vectors is essential to the improvement of plant transformation technologies. Here, we report the construction and testing of a new multifunctional dual binary vector system, pCLEAN, for Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation. The pCLEAN vectors are based on the widely used pGreen/pSoup system and the pCLEAN-G/pCLEAN-S plasmids are fully compatible with the existing pGreen/pSoup vectors. A single Agrobacterium can harbor (1) pCLEAN-G and pSoup, (2) pGreen and pCLEAN-S, or (3) pCLEAN-G and pCLEAN-S vector combination. pCLEAN vectors have been designed to enable the delivery of multiple transgenes from distinct T-DNAs and/or vector backbone sequences while minimizing the insertion of superfluous DNA sequences into the plant nuclear genome as well as facilitating the production of marker-free plants. pCLEAN vectors contain a minimal T-DNA (102 nucleotides) consisting of direct border repeats surrounding a 52-nucleotide-long multiple cloning site, an optimized left-border sequence, a double left-border sequence, restriction sites outside the borders, and two independent T-DNAs. In addition, selectable and/or reporter genes have been inserted into the vector backbone sequence to allow either the counter-screening of backbone transfer or its exploitation for the production of marker-free plants. The efficiency of the different pCLEAN vectors has been assessed using transient and stable transformation assays in Nicotiana benthamiana and/or Oryza sativa.
17932309	The maize (Zea mays) brittle stalk2 (bk2) is a recessive mutant, the aerial parts of which are easily broken. The bk2 phenotype is developmentally regulated and appears 4 weeks after planting, at about the fifth-leaf stage. Before this time, mutants are indistinguishable from wild-type siblings. Afterward, all organs of the bk2 mutants turn brittle, even the preexisting ones, and they remain brittle throughout the life of the plant. Leaf tension assays and bend tests of the internodes show that the brittle phenotype does not result from loss of tensile strength but from loss in flexibility that causes the tissues to snap instead of bend. The Bk2 gene was cloned by a combination of transposon tagging and a candidate gene approach and found to encode a COBRA-like protein similar to rice (Oryza sativa) BC1 and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) COBRA-LIKE4. The outer periphery of the stalk has fewer vascular bundles, and the sclerids underlying the epidermis possess thinner secondary walls. Relative cellulose content is not strictly correlated with the brittle phenotype. Cellulose content in mature zones of bk2 mature stems is lowered by 40% but is about the same as wild type in developing stems. Although relative cellulose content is lowered in leaves after the onset of the brittle phenotype, total wall mass as a proportion of dry mass is either unchanged or slightly increased, indicating a compensatory increase in noncellulosic carbohydrate mass. Fourier transform infrared spectra indicated an increase in phenolic ester content in the walls of bk2 leaves and stems. Total content of lignin is unaffected in bk2 juvenile leaves before or after appearance of the brittle phenotype, but bk2 mature and developing stems are markedly enriched in lignin compared to wild-type stems. Despite increased lignin in bk2 stems, loss of staining with phloroglucinol and ultraviolet autofluorescence is observed in vascular bundles and sclerid layers. Consistent with the infrared analyses, levels of saponifiable hydroxycinnamates are elevated in bk2 leaves and stems. As Bk2 is highly expressed during early development, well before the onset of the brittle phenotype, we propose that Bk2 functions in a patterning of lignin-cellulosic interactions that maintain organ flexibility rather than having a direct role in cellulose biosynthesis.
1793263	In the context of a large project for the socio-economic improvement of the Imbo area, measures were taken for the integration at all levels of malaria control: health centres for improvement of curative care; hygiene and sanitation centres, communes and agricultural projects for vector control; craftsmen, cooperatives and social centres for the manufacture and selling of impregnated bed-nets. The adopted strategy for malaria control results from preliminary epidemiological studies. The recommended measures are the improvement of medical care and vector control. The latter is based on indoor spraying of malathion, once a year. Malathion is only active during the period (2 months) of highest transmission, which occurs at the end of the rainy season. Occasionally other insecticides are used. Impregnated bed-nets with deltamethrin and village draining are complementary methods. In villages of the rice-growing area with good participation of the community, vector control activities have a considerable impact on malaria prevalence. About 70% before the intervention, the prevalence does not exceed 10% in 1990. High parasitaemia (greater than 2000 troph./microliters), and hence morbidity, decreased considerably (35% in 1983 to less than 5% in 1990). In villages with poor community participation, the decrease of prevalence is less spectacular (from 70% to 25%). Drains are not kept in repair and constitute new breeding places of vectors in the populated areas. The use of mosquito bed-nets is not common, a better information campaign should overcome this unpopularity. In peri-urban villages, inhabitants are complaining about indoor spraying, but the results are satisfactory. This programme demonstrates that reducing malaria prevalence and morbidity with conventional measures is feasible in particular biotopes. Health education activities in the Imbo Centre must be pursued and adapted according to the professional activities of the community.
17932646	The use of plant disease resistance (R) genes in breeding programs needs an understanding of their variation patterns. In our current study, we investigated the polymorphisms of 44 NBS-LRR class R-genes among 21 rice cultivars and 14 wild rice populations. Our data suggested that there were four basic types of variations: conserved, diversified, intermediate-diversified, and present/absent patterns. Common characteristics at a locus of conserved R-genes were: copy-number uniformity, clear divergence (long branches) with other paralogs, and highly identical alleles. On the other hand, copy-number variability, a nearly equal and non-zero branch lengths, and high levels of nucleotide diversity were observed at the loci of highly diversified R-genes. Research suggests that the ratio of diverse alleles to the total number of genes at a locus is one of the best criteria to characterize the variation pattern of an R-gene. Our data suggested that a significant genetic reduction was detected only in four present/absent R-genes, compared with the variation observed in wild rice. In general, no difference was detected between wild rice and cultivars, japonica and indica rice, or between lines from different geographic regions. Our results also suggested that R-genes were under strong selection, which shaped R-gene variation patterns.
17932678	To investigate the rice root proteome, we applied the PEG fractionation technique combined with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis which rendered more well-separated protein spots. Out of the 295 chosen proteins, 93 were identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. The proteins were classified as relating to metabolism (38.7%), reactive oxygen species (ROS)-related proteins (22.5%), protein processing/degradation (8.6%), stress/defense (7.5%), energy (6.5%) and signal transduction (5.4%). The high percentage of ROS-related proteins found in rice root brings us to assess the roles of ROS on rice root growth. Treatment with ROS quenching chemicals such as reduced glutathione (GSH), diphenyleneiodonium (DPI) and ascorbate inhibited root growth dose-dependently. Forty-nine proteins identified were either up- or down-regulated by GSH treatment, of which 14 were ROS-related proteins, such noticeably modulated ones as glutathione-S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutases (SOD) and L-ascorbate peroxidases. The protein levels of four GSTs (NS4, 8, 56 and 57), three APXs (NS46, 49 and 50) and MnSOD (NS45) were strongly reduced by GSH treatment but slightly reduced by ascorbate and DPI. Ascorbate and DPI strongly inhibited expression levels of a catalase A (NP23) and an APX (NS65) but did not affect APXs (NS46, 49 and 50) protein levels. Northern analysis demonstrated that changes in transcript levels of five genes--GST (NS4), GST (NS43), Mn-SOD (NS45), APX (NS50) and APX (NS46/49) in response to ROS quenching chemicals were coherent with patterns shown in two-dimensional electrophoresis analyses. Taken together, we suggest that these proteins may take part in an important role in maintaining cellular redox homeostasis during rice root growth.
1793367	Cross-reactivity between rice, wheat, corn, Japanese millet and Italian millet in Poaceae family were studied by absorption test, radioallergosorbent test (RAST), and RAST inhibition assay. In absorption test using Phadebas RAST discs, more than 50% absorption of IgE antibodies was observed between rice, wheat and corn. There were significant correlations of RAST values for cereal grains including rice, wheat, corn, Japanese millet and Italian millet. RAST inhibition assay between every combinations of these cereals showed dose-dependent decrease in IgE-binding. These data indicated cross-reactivity with IgE antibodies between the five cereals in Poaceae family. RAST values for RP16KD significantly correlated with those for Italian millet as well as rice but not with those for corn and wheat. There was a trend of positive correlation between RAST values for RP16KD and Japanese millet. In RAST inhibition assay using sera with positive RAST for these five cereal grains and RP16KD, RP16KD inhibited IgE-binding to these all cereal discs in dose-dependent manner. Similarly, all of five cereal grain extracts showed an effective diminution in IgE-binding to RP16KD disc. These results indicated possible participation of IgE-binding structure on RP16KD in cross-reactivity between these cereal grains in Poaceae family.
1793368	IgE-mediated mechanisms are important in immediate hypersensitive reactions (IHR) to buckwheat. However, a part of subjects with high IgE for buckwheat show no IHR to buckwheat ingestion. Inspite of cross-allergenicity between buckwheat and rice, rice ingestion rarely induces IHR even in subjects with high IgE for rice unlike buckwheat-induced IHR. We speculated that there were some relationships between the presence of IHR to buckwheat and recognition of cross-allergenic determinants on buckwheat components with rice components. We examined IgE-RAST for rice in 58 subjects with positive IgE-RAST for buckwheat. IgE-RAST for Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Dp), egg white and cow's milk as unrelated antigens with rice were also assessed for a comparison. Subjects (n = 33) without IHR to buckwheat showed higher IgE-RAST values for rice than those (n = 25) with IHR, whereas there were no differences in IgE-RAST values for Dp, egg white and cow's milk between two groups with and without IHR. IgE-RAST values for buckwheat showed significant close correlations to those for rice in subjects without IHR to buckwheat but not in those with IHR. There were no significant correlations between IgE-RAST values for buckwheat and for Dp, egg white or cow's milk in both groups with and without IHR. These results suggested that the IgE from subjects without IHR to buckwheat recognized cross-allergenic determinants with rice on the buckwheat components.
1793369	Twelve clinical factors and IgE-RAST of Dermatophagoides farinae (DF) and rice were analysed in three hundred patients with atopic dermatitis by multiple factor analysis of quantification theory Type II. Atopic dermatitis was simply defined here, as a patient who had typical eczematous eruption on the flexural portions of the body, such as the cubital fossa and/or the tibial fossa and/or the neck. The results were as follows: 1) Five clinical items such as onset age, age, history of asthma, sex, and history of allergic rhinitis were selected as significant variables to discriminate the objective variable of DF RAST, and influenced the discrimination in the order. The category of "less than 10 years-old" in the item of onset age, mostly influenced on the positive DF RAST, followed by the categories of "more than 20 years-old" in age, "presence of asthma", "presence of allergic rhinitis", and so on, in the order. 2) Five clinical items such as duration of the disease, eruption on the face, eruption on the trunks and/or extremities, sex, and age were selected as significant variables to discriminate the objective variable of rice RAST, and influenced the discrimination in the order. The category of "more than 5 years" in the item of duration of the disease, mostly influenced on the positive rice RAST, followed by the categories of refractory signs such as "lichenification on the face", "lichenification on the trunks and/or extremities", and so on, in the order. Based on the results by the multiple factor analysis, rice antigen was strongly suspected to have relation with refractory patients with atopic dermatitis.
17934451	Rice, the world's major staple crop, is a poor source of essential micronutrients, including folates (vitamin B9). We report folate biofortification of rice seeds achieved by overexpressing two Arabidopsis thaliana genes of the pterin and para-aminobenzoate branches of the folate biosynthetic pathway from a single locus. We obtained a maximal enhancement as high as 100 times above wild type, with 100 g of polished raw grains containing up to four times the adult daily folate requirement.
17934631	The rice stem bug, Tibraca limbativentris Stal, is an important pest of rice in Brazil. This work evaluated the occurrence of parasitoids in eggs of T.limbativentris egg parasitism in rice crops in the Maranho State. The eggs collected exhibited an average parasitism of 32%. The parasitoids collected were Telenomus podisi (Ashmead), Trissolcus urichi (Crawford) (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae) and Oencyrtus submetallicus (Howard) (Hymenoptera: Encyrtidae).
17934694	Catalase plays a central role in plant stress responses but is highly susceptible to photoinhibition. A rice catalase-B protein avoiding photoinhibition was developed by mutagenesis of specific amino acids: Leu-189 to Trp-189 and His-225 to Thr-225 and then recombinantly expressed in E. coli. In addition, the site specific mutation also induced 2-2.5-fold increase in enzyme velocity with high affinity for its substrate and showed nearly a 3-fold lower K(m) than the wild protein. These characteristic of mutated rice catalase-B is highly promising in transgenic research to increase plant productivity under stress conditions.
17934736	We developed an efficient gene transfer method mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens for introgression of new rice for Africa (NERICA) cultivars, which are derivatives of interspecific hybrids between Oryza glaberrima Steud. and O. sativa L. Freshly isolated immature embryos were inoculated with A. tumefaciens LBA4404 that harbored binary vector pBIG-ubi::GUS or pIG121Hm, which each carried a hygromycin-resistance gene and a GUS gene. Growth medium supplemented with 500 mg/l cefotaxime and 20 mg/l hygromycin was suitable for elimination of bacteria and selection of transformed cells. Shoots regenerated from the selected cells on MS medium containing 20 g/l sucrose, 30 g/l sorbitol, 2 g/l casamino acids, 0.25 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid, 2.5 mg/l kinetin, 250 mg/l cefotaxime, and 20 mg/l hygromycin. The shoots developed roots on hormone-free MS medium containing 30 mg/l hygromycin. Integration and expression of the transgenes were confirmed by PCR, Southern blot analysis, and histochemical GUS assay. Stable integration, expression, inheritance, and segregation of the transgenes were demonstrated by molecular and genetic analyses in the T(0) and T(1) generations. Most plants were normal in morphology and fertile. The transformation protocol produced stable transformants from 16 NERICA cultivars. We also obtained transformed plants by inoculation of calluses derived from mature seeds, but the frequency of transformation was lower and sterility was more frequent.
17935154	The Yayoi period represents the earliest point of agricultural dependence in Japan, dating from approximately 2500 BP to AD 300. Yayoi period people consumed wet-rice as a primary subsistence base. This article uses dental caries prevalence to interpret the biocultural implications of agriculture among these people by testing the following hypotheses: 1) Yayoi period agriculturalists had greater frequencies of carious teeth than Jomon period foragers, 2) regional variation in carious tooth frequencies will be observed among Yayoi period agriculturalists, while 3) variation in carious tooth frequencies will be observed between male and female agriculturalists. Statistically significant differences in carious teeth were observed between the agriculturalists from Southern Honshu and all other samples. These differences suggest greater reliance on cariogenic plants among farmers from Southern Honshu and are consistent with an agricultural economy. The people of the Yayoi period from Tanegashima Island and Northern Kyushu did not have significantly different carious tooth frequencies compared to Jomon period foragers. This suggests that rice alone was not a more cariogenic dietary substance than those consumed by Jomon period foragers but a cariogenic food nonetheless. Dietary heterogeneity between the prehistoric people of the Yayoi period from Southern Honshu and those from Northern Kyushu and Tanegashima Island is also inferred from these differences. Significantly greater frequencies of carious teeth among older aged Yayoi period females compared with males suggest dietary differences between the sexes.
17935759	We investigated the effects of natural environments and human activity on Lake Biwa, central Japan. We determined the concentrations of 19 elements and the compositions of stable S and Sr isotopes in the main tributaries of the lake and compared them with the corresponding values obtained from the lake water during the circulation period. Results of a principal component analysis indicated that the components dissolved in the lower reaches of the tributaries can be divided into group 1 (HCO(3), SO(4), NO(3), Ca, Mg, Sr) and group 2 components (Cl, Br, Na, K, Ba, Rb, Cs). The concentrations of group 1 components were high in the rivers of the southern area, which is urbanized and densely populated, and the eastern area, which consists of plains where agriculture predominates, compared with the rivers of the northern and western areas, which are mostly mountainous and sparsely populated. The concentrations of group 2 components tended to be high in the river water of industrial areas. The delta(34)S values of SO(4) in the river water converged to 0+/-2 per thousand as the SO(4) concentration increased and, excluding the areas where limestone is extensively distributed, as the HCO(3) concentration increased. In particular, both the delta(34)S values (0+/-2 per thousand) and the (87)Sr/(86)Sr ratios (0.7117+/-0.0005) fell within narrow ranges in the small and medium rivers of the eastern plain area, where rice is widely grown. These values agreed respectively with the delta(34)S values of the fertilizers used in the Lake Biwa basin and the soil-exchangeable (87)Sr/(86)Sr in the eastern plain. The characteristics of water quality in the small and medium rivers of the eastern area can be explained by a model in which sulfuric, nitric, and bicarbonic acids generated by the decomposition of agricultural fertilizer and paddy rice selectively leached out alkaline-earth elements adsorbed on the soil and sediments of the plain or dissolved calcium carbonate enriched with Mg and Sr. Compared with tributary waters, the lake water was depleted in NO(3), owing to denitrification, and in Mn, owing to mineralization, which occur under the redox condition of bottom sediments. Excluding NO(3) and Mn, the compositions of both the dissolved elements and the Sr and S isotopes in the water of Lake Biwa can be approximately reproduced by simple mixing of the tributary water, indicating that these components provide effective indices for evaluating the relationship between the waters of the lake and its tributaries.
17935977	Ceriporiopsis subvermispora was used for biochemical pulping of agricultural residues and the results were compared with chemical pulping. Independent variables were screened by Plackett-Burman and optimized by full factorial experimental designs. Biological treatment of rice, wheat and barley straw samples resulted in decrease of the kappa number of these straws by 34%, 21% and 19%, respectively, as compared with controlled samples. The tensile strength and burst factor of hand sheets produced from rice straw were increased by 51% and 33% as compared with the control straws. The tensile strength and burst factor of hand sheets produced from wheat straws were improved by 67% and 36%, these variables for barely straws were 36.7% and 45%, respectively. Although the delignification of wheat and barley straws are not as efficient as chemical process, but the quality of papers produced by biochemical pulping of straws were excellent.
17936412	Food search in a computerized 24h dietary recall (24hdr) for children should be easiest when the categories reflect children's categorization of foods, in contrast to professional categories. This study assessed how 8-13 year old children categorized and labeled mixed foods (e.g. fried rice, lasagna), and how these were influenced by child characteristics. A set of 48 cards with pictures and names of mixed foods from 14 professionally defined food groups was sorted by each child into piles of similar foods. Participants (n=146), including 8-13 year old 130 English speaking, and 16 Spanish speaking children, attended data collection in the summer, 2006. One way ANOVA, pairwise comparisons and Robinson matrices for identification of clusters were used. Children created an average of 10.5 (+/-5.5) piles with 6.0 (+/-4.1) cards per pile. No substantial differences in Robinson clustering were detected across subcategories for each of the demographic characteristics, body mass index, or 6-n-propylthiouracil sensitivity. For the majority of the piles, children provided "taxonomic-professional" (26.0%) labels, such as vegetables, sandwiches and drinks, or "specific-food item" (23.0%) labels, i.e. the name of the food. These categories may be used to facilitate mixed food search in a computerized 24hdr for children in this age group.
17937259
17937267	Around 38% of the area of Bangladesh is irrigated with groundwater to grow dry season crops, most importantly boro rice. Due to high As concentrations in many groundwaters, over 1000 tons of As are thus transferred to arable soils each year, creating a potential risk for future food production. We studied the reactions and changing speciation of As, Fe, P, and other elements in initially anoxic water during and after irrigation and the resulting spatial distribution of As input to paddy soils near Sreenagar (Munshiganj), 30 km south of Dhaka, in January and April 2005 and February 2006. The irrigation water had a constant concentration of 397 +/- 7 microg L(-1) As (approximately 84% As(III)), 11 +/- 0.1 mg L(-1) Fe, and 2 +/- 0.1 mg L(-1) P. During the fast flow along the longest irrigation channel (152 m) As, Fe, and P speciation changed, but total concentrations did not decrease significantly, indicating that As input to fields was independent of the length of the irrigation channels. In contrast, during slow water flow across the fields, As, Fe, and P concentrations decreased strongly with increasing distance from the water inlet, due to formation and settling of As- and P-bearing Fe aggregates and by adsorption to soil minerals. Total As concentrations in field water were approximately 3 times higher close to the inlet than in the opposite field corner shortly after irrigation, and decreased to below 35 microg L(-1) over the next 72 h. The laterally heterogeneous transfer of As, Fe, and P from irrigation waterto soil has important consequences for their distribution in irrigated fields and needs to be considered in sampling and in assessing the dynamics and mass balances of As fluxes among irrigation water, soil, and floodwater.
17937268	Arsenic-rich groundwater from shallow tube wells is widely used for the irrigation of boro rice in Bangladesh and West Bengal. In the long term this may lead to the accumulation of As in paddy soils and potentially have adverse effects on rice yield and quality. In the companion article in this issue, we have shown that As input into paddy fields with irrigation water is laterally heterogeneous. To assess the potential for As accumulation in soil, we investigated the lateral and vertical distribution of As in rice field soils near Sreenagar (Munshiganj, Bangladesh) and its changes over a 1 year cycle of irrigation and monsoon flooding. At the study site, 18 paddy fields are irrigated with water from a shallow tube well containing 397 +/- 7 microg L(-1) As. The analysis of soil samples collected before irrigation in December 2004 showed that soil As concentrations in paddy fields did not depend on the length of the irrigation channel between well and field inlet. Within individual fields, however, soil As contents decreased with increasing distance to the water inlet, leading to highly variable topsoil As contents (11-35 mg kg(-1), 0-10 cm). Soil As contents after irrigation (May 2005) showed that most As input occurred close to the water inlet and that most As was retained in the top few centimeters of soil. After monsoon flooding (December 2005), topsoil As contents were again close to levels measured before irrigation. Thus, As input during irrigation was at least partly counteracted by As mobilization during monsoon flooding. However, the persisting lateral As distribution suggests net arsenic accumulation over the past 15 years. More pronounced As accumulation may occur in regions with several rice crops per year, less intense monsoon flooding, or different irrigation schemes. The high lateral and vertical heterogeneity of soil As contents must be taken into account in future studies related to As accumulation in paddy soils and potential As transfer into rice.
17937479	The relationships among potassium (K), calcium (Ca), sodium (Na), magnesium (Mg), iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), and manganese (Mn) contents in milled rice (Oryza stavia L.) of 274 genotypes and the relationships between these mineral element contents and other rice quality traits including 3 cooking quality traits, 17 amino acid contents, and protein content were investigated. The results showed that there were significant correlations among most of mineral element contents. Mg, Fe, and Mn contents were significantly correlated with most of the other mineral element contents, while Cu content had significantly negative associations with the K and Mg contents of rice. The relationships between mineral element contents and cooking quality traits showed that gel consistency (GC) was significantly correlated with K, Cu, and Mn contents of rice. Amylose content (AC) was significantly associated with K, Na, Mg, Cu, and Mn contents. The alkali spreading value (ASV) had closely positive relationships with Ca, Mg, and Mn contents. In addition, 8 mineral element contents had obvious correlations with different amino acid contents. Mg, Ca, and Zn contents were significantly correlated with most of the 17 amino acid contents, but Na content did not correlate with amino acid contents except aspartic acid of rice. Furthermore, significant associations were found between protein content and Na, Mg, Zn, Cu, or Mn content. Six principal components were extracted to explain 84.50% of the total variances and contained the information provided by the original 29 variables according to the principal component analysis.
17938177	The genetic system of chloroplasts, including the machinery for transcription, translation, and DNA replication, exhibits substantial similarity to that of eubacteria. Chloroplasts are also thought to possess a system for generating guanosine 5'-triphosphate ((p)ppGpp), which triggers the stringent response in eubacteria, with genes encoding chloroplastic (p)ppGpp synthetase having been identified. We now describe the identification and characterization of genes (OsCRSH1, OsCRSH2, and OsCRSH3) for a novel type of (p)ppGpp synthetase in rice. The proteins encoded by these genes contain a putative chloroplast transit peptide at the NH(2) terminus, a central RelA-SpoT-like domain, and two EF-hand motifs at the COOH terminus. The recombinant OsCRSH1 protein was imported into chloroplasts in vitro, and genetic complementation analysis revealed that expression of OsCRSH1 suppressed the phenotype of an Escherichia coli mutant deficient in the RelA and SpoT enzymes. Biochemical analysis showed that the OsCRSH proteins possess (p)ppGpp synthetase activity that is dependent both on Ca(2+) and on the EF-hand motifs. A data base search identified a CRSH homolog in the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating that such genes are conserved among both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous land plants. CRSH proteins thus likely function as Ca(2+)-activated (p)ppGpp synthetases in plant chloroplasts, implicating both Ca(2+) and (p)ppGpp signaling in regulation of the genetic system of these organelles.
17940210	Examination of the genomic sequence of the telomere region makes it possible to understand the evolution of the structure of chromosomal ends. We compared the genomic sequences of 14 chromosomal ends of rice, Oryza sativa, L., on the basis of the variation in TTTAGGG repeats. In the proximal telomere repeats, nucleotide substitution occurred more frequently than in the more distal repeats. The most significant diversity was observed at the 1st, 2nd, or 3rd position of TTTAGGG, suggesting that T has been a target of mutation preferentially. Copies of ATTAGGG, CTTAGGG, GTTAGGG, TTCAGGG, TTGAGGG, or TATAGGG were arrayed in tandem, or the same subtypes were located close to each other. The substituted variants were accumulated in chromosomes 2L, 3L, 7L, and 10S but not in the ends of the other chromosomes. In contrast, deletion variants, almost all of which were TTTAGGG to TTAGGG, were dispersed over approximately 4.9% of the sequenced telomere repeats. In summary, the rice proximal telomeric arrays were composed of blocks of at least 6 types of substituted variants and the canonical sequence in a chromosome-specific manner. These results suggest that the variants might arise from the rapid expansion of a single mutation rather than from the gradual accumulation of random mutations.
17940256	Methane (CH4) oxidation is the only known biological sink process for mitigating atmospheric and terrestrial emissions of CH4, a major greenhouse gas. Methane oxidation in an alluvial soil planted to rice (Oryza sativa L.) under long-term application of organic (compost with a C/N ratio of 21.71), and mineral fertilizers was measured in a field-cum-laboratory incubation study. Oxidation rates were quantified in terms of decrease in the concentration of CH4 in the headspace of incubation vessels and expressed as half-life (t(1)2) values. Methane oxidation rates significantly differed among the treatments and growth stages of the rice crop. Methane oxidation rates were high at the maximum tillering and maturity stages, whereas they were low at grain-filling stage. Methane oxidation was low (t(1)2) = 15.76 d) when provided with low concentration of CH4. On the contrary, high concentration of CH4 resulted in faster oxidation (t(1)2) = 6.67 d), suggesting the predominance of "low affinity oxidation" in rice fields. Methane oxidation was stimulated following the application of mineral fertilizers or compost implicating nutrient limitation as one of the factors affecting the process. Combined application of compost and mineral fertilizer, however, inhibited CH4 oxidation probably due to N immobilization by the added compost. The positive effect of mineral fertilizer on CH4 oxidation rate was evident only at high CH4 concentration (t(1)2 = 4.80 d), while at low CH4 concentration their was considerable suppression (t(1) = 17.60 d). Further research may reveal that long-term application of fertilizers, organic or inorganic, may not inhibit CH4 oxidation.
17940543	To compare dietary habits between Finnish twin migrants to Sweden and their co-twins always living in Finland, and to analyse how migration influenced food consumption patterns in the migrants. Same-sexed twin pairs born in Finland below 75 years of age, with at least one twin migrating to Sweden (n=1083 pairs). Dietary habits were assessed by a food frequency questionnaire included in a comprehensive mailed questionnaire (response rate 71%). For 76 male twin pairs, information was also collected by a dietary history interview inquiring the habitual diet during the previous year. Migrant twins in Sweden had a lower intake of typical Finnish foods like dark bread and berries, and an increased consumption of fresh fruit compared with co-twins living in Finland. The migrants consumed less potatoes and more rice and pasta. Sweet pastries were consumed less often by the migrants and they also tended to more often cut out visible fat of meat and on the other hand add salt to dishes. Among men the migrants had a lower alcohol intake than their co-twins living in Finland. Migration from Finland to Sweden is associated with differences in the food pattern that reflect population differences in eating habits between the two countries. The differences include a reduced consumption of typical Finnish foods like dark bread and berries and are of bidirectional nature from the point of view of cardiovascular health.
17940804	Rhizopus microsporus var. rhizopodiformis produced high levels of alpha-amylase and glucoamylase under solid state fermentation, with several agricultural residues, such as wheat bran, cassava flour, sugar cane bagasse, rice straw, corncob and crushed corncob as carbon sources. These materials were humidified with distilled water, tap water, or saline solutions--Segato Rizzatti (SR), Khanna or Vogel. The best substrate for amylase production was wheat bran with SR saline solution (1:2 v/v). Amylolytic activity was still improved (14.3%) with a mixture of wheat bran, corncob, starch and SR saline solution (1:1:0.3:4.6 w/w/w/v). The optimized culture conditions were initial pH 5, at 45 degrees C during 6 days and relative humidity around 76%. The crude extract exhibited temperature and pH optima around 65 degrees C and 4-5, respectively. Amylase activity was fully stable for 1 h at temperatures up to 75 degrees C, and at pH values between 2.5 and 7.5.
17941117	The aim of this work was to assay seasoning D- or L-aromatic amino acids (AAs) in rice-brewed suspensions, Laozao in Chinese, by chiral ligand-exchange CE with UV detection and Zn(II) complex as a chiral selecting system. Resolution and peak retention were found to be parallel to the basicity of the AA chiral ligands, and basic L-Arg was known to work the best at pH 8.20 compared with L-Lys and other AA ligands. Baseline separation of DL-aromatic AAs and partially separation of some FMOC-labeled nonaromatic AAs have been achieved using a running buffer of 5 mM ammonium acetate, 100 mM boric acid, 3 mM ZnSO(4), and 6 mM L-Arg at pH 8.20. The aromatic amino acids in four brands of Laozao were measured in a range of 0.25-20 microg/mL for Typ, 1.00-120 microg/mL for Phe, and 2.50-200 microg/mL for Tyr, with linear regression coefficient all over 0.999. The LOD (S/N=3) was 0.15 microg/mL for Typ, 0.50 microg/mL for Phe, and 1.25 microg/mL for Tyr. The recovery of the method determined by spiking with the supernates of Laozao as background was 94.0-112.9%. The RSDs of migration time and peak area measured from six injections of tyrosine were 0.2 and 2.7%, respectively, for run-to-run, and 1.6 and 3.2%, respectively for day-to-day. Interestingly, there were only L-Trp, D-Tyr, and L-Tyr found in the assayed four brands of Laozao. They may serve as an index to recognize the brand of Laozao.
17941993	Alternative splicing (AS) contributes significantly to protein diversity, by selectively using different combinations of exons of the same gene under certain circumstances. One particular type of AS is the use of alternative first exons (AFEs), which can have consequences far beyond the fine-tuning of protein functions. For example, AFEs may change the N-termini of proteins and thereby direct them to different cellular compartments. When alternative first exons are distant, they are usually associated with alternative promoters, thereby conferring an extra level of gene expression regulation. However, only few studies have examined the patterns of AFEs, and these analyses were mainly focused on mammalian genomes. Recent studies have shown that AFEs exist in the rice genome, and are regulated in a tissue-specific manner. Our current understanding of AFEs in plants is still limited, including important issues such as their regulation, contribution to protein diversity, and evolutionary conservation. We systematically identified 1,378 and 645 AFE-containing clusters in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively. From our data sets, we identified two types of AFEs according to their genomic organisation. In genes with type I AFEs, the first exons are mutually exclusive, while most of the downstream exons are shared among alternative transcripts. Conversely, in genes with type II AFEs, the first exon of one gene structure is an internal exon of an alternative gene structure. The functionality analysis indicated about half and approximately 19% of the AFEs in Arabidopsis and rice could alter N-terminal protein sequences, and approximately 5% of the functional alteration in type II AFEs involved protein domain addition/deletion in both genomes. Expression analysis indicated that 20-66% of rice AFE clusters were tissue- and/or development- specifically transcribed, which is consistent with previous observations; however, a much smaller percentage of Arabidopsis AFEs was regulated in this manner, which suggests different regulation mechanisms of AFEs between rice and Arabidopsis. Statistical analysis of some features of AFE clusters, such as splice-site strength and secondary structure formation further revealed differences between these two species. Orthologous search of AFE-containing gene pairs detected only 19 gene pairs conserved between rice and Arabidopsis, accounting only for a few percent of AFE-containing clusters. Our analysis of AFE-containing genes in rice and Arabidopsis indicates that AFEs have multiple functions, from regulating gene expression to generating protein diversity. Comparisons of AFE clusters revealed different features in the two plant species, which indicates that AFEs may have evolved independently after the separation of rice (a model monocot) and Arabidopsis (a model dicot).
17942219	In this work, the potential feasibility of rice straw-derived char (RSC) for removal of C.I. Basic Green 4 (malachite green (MG)), a cationic dye from aqueous solution was investigated. The isotherm parameters were estimated by non-linear regression analysis. The equilibrium process was described well by the Langmuir isotherm model. The maximum RSC sorption capacity was found to be 148.74 mg/L at 30 degrees C. The kinetics of MG sorption on RSC followed the Lagergren's pseudo-first-order model and the overall rate of dye uptake was found to be controlled by external mass transfer at the beginning of adsorption, while intraparticle diffusion controlled the overall rate of adsorption at a later stage. The results indicated that RSC was an attractive adsorbent for removing basic dye from aqueous solutions.
17942414	The ChromDB website (http://www.chromdb.org) displays chromatin-associated proteins, including RNAi-associated proteins, for a broad range of organisms. Our primary focus is to display sets of highly curated plant genes predicted to encode proteins associated with chromatin remodeling. Our intent is to make this intensively curated sequence information available to the research and teaching communities in support of comparative analyses toward understanding the chromatin proteome in plants, especially in important crop species such as corn and rice. Model animal and fungal proteins are included in the database to facilitate a complete, comparative analysis of the chromatin proteome and to make the database applicable to all chromatin researchers and educators. Chromatin biology and chromatin remodeling are complex processes involving a multitude of proteins that regulate the dynamic changes in chromatin structure which either repress or activate transcription. We strive to organize ChromDB data in a straightforward and comparative manner to help users understand the complement of proteins involved in packaging DNA into chromatin.
17944815	Two different rice cultivars, Yangdao 6 [Indica rice cultivar with high nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE)] and Nongken 57 (Japonica rice cultivar with low NUE) were used to study the relationship between NUE and nitrification activity in the rice seedling rhizosphere soil using a rhizobox with three compartments, and a soil-slicing method. The roots of both rice cultivars developed aerenchyma tissue [expressed as percentage porosity of root (POR)], but Yangdao 6 showed better development than Nongken 57. This root morphology change results in more radial oxygen loss (ROL) into the rhizosphere. Leaf glutamine synthetase activity (GSA) and nitrate (NO3-) reductase activity (NRA) of Yangdao 6 were significantly higher than those of Nongken 57, while there was no significant difference in root NRA between the cultivars. The nitrification activities were maximal in rhizosphere soil, followed by those in the bulk soil and the root surface for both cultivars. The rhizosphere nitrification activity, NO3- concentration and abundance of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) associated with Yangdao 6 were always higher than those of Nongken 57. Therefore, we conclude that the greater N uptake by Yangdao 6 when compared to Nongken 57 can be mainly attributed to the bigger capacity for nitrification in Yangdao 6.
17945171	The multigene families undergo birth-and-death evolution and thus contribute to biological innovations. The APETALA2-like genes belong to the euAP2 group of the AP2 gene family. These genes are characterized by several distinct motifs and exist in ferns, gymnosperms, and angiosperms. The phylogenetic analysis indicated that these genes have undergone the birth-and-death evolution. The five APETALA2-like genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.) display redundant but distinct expression patterns as demonstrated by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization. The potential functions of these genes were discussed on the basis of phylogenetic and expression pattern.
17945403	The average concentrations of SigmaLABs (sum of C10-C13-LABs) in runoff samples collected from the eight major riverine outlets of the Pearl River Delta (PRD) of China ranged from 1.4 to 6124 ng/L in the dissolved phase and from 0.01 to 11.4 microg/g dry weight in the particulate phase during March 2005-February 2006. The annual riverine flux of SigmaLABs from the PRD to the coastal ocean was estimated at approximately 14 tons/yr. The inventories of SigmaLABs in agricultural lands of Guangdong Province ranged from 313 to 1825 kg/yr. The early and late rice fields were the major sink of LABs, accounting for approximately 68% of total LABs inventory in agricultural lands. The social-economically estimated annual discharge of LABs from household detergents in the PRD was approximately 696 tons/yr, more than an order of magnitude higher than that estimated from field measurements (about 14 tons/yr), which was attributed to several factors.
17945674	Cadmium (Cd) is a general environmental pollutant of increasing global concern. In 2005 the joint FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission proposed new international food legislation for low-level Cd contaminants. In this study we demonstrate the use of novel monoclonal antibody (MAb) to Cd-EDTA in an immunochromatography (IC) format for the quick testing for trace Cd. This IC device could detect 0.3 microg kg(-1) (0-3 ppb) Cd. Contaminated Zn, Mn, Mg, and Cu, which would interfere the measurement of Cd by cross reaction to the MAb, could be removed by using a column that could separate trace Cd from other heavy metals in the extract of brown rice.
17946292	The phonocardiographic monitoring of fetal heart activity due to its passive nature enables extremely long measuring times providing thus the possibility of fetal breathing recovery. The long monitoring time is required because of the temporary appearing of breathing movement. However, the long measurement time and consequently the large amount of data to be transmitted to the hospital's computer centre may be costly on mobile phone network. To keep monitoring costs low an appropriate data compression should be applied assuring the transmission of all important features of the detected acoustic signal. The present work summarizes the results of the extension of the novel telemedicine system with measurement of breathing periodicity and the achieved compression level of acquisited data. The Golomb-Rice compression is applied for lossless transmission of the segmented beat cycles considering the importance of the given segments in order to obtain the most accurate transfer of beat-to-beat time and all irregular heart sounds.
17947329	ppdb (http://www.ppdb.gene.nagoya-u.ac.jp) is a plant promoter database that provides promoter annotation of Arabidopsis and rice. The database contains information on promoter structures, transcription start sites (TSSs) that have been identified from full-length cDNA clones and also a vast amount of TSS tag data. In ppdb, the promoter structures are determined by sets of promoter elements identified by a position-sensitive extraction method called local distribution of short sequences (LDSS). By using this database, the core promoter structure, the presence of regulatory elements and the distribution of TSS clusters can be identified. Although no differentiation of promoter architecture among plant species has been reported, there is some divergence of utilized sequences for promoter elements. Therefore, ppdb is based on species-specific sets of promoter elements, rather than on general motifs for multiple species. Each regulatory sequence is hyperlinked to literary information, a PLACE entry served by a plant cis-element database, and a list of promoters containing the regulatory sequence.
17947330	To organize data resulting from the phenotypic characterization of a library of 30,000 T-DNA enhancer trap (ET) insertion lines of rice (Oryza sativa L cv. Nipponbare), we developed the Oryza Tag Line (OTL) database (http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/OryzaTagLine/). OTL structure facilitates forward genetic search for specific phenotypes, putatively resulting from gene disruption, and/or for GUSA or GFP reporter gene expression patterns, reflecting ET-mediated endogenous gene detection. In the latest version, OTL gathers the detailed morpho-physiological alterations observed during field evaluation and specific screens in a first set of 13,928 lines. Detection of GUS or GFP activity in specific organ/tissues in a subset of the library is also provided. Search in OTL can be achieved through trait ontology category, organ and/or developmental stage, keywords, expression of reporter gene in specific organ/tissue as well as line identification number. OTL now contains the description of 9721 mutant phenotypic traits observed in 2636 lines and 1234 GUS or GFP expression patterns. Each insertion line is documented through a generic passport data including production records, seed stocks and FST information. 8004 and 6101 of the 13,928 lines are characterized by at least one T-DNA and one Tos17 FST, respectively that OTL links to the rice genome browser OryGenesDB.
17947408	The resistance (R) gene Pi37, present in the rice cultivar St. No. 1, was isolated by an in silico map-based cloning procedure. The equivalent genetic region in Nipponbare contains four nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) type loci. These four candidates for Pi37 (Pi37-1, -2, -3, and -4) were amplified separately from St. No. 1 via long-range PCR, and cloned into a binary vector. Each construct was individually transformed into the highly blast susceptible cultivar Q1063. The subsequent complementation analysis revealed Pi37-3 to be the functional gene, while -1, -2, and -4 are probably pseudogenes. Pi37 encodes a 1290 peptide NBS-LRR product, and the presence of substitutions at two sites in the NBS region (V239A and I247M) is associated with the resistance phenotype. Semiquantitative expression analysis showed that in St. No. 1, Pi37 was constitutively expressed and only slightly induced by blast infection. Transient expression experiments indicated that the Pi37 product is restricted to the cytoplasm. Pi37-3 is thought to have evolved recently from -2, which in turn was derived from an ancestral -1 sequence. Pi37-4 is likely the most recently evolved member of the cluster and probably represents a duplication of -3. The four Pi37 paralogs are more closely related to maize rp1 than to any of the currently isolated rice blast R genes Pita, Pib, Pi9, Pi2, Piz-t, and Pi36.
17947413	Despite its status as one of the world's major crops, linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns have not been systematically characterized across the genome of Asian rice (Oryza sativa). Such information is critical to fully exploit the genome sequence for mapping complex traits using association techniques. Here we characterize LD in five 500-kb regions of the rice genome in three major cultivated rice varieties (indica, tropical japonica, and temperate japonica) and in the wild ancestor of Asian rice, Oryza rufipogon. Using unlinked SNPs to determine the amount of background linkage disequilibrium in each population, we find that the extent of LD is greatest in temperate japonica (probably >500 kb), followed by tropical japonica (approximately 150 kb) and indica (approximately 75 kb). LD extends over a shorter distance in O. rufipogon (<40 kb) than in any of the O. sativa groups assayed here. The differences in the extent of LD among these groups are consistent with differences in outcrossing and recombination rate estimates. As well as heterogeneity between groups, our results suggest variation in LD patterns among genomic regions. We demonstrate the feasibility of genomewide association mapping in cultivated Asian rice using a modest number of SNPs.
17947431	Functional mapping has emerged as a powerful tool for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTL) that control developmental patterns of complex dynamic traits. Original functional mapping has been constructed within the context of simple interval mapping, without consideration of separate multiple linked QTL for a dynamic trait. In this article, we present a statistical framework for mapping QTL that affect dynamic traits by capitalizing on the strengths of functional mapping and composite interval mapping. Within this so-called composite functional-mapping framework, functional mapping models the time-dependent genetic effects of a QTL tested within a marker interval using a biologically meaningful parametric function, whereas composite interval mapping models the time-dependent genetic effects of the markers outside the test interval to control the genome background using a flexible nonparametric approach based on Legendre polynomials. Such a semiparametric framework was formulated by a maximum-likelihood model and implemented with the EM algorithm, allowing for the estimation and the test of the mathematical parameters that define the QTL effects and the regression coefficients of the Legendre polynomials that describe the marker effects. Simulation studies were performed to investigate the statistical behavior of composite functional mapping and compare its advantage in separating multiple linked QTL as compared to functional mapping. We used the new mapping approach to analyze a genetic mapping example in rice, leading to the identification of multiple QTL, some of which are linked on the same chromosome, that control the developmental trajectory of leaf age.
17949936	Wild species of crop plants are increasingly being used to improve various agronomic traits including yield in cultivars. Dense molecular maps have enabled mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for complex traits such as yield. QTLs for increased yield have been identified from wild relatives of several crop plants. Advanced backcross QTL analysis has been used to identify naturally occurring favorable QTL alleles for yield and minimize the effect of unwanted alleles from wild species. Yield QTLs from wild species are distributed on almost all chromosomes but more often in some regions. Many QTLs for yield and related traits derived from different wild accessions or species map to identical chromosomal regions. QTLs for highly correlated yield associated traits are also often co-located implying linkage or pleiotropic effects. Many QTLs have been detected in more than one environment and in more than one genetic background. The overall direction of effect of some QTLs however, may vary with genetic context. Thus, there is evidence of stable and consistent major effect yield-enhancing QTLs derived from wild species in several crops. Such QTLs are good targets for use in marker assisted selection though their context-dependency is a major constraint. Literature on yield QTLs mapped from wild species is summarized with special reference to rice and tomato.
17949974	Palm stearin (PS) and rice bran oil (RBO) blends of varying proportions were subjected to enzymatic interesterification (EIE) using a 1,3 specific immobilized lipase. The interesterified blends were evaluated for their physicochemical characteristics and bioactive phytochemical contents using differential scanning calorimeter (DSC), X-ray diffraction (XRD), gas chromatography (GC) and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The blends of PS and RBO in different proportions (40:60, 50:50, 60:40 and 70:30) had saturated fatty acid content and unsaturated fatty acid content in the range of 37.6-52.0% and 48.0-62.4%, respectively. The blends 40:60, 50:50 and 60:40 showed a considerable reduction in their highest melt peak temperature (TP) and solid fat content (SFC) on EIE. The interesterified blends retained bioactive phytochemicals like tocols (839-1172 ppm), sterols (4318-9647 ppm), oryzanols (3000-6800ppm) and carotene (121-180 ppm). XRD studies demonstrated that the interesterified blends contained beta and beta' polymorphic forms.
17950386	Here, we report the first proteomic analysis of rice defense response induced by probenazole (PBZ), an agricultural chemical that has been widely used to protect rice plants from rice blast and the bacterial blight pathogen. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) was utilized to identify a total of 40 protein spots including 9 protein spots that are up-regulated by PBZ and 31 abundant protein spots. A total of 11 unique proteins from these 9 spots were identified by LC-MS/MS, and the majority of them were classified and/or possessed orthologs in defense-related functions. Five protein spots with only one protein species identified in each spot appear to be PBZ-regulated proteins. They are a putative glutathione S-transferase GSTU17, a putative phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL, XP_466843), a putative caffeic acid 3-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a putative NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, and a putative glucose-1-phosphate adenyltransferase. However, the other six protein species identified from the remaining four protein spots could not be conclusively described as PBZ-regulated proteins due to either the co-migration of two protein species in one spot or the presence of one protein species in two spots. Through real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), it was determined that PAL (XP_466843) is likely regulated at the protein level, whereas GSTU17 and COMT were regulated at the mRNA level after PBZ application. Interestingly, the mRNA transcripts of two PAL paralogs were found to be up-regulated by PBZ. We propose that PAL, COMT, and GSTU17 are likely to confer PBZ-induced disease resistance via such functions as biosynthesis and transport of flavonoid-type phytoalexin and/or lignin biogenesis.
17950698	The evolutionary origin of some nuclear encoded proteins that translocate proteins across the chloroplast envelope remains unknown. Therefore, sequences of GTPase proteins constituting the Arabidopsis thaliana translocon at the outer membrane of chloroplast (atToc) complexes were analyzed by means of HCA. In particular, atToc159 and related proteins (atToc132, atToc120, and atToc90) do not have proven homologues of prokaryotic or eukaryotic ancestry. We established that the three domains commonly referred to as A, G, and M originate from the GTPase G domain, tandemly repeated, and probably evolving toward an unstructured conformation in the case of the A domain. It resulted from this study a putative common ancestor for these proteins and a new domain definition, in particular the splitting of A into three domains (A1, A2, and A3), has been proposed. The family of Toc159, previously containing A. thaliana and Pisum sativum, has been extended to Medicago truncatula and Populus trichocarpa and it has been revised for Oryza sativa. They have also been compared to GTPase subunits involved in the cpSRP system. A distant homology has been revealed among Toc and cpSRP GTP-hydrolyzing proteins of A. thaliana, and repetitions of a GTPase domain were also found in cpSRP protein receptors, by means of HCA analysis.
17951000	A variety of low cost activated carbons were developed from agricultural waste materials viz., coconut shell, coconut shell fibers and rice husk. The low cost activated carbons were fully characterized and utilized for the remediation of various pollutants viz., chemical oxygen demand (COD), heavy metals, anions, etc., from industrial wastewater. Sorption studies were carried out at different temperatures and particle sizes to study the effect of temperatures and surface areas. The removal of chloride and fluoride increased with rise in temperature while COD and metal ions removal decreased with increase in temperature, thereby, indicating the processes to be endothermic and exothermic, respectively. The kinetics of COD adsorption was also carried out at different temperatures to establish the sorption mechanism and to determine various kinetic parameters. The COD removal was 47-72% by coconut shell fiber carbon (ATFAC), 50-74% by coconut shell carbon (ATSAC) and 45-73% by rice husk carbon (ATRHC). Furthermore, COD removal kinetics by rice husk carbon, coconut shell carbon and coconut fiber carbon at different temperatures was approximately represented by a first order rate law. Results of this fundamental study demonstrate the effectiveness and feasibility of low cost activated carbons. The parameters obtained in this study can be fully utilized to establish fixed bed reactors on large scale to treat the contaminated water.
17951455	Higher plants acquire iron (Fe) from the rhizosphere through two strategies. Strategy II, employed by graminaceous plants, involves secretion of phytosiderophores (e.g. deoxymugineic acid in rice [Oryza sativa]) by roots to solubilize Fe(III) in soil. In addition to taking up Fe in the form of Fe(III)-phytosiderophore, rice also possesses the strategy I-like system that may absorb Fe(II) directly. Through mutant screening, we isolated a rice mutant that could not grow with Fe(III)-citrate as the sole Fe source, but was able to grow when Fe(II)-EDTA was supplied. Surprisingly, the mutant accumulated more Fe and other divalent metals in roots and shoots than the wild type when both were supplied with EDTA-Fe(II) or grown under water-logged field conditions. Furthermore, the mutant had a significantly higher concentration of Fe in both unpolished and polished grains than the wild type. Using the map-based cloning method, we identified a point mutation in a gene encoding nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT1), which was responsible for the mutant phenotype. Because of the loss of function of NAAT1, the mutant failed to produce deoxymugineic acid and could not absorb Fe(III) efficiently. In contrast, nicotianamine, the substrate for NAAT1, accumulated markedly in roots and shoots of the mutant. Microarray analysis showed that the expression of a number of the genes involved in Fe(II) acquisition was greatly stimulated in the naat1 mutant. Our results demonstrate that disruption of deoxymugineic acid biosynthesis can stimulate Fe(II) acquisition and increase iron accumulation in rice.
17951462	Plants contain more genes encoding core cell cycle regulators than other organisms but it is unclear whether these represent distinct functions. D-type cyclins (CYCD) play key roles in the G1-to-S-phase transition, and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains 10 CYCD genes in seven defined subgroups, six of which are conserved in rice (Oryza sativa). Here, we identify 22 CYCD genes in the poplar (Populus trichocarpa) genome and confirm that these six CYCD subgroups are conserved across higher plants, suggesting subgroup-specific functions. Different subgroups show gene number increases, with CYCD3 having three members in Arabidopsis, six in poplar, and a single representative in rice. All three species contain a single CYCD7 gene. Despite low overall sequence homology, we find remarkable conservation of intron/exon boundaries, because in most CYCD genes of plants and mammals, the first exon ends in the conserved cyclin signature. Only CYCD3 genes contain the complete cyclin box in a single exon, and this structure is conserved across angiosperms, again suggesting an early origin for the subgroup. The single CYCD gene of moss has a gene structure closely related to those of higher plants, sharing an identical exon/intron structure with several higher plant subgroups. However, green algae have CYCD genes structurally unrelated to higher plants. Conservation is also observed in the location of potential cyclin-dependent kinase phosphorylation sites within CYCD proteins. Subgroup structure is supported by conserved regulatory elements, particularly in the eudicot species, including conserved E2F regulatory sites within CYCD3 promoters. Global expression correlation analysis further supports distinct expression patterns for CYCD subgroups.
17951464	Using the rice (Oryza sativa) sp. japonica genome annotation, along with genomic sequence and clustered transcript assemblies from 184 species in the plant kingdom, we have identified a set of 861 rice genes that are evolutionarily conserved among six diverse species within the Poaceae yet lack significant sequence similarity with plant species outside the Poaceae. This set of evolutionarily conserved and lineage-specific rice genes is termed conserved Poaceae-specific genes (CPSGs) to reflect the presence of significant sequence similarity across three separate Poaceae subfamilies. The vast majority of rice CPSGs (86.6%) encode proteins with no putative function or functionally characterized protein domain. For the remaining CPSGs, 8.8% encode an F-box domain-containing protein and 4.5% encode a protein with a putative function. On average, the CPSGs have fewer exons, shorter total gene length, and elevated GC content when compared with genes annotated as either transposable elements (TEs) or those genes having significant sequence similarity in a species outside the Poaceae. Multiple sequence alignments of the CPSGs with sequences from other Poaceae species show conservation across a putative domain, a novel domain, or the entire coding length of the protein. At the genome level, syntenic alignments between sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and 103 of the 861 rice CPSGs (12.0%) could be made, demonstrating an additional level of conservation for this set of genes within the Poaceae. The extensive sequence similarity in evolutionarily distinct species within the Poaceae family and an additional screen for TE-related structural characteristics and sequence discounts these CPSGs as being misannotated TEs. Collectively, these data confirm that we have identified a specific set of genes that are highly conserved within, as well as specific to, the Poaceae.
17951465	Although flowering regulatory mechanisms have been extensively studied in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), those in other species have not been well elucidated. Here, we investigated the role of OsMADS51, a type I MADS-box gene in the short-day (SD) promotion pathway in rice (Oryza sativa). In SDs OsMADS51 null mutants flowered 2 weeks later than normal, whereas in long days loss of OsMADS51 had little effect on flowering. Transcript levels of three flowering regulators-Ehd1, OsMADS14, and Hd3a-were decreased in these mutants, whereas those of OsGI and Hd1 were unchanged. Ectopic expression of OsMADS51 caused flowering to occur about 7 d earlier only in SDs. In ectopic expression lines, transcript levels of Ehd1, OsMADS14, and Hd3a were increased, but those of OsGI and Hd1 remained the same. These results indicate that OsMADS51 is a flowering promoter, particularly in SDs, and that this gene functions upstream of Ehd1, OsMADS14, and Hd3a. To further investigate the relationship with other flowering promoters, we generated transgenic plants in which expression of Ehd1 or OsGI was suppressed. In Ehd1 RNA interference plants, OsMADS51 expression was not affected, supporting our conclusion that the MADS-box gene functions upstream of Ehd1. However, in OsGI antisense plants, the OsMADS51 transcript level was reduced. In addition, the circadian expression pattern for this MADS-box gene was similar to that for OsGI. These results demonstrate that OsMADS51 functions downstream of OsGI. In summary, OsMADS51 is a novel flowering promoter that transmits a SD promotion signal from OsGI to Ehd1.
17952471	Mutant populations are indispensable genetic resources for functional genomics in all organisms. However, suitable rice mutant populations, induced either by chemicals or irradiation still have been rarely developed to date. To produce mutant pools and to launch a search system for rice gene mutations, we developed mutant populations of Oryza sativa japonica cv. Taichung 65, by treating single zygotic cells with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU). Mutagenesis in single zygotes can create mutations at a high frequency and rarely forms chimeric plants. A modified TILLING system using non-labeled primers and fast capillary gel electrophoresis was applied for high-throughput detection of single nucleotide substitution mutations. The mutation rate of an M(2) mutant population was calculated as 7.4 x 10(-6) per nucleotide representing one mutation in every 135 kb genome sequence. One can expect 7.4 single nucleotide substitution mutations in every 1 kb of gene region when using 1,000 M(2) mutant lines. The mutations were very evenly distributed over the regions examined. These results indicate that our rice mutant population generated by MNU-mutagenesis could be a promising resource for identifying mutations in any gene of rice. The modified TILLING method also proved very efficient and convenient in screening the mutant population.
17952622	RNA interference (RNAi) refers to a common mechanism of RNA-based post-transcriptional gene silencing in eukaryotic cells. In model plant species such as Arabidopsis and rice, RNAi has been routinely used to characterize gene function and to engineer novel phenotypes. In polyploid species, this approach is in its early stages, but has great potential since multiple homoeologous copies can be simultaneously silenced with a single RNAi construct. In this article, we discuss the utilization of RNAi in wheat functional gene analysis and its effect on transcript regulation of homoeologous genes. We also review recent examples of RNAi modification of important agronomic and quality traits in wheat and discuss future directions for this technology.
17952623	Identification of an appropriate selection agent and its corresponding selectable marker gene is one of the first steps in establishing a transformation protocol for a given plant species. As the promoter controls expression level of the genes, the promoter driving the selectable marker gene can affect transformation. However, investigations into the direct effect of promoters driving selectable marker on transformation are lacking in the literature though many reports of relative strengths of promoters driving reporter genes like GUS or CAT or GFP are available. In the present study, we have compared rice Actin1 and CaMV.35S (commonly used promoters in monocotyledonous plant transformation) promoters driving nptII for their effectiveness in paromomycin selection of transgenic corn events. To enable statistically meaningful analysis of the results, a large sample size of nearly 5,000 immature embryos (explants) was employed producing approximately 1,250 independent events from each of the two constructs in four independent experiments. The rate of appearance of resistant calli and percentage of resistant calli recovered was higher with P-Os.Actin1/nptII/nos3' as compared to P-CaMV.35S/nptII/nos3' in all four experiments. There was no appreciable difference either in the frequency of plant regeneration or in the morphological characteristics of plants recovered from the two constructs. Although the escape rate trended lower with P-Os.Actin1 as compared to P-CaMV.35S, the recovery of low copy events was significantly higher with P-CaMV.35S. The higher transformation frequency with P-Os.Actin1 could be related to the strength of this promoter as compared to P-CaMV.35S in the explants and/or calli. Based on these results, we infer that the promoter driving the selectable marker is an important factor to be considered while establishing a high throughput transformation protocol as it could not only influence the transformation frequency but also the copy number of the transgene in the recovered transgenics.
17952771	In the present study, pressurised liquid extraction and ultrasound probe sonication, for the latter in combination with a mixed enzymatic treatment in case of rice and straw samples, were applied as sample preparation prior to arsenic speciation analysis by high pressure liquid chromatography coupled to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometric detection (HPLC-ICP-MS). A significant number of samples as different as rice, straw, soil, nail and hair, all coming from the heavily arsenic-contaminated Middle and Lower Ganga plain area, could be investigated with validated methods, supported by high speed extraction methods. For rice and paddy samples, inorganic arsenic counted up to 70-98% of the total arsenic content, being the major species As (III). The levels of arsenic obtained from straw and soil samples are significantly higher than the background levels, being the major species As (V), thus increasing human exposure to arsenic via the soil-plant-animal-human pathway. Concentrations found in hair and nails were significantly higher than their background levels: 39- and 20-fold for hair and nails, respectively. These samples contained mainly inorganic arsenic in its tri- and pentavalent forms. Results indicate that, under the local frame conditions, arsenic mainly enters into the food chain via its more problematic inorganic forms. Arsenic speciation analysis proves to be a powerful tool for a complete analytical assessment in epidemiological studies covering the endemic areas.
17952775	Although the accumulation of arsenic (As) in human blood is linked with some diseases and with occupational exposure, there are few reports on speciation of As in blood. On the basis of our earlier article, elevated level of arsenicals in human urine and blood were found in the ex-exposed population via As-containing drinking water. The aim of the present study was to get an insight on impact of As in foodstuffs on the people living in the As-affected areas. Moreover, speciation of arsenicals in urine, and water-samples found in arsenobetaine (AsB). Since sampling population (n=25) was not taking any seafood, As in foodstuffs was thought to be the prime source for this discrepancy. So, speciation of methanol extract of freeze-dried red blood cells (RBCs) and foodstuffs, and trichloro acetic acid (TCA) treated plasma by high performance liquid chromatography-inductively coupled argon plasma mass spectrometer (HPLC-ICP MS) collected from the study population (n=33) was carried out to support our hypothesis. Results showed that urine contained AsB (1.7%), arsenite (iAs(III)) (14.3), arsenate (iAs(V)) (4.9), monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) (0.64), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)) (13.6), dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III)) (7.7), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)) (65.4). Blood contained 21.3 microg L(- 1) (mean) As and of which 27.3% was in plasma and 72.7% in RBCs. RBCs contained AsB (21.6%) and DMA(V) (78.4) and blood plasma contained AsB (12.4%), iAs(III) (25.9), MMA(V) (30.3), and DMA(V) (31.4). Furthermore, speciation of As in foodstuffs showed that most of them contained AsB (3.54-25.81 microg kg(- 1)) (25.81-312.44 microg kg(- 1)) along with iAs(III) (9.62-194.93), iAs(V) (17.63-78.33), MMA(V) (9.47-73.22) and DMA(V) (13.43-101.15) that supported the presence of AsB and elevated As in urine and blood samples of the present study group. Inorganic As (iAs) predominates in rice (67.17-86.62%) and in spices (40-90.35%), respectively over organic As. So, As in the food chain is a real threat to human health.
17953578	Pathogenicity of Exobasidium vexans, causal agent of blister blight of tea, was studied in 30 commercially cultivated tea varieties by analysing the antigenic patterns of host and pathogen using immunological techniques. Whole plant inoculation of tea varieties with E. vexans showed that T-78 and T-17/1/54 were most susceptible and most resistant respectively. Antigen preparations from tea varieties, pathogen, nonpathogen (Fusarium oxysporum) and of nonhosts (Glycine max, Leucaena leucocephala and Oryza sativa) were compared by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and dot-immunobinding assay using polyclonal antibodies raised against the pathogen, nonpathogen, susceptible and resistant tea varieties. Cross-reactive antigens (CRA) were found among susceptible varieties and E. vexans isolates but not in resistant varieties, nonhosts or nonpathogen. Indirect staining of antibodies using fluorescein isothiocyanate indicated CRA were concentrated mainly around epidermal and mesophyll cells in compatible host (T-78). This was substantiated by ultrastructural studies using gold-labelled antibodies through transmission electron microscopy which showed specific localization in the chloroplasts and host cytoplasm. Pathogenicity of E. vexans to different tea varieties is therefore related to the level of antigenic similarity between host and pathogen. Immunological methods proved to be valuable in screening commercially cultivated tea varieties against E. vexans.
17953790	We aimed to identify dietary patterns in a Danish adult population and assess the reproducibility of the dietary patterns identified. Baseline data of 3,372 women and 3,191 men (30-60 years old) from the population-based survey Inter99 was used. Food intake, assessed by a FFQ, was aggregated into thirty-four separate food groups. Dietary patterns were identified by principal component analysis. Confirmatory factor analysis and Bland Altman plots were used to assess the reproducibility of the dietary patterns identified. The Bland Altman plots were used as an alternative and new method. Two factors were retained for both women and men, which accounted for 15.1-17.4 % of the total variation. The 'Traditional' pattern was characterised by high loadings (> or = 0.40) on pat or high-fat meat for sandwiches, mayonnaise salads, red meat, potatoes, butter and lard, low-fat fish, low-fat meat for sandwiches, and sauces. The 'Modern' pattern was characterised by high loadings on vegetables, fruit, mixed vegetable dishes, vegetable oil and vinegar dressing, poultry, and pasta, rice and wheat kernels. Small differences were observed between patterns identified for women and men. The root mean square error approximation from the confirmatory factor analysis was 0.08. The variation observed from the Bland Altman plots of factors from explorative v. confirmative analyses and explorative analyses from two sub-samples was between 18.8 and 47.7 %. Pearson's correlation was >0.89 (P < 0.0001). The reproducibility was better for women than for men. We conclude that the 'Traditional' and 'Modern' dietary patterns identified were reproducible.
17954972	Harpin proteins from plant pathogenic bacteria can stimulate hypersensitive cell death (HCD), drought tolerance, defence responses against pathogens and insects in plants, as well as enhance plant growth. Recently, we identified nine functional fragments of HpaG;Xooc, a harpin protein from Xanthomonas oryzae pv.oryzicola, the pathogen that causes bacterial leaf streak in rice. Fragments HpaG;1-94'HpaG;10-42, and HpaG;62-138, which contain the HpaG;Xooc regions of the amino acid sequence as indicated by the number spans, exceed the parent protein in promoting growth, pathogen defence and HCD in plants. Here we report improved productivity and biochemical properties of green tea (Camellia sinensis) in response to the fragments tested in comparison with HpaG;Xooc and an inactive protein control. Field tests suggested that the four proteins markedly increased the growth and yield of green tea, and increased the leaf content of tea catechols, a group of compounds that have relevance in the prevention and treatment of human diseases. In particular, HpaG;1-94 was more active than HpaG;Xooc in expediting the growth of juvenile buds and leaves used as green tea material and increased the catechol content of processed teas. When tea shrubs were treated with HpaH;Xooc and HpaG;1-94 compared with a control, green tea yields were over 55% and 39% greater, and leaf catechols were increased by more than 64% and 72%, respectively. The expression of three homologues of the expansin genes, which regulate plant cell growth, and the CsCHS gene encoding a tea chalcone synthase, which critically regulates the biosynthesis of catechols, were induced in germinal leaves of tea plants following treatment with HpaG;1-94 or HpaG;Xooc. Higher levels of gene expression were induced by the application of HpaG;1-94 than HpaG;Xooc. Our results suggest that the harpin protein, especially the functional fragment HpaG;1-94, can be used to effectively increase the yield and improve the biochemical properties of green tea, a drink with medicinal properties.
17955991	According to United Nations (UN) projections, the world's population will grow from 6.1 billion in 2000 to 8 billion in 2025 and 9.4 billion in 2050. Most (93%) of the increase will take place in developing countries. The rapid population growth in developing countries creates major challenges for governments regarding food and nutrition security. According to current World Health Organization estimates, more than 3 billion people worldwide, especially in developing countries, are malnourished in essential nutrients. Malnutrition imposes severe costs on a country's population due to impaired physical and cognitive abilities and reduced ability to work. Little progress has been made in improving malnutrition over the past few decades. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN would like to see more nutrient-rich foods introduced into these countries, because supplements are expensive and difficult to distribute widely. Biofortification of staple crops through modern biotechnology can potentially help in alleviating malnutrition in developing countries. Several genetically modified crops, including rice, potatoes, oilseeds, and cassava, with elevated levels of essential nutrients (such as vitamin A, iron, zinc, protein and essential amino acids, and essential fatty acids); reduced levels of antinutritional factors (such as cyanogens, phytates, and glycoalkaloid); and increased levels of factors that influence bioavailability and utilization of essential nutrients (such as cysteine residues) are advancing through field trial stage and regulatory processes towards commercialization. The ready availability and consumption of the biofortified crops would have a significant impact in reducing malnutrition and the risk of chronic disease in developing countries.
17955992	Micronutrient deficiencies create a vicious circle of malnutrition, poverty, and economic dependency that we must strive to break. Golden Rice offers a sustainable solution to reduce the prevalence of vitamin A deficiency-related diseases and mortality, a problem that affects the health of millions of children in all developing countries. The technology is based on the reconstitution of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway by addition of 2 transgenes. The outcome of this high-tech approach will be provided to end users as nutrient-dense rice varieties that are agronomically identical to their own, locally adapted varieties. This intervention has the potential to reach remote rural populations without access to fortification and supplementation programs. As part of our delivery strategy, we are partnering with government and nongovernment, national and international agricultural institutions to navigate through cumbersome and expensive regulatory regimes that affect the release of genetically modified crops, and to create local demand for the biofortified rice varieties.
17955996	During the last decade, the area of biotech crops modified for agronomic input traits (e.g., herbicide tolerance and insect protection) has increased to 90 million halyear, grown by over 8 million farmers in a total of 17 countries. As adoption of these improved agronomic trait biotech crops has grown, so has interest in biotech crops that have improved nutritional characteristics for use as feed and food. A previous publication by the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) reported on the principles and concepts proposed for the nutritional and safety assessments of foods and feeds nutritionally improved through biotechnology. In this paper, the guidelines and principles recommended in the earlier publication are discussed relative to a specific case study, Lysine maize. Lysine maize is a feed ingredient with enhanced nutritional characteristics for poultry and swine and provides an alternative to the need for addition of supplemental lysine to some diets for these animals. The 2004 Task Force of the ILSI has also applied the concepts from that report to 4 other case studies: sweet potato enriched in provitamin A (2 examples, one using biotechnology and one using conventional breeding); Golden Rice 2; double-embryo maize; and ASP-1 enhanced protein sweet potato.
17955999	Agriculture plays an important role in the national economy of Pakistan, where most of the rapidly increasing population resides in rural areas and depends on agriculture for subsistence. Biotechnology has considerable potential for promoting the efficiency of crop improvement, food production, and poverty reduction. Use of modern biotechnology started in Pakistan since 1985. Currently, there are 29 biotech centers/institutes in the country. However, few centers have appropriate physical facilities and trained manpower to develop genetically modified (GM) crops. Most of the activities have been on rice and cotton, which are among the top 5 crops of Pakistan. Biotic (virus/bacterial/insect) and abiotic (salt) resistant and quality (male sterility) genes have already been incorporated in some crop plants. Despite acquiring capacity to produce transgenic plants, no GM crops, either produced locally or imported, have been released in the country. Pakistan is signatory to the World Trade Organization, Convention on Biological Diversity, and Cartagena protocols. Several legislations under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights have been promulgated in the country. National Biosafety Guidelines have been promulgated in April 2005. The Plant Breeders Rights Act, Amendment in Seed Act-1976, and Geographical Indication for Goods are still passing through discussion, evaluation, and analysis phases. Meanwhile, an illegal GM crop (cotton) has already sneaked into farmer's field. Concerted and coordinated efforts are needed among various ministries for implementation of regulation and capacity building for import/export and local handling of GM crops. Pakistan could easily benefit from the experience of Asian countries, especially China and India, where conditions are similar and the agriculture sector is almost like that of Pakistan. Thus, the exchange of information and experiences is important among these nations.
17956000	Bangladesh is on the verge of adopting genetically modified (GM) crops for commercial cultivation and consumption as feed and food. Most of the laboratories are engaged in tissue culture and molecular characterization on plants, whereas some have started living modified organism research with shortages of trained manpower, infrastructure, and funding. Nutritionally improved Golden Rice, biotech brinjal, and late blight-resistant potato are in contained trials in a greenhouse, and potato ring spot virus-resistant papaya is in the process of approval for a field trial. The government has taken some initiative in support of GM organism research, which include the formation of a Biotechnology Department in all institutes and the formation of the apex body, the National Task Force Committee on Biotechnology of Bangladesh under the chairpersonship of the Prime Minister. Biosafety policy guidelines and related aspects of biotechnology issues have been approved, and the laws are in the process of being promulgated. Being a party to the Cartagena Protocol, proper biosafety measures are regulated by the appropriate authority as stated. Although there are no laws made yet directly for biosafety of GM crops/foods, the relevant laws on agriculture, medicine, food, import, trade, environment, etc. may suffice and explain the situation.
17956854	A sizeable minority of taxa is successful in areas prone to submergence. Many such plants elongate with increased vigour when underwater. This helps to restore contact with the aerial environment by shortening the duration of inundation. Poorly adapted species are usually incapable of this underwater escape. Evidence implicating ethylene as the principal factor initiating fast underwater elongation by leaves or stems is evaluated comprehensively along with its interactions with other hormones and gases. These interactions make up a sequence of events that link the perception of submergence to a prompt acceleration of extension. The review encompasses whole plant physiology, cell biology and molecular genetics. It includes assessments of how submergence threatens plant life and of the extent to which the submergence escape demonstrably improves the likelihood of survival. Experimental testing over many years establishes ethylene-promoted underwater extension as one of the most convincing examples of hormone-mediated stress adaptation by plants. The research has utilized a wide range of species that includes numerous angiosperms, a fern and a liverwort. It has also benefited from detailed physiological and molecular studies of underwater elongation by rice (Oryza sativa) and the marsh dock (Rumex palustris). Despite complexities and interactions, the work reveals that the signal transduction pathway is initiated by the simple expediency of physical entrapment of ethylene within growing cells by a covering of water.
17957470	Although the pathogenic mechanisms of inflammatory bowel diseases are not fully understood, colonic microbiota may affect the induction of colonic inflammation, and some probiotics and prebiotics have been reported to suppress colitis. The inhibitory effects of brown rice fermented by Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA), a fiber-rich food, on the induction of acute colitis by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) were examined. Feeding a 5% and 10% FBRA-containing diet significantly decreased the ulcer and erosion area in the rat colon stained with Alcian blue. In another experiment, 10% FBRA feeding decreased the ulcer index (percentage of the total length of ulcers in the full length of the colon) and colitis score, which were determined by macroscopic observation. It also decreased myeloperoxidase activity in the colonic mucosa. Viable cell numbers of Lactobacillus in the feces decreased after DSS administration and was reversely correlated with severity of colitis, while the cell number of Enterobacteriaceae increased after DSS treatment and was positively correlated with colitis severity. These results indicate that FBRA has a suppressive effect on the induction of colitis by DSS and suggest FBRA-mediated modification of colonic microbiota.
17959329	Genetic polymorphism within the genomes of bacterial pathogens determines their evolutionary potential during long-term interaction with their hosts. To investigate the level of genetic variation in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causative agent of rice bacterial blight disease, three DNA marker systems, including (i) restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) of the avrBs3/PthA family genes (avrXa27), (ii) RFLP of insertion (IS) elements and (iii) random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers, were used to detect polymorphism among 32 Xoo strains that differed in their virulence patterns. All these strains contained multiple avrXa27 homologs that were variable in copy number and genomic location. RFLP of six IS elements revealed that these mobile sequences were abundant in Xoo genomes, with 150 of the total of 165 discernable markers being variable. Thirty-eight decamer primers of RAPD amplified a total of 691 bands, with 100% of them being variable. In addition, analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) of data from RFLP analysis of IS elements and from RAPD analysis showed that most of the genetic variation residues were within Xoo populations, rather than between populations. Although all three DNA marker systems supported that substantial variation was maintained in Xoo genomes, Mantel tests did not identify significant correlation between the similarity coefficients calculated from them. The results of the present study indicated that Xoo genomes contain a high level of genetic polymorphism, which greatly facilitates the evolution of this important pathogen during interaction with its host rice plant.
17959523	To compare the in vitro inhibitory effect of expolysaccharides from Streptomyces, polysaccharides of Ganoderma lucidum and rice bran on six-alpha-helix bundle formation of HIV gp41 protein. The amount of six-alpha-helix bundle formed in the presence of N36 and C34 was tested by ELISA in response to treatments with different doses of polysaccharides. Expolysaccharides from Streptomyces potentially inhibited six-alpha-helix bundle formation with the effective concentration (IC(50)) of 145.48-/+7.25 mg /L. Polysaccharides of Ganoderma lucidum and rice bran showed no effect on the six-alpha-helix bundle formation. Expolysaccharides from Streptomyces can inhibit the six-alpha-helix bundle formation of HIV gp41, whereas polysaccharides of Ganoderma lucidum and rice bran do not exhibit such activity.
17959716	MADS-box genes are crucial regulators of floral development, yet how their functions have evolved to control different aspects of floral patterning is unclear. To understand the extent to which MADS-box gene functions are conserved or have diversified in different angiosperm lineages, we have exploited the capability for functional analyses in a new model system, Papaver somniferum (opium poppy). P. somniferum is a member of the order Ranunculales, and so represents a clade that is evolutionarily distant from those containing traditional model systems such as Arabidopsis, Petunia, maize or rice. We have identified and characterized the roles of several candidate MADS-box genes in petal specification in poppy. In Arabidopsis, the APETALA3 (AP3) MADS-box gene is required for both petal and stamen identity specification. By contrast, we show that the AP3 lineage has undergone gene duplication and subfunctionalization in poppy, with one gene copy required for petal development and the other responsible for stamen development. These differences in gene function are due to differences both in expression patterns and co-factor interactions. Furthermore, the genetic hierarchy controlling petal development in poppy has diverged as compared with that of Arabidopsis. As these are the first functional analyses of AP3 genes in this evolutionarily divergent clade, our results provide new information on the similarities and differences in petal developmental programs across angiosperms. Based on these observations, we discuss a model for how the petal developmental program has evolved.
17960041	Differential expression of the key genes controlling phenolic metabolism in allelopathic and non-allelopathic rice accessions was investigated under two nitrogen supply levels (lower and normal) using fluorescence quantitative-polymerase chain reaction (FQ-PCR) (Figs.2, 3). The results indicated that 9 key enzyme genes concerned were mediated by lower nitrogen level (Table 2). All of the nine genes (Table 1, Fig.4), were up-regulated by 1.9-5.4 times of the relative gene expression amounts in allelopathic rice accession, 'PI312777' under the lower nitrogen condition compared with their controls, of which PAL gene showed the highest relative gene expression amount with 5.4 times of the relative gene expressions compared with the control, while in non-allelopathic rice Lemont, seven genes were down-regulated by 29%-72% under lower nitrogen supplies compared with their controls and only two genes, i.e., phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and cinnamoyl-CoA genes were up-regulated, which however were a decrease of 22% and 74% over those in allelopathic rice accession (Table 2). These findings strongly suggest that the increase of allelopathic potential induced by 1/4 nutrient stress was responsible for enhanced phenolic compound synthesis metabolism.
17960050	Previous data showed that a 31-bp (from -840 bp to -810 bp) DNA fragment located at the 5' upstream region of rice waxy gene could interact with nuclear protein extracted from developing endosperm of rice. When this 31 bp DNA sequence was used as a bait to screen a rice cDNA library with a yeast one-hybrid system, three groups of cDNA clones were isolated. One of them is pC73, the correspondent rice gene of pC73 was named as OsBP-73 (Oryza sativa binding protein). A pull-down assay was made to identify the target genes of transcription factor by using genomic DNA and recombinant p73 protein. The cDNA fragment containing DNA-binding domain of OsBP-73 was cloned into expression vector pET28-c(+) (Fig.1) to produce protein p73, fused with a his(6)-tag, from E. coli BL21 (DE3) (Fig.2). The p73 was purified with Ni-NTA under native condition (Fig.3). The target genes of p73 were identified in rice genome-wide by using a pull-down assay, and 22 candidate genes were obtained (Figs.4 and 5, and Table 1). The obtained results show that putative light-repressible receptor protein kinase and GAMYB-binding protein could serve as targets of the OsBP-73, suggesting that OsBP-73 might be involved in light signal transduction.
17960484	WRKY proteins are a large family of transcriptional regulators involved in a variety of biological processes in plants. Here we report functional characterization of a rice WRKY gene, OsWRKY89. RNA gel blot analysis indicated that OsWRKY89 was strongly induced by treatments of methyl jasmonate and UV-B radiation. The transient expression analysis of the OsWRKY89-eGFP reporter in onion epidermal cells revealed that OsWRKY89 was targeted to nuclei. Transcriptional activity assays of OsWRKY89 and its mutants fused with a GAL4 DNA binding domain indicated that the 67 C-terminal amino acids were required for the transcriptional activation and that the leucine zipper region at the N-terminus enhanced its transcriptional activity. Overexpression of OsWRKY89 led to growth retardation at the early stage and reduction of internode length. Scanning electron microscopy revealed an increase in wax deposition on leaf surfaces of the OsWRKY89 overexpression lines and a decrease in wax loading in the RNAi-mediated OsWRKY89 suppression lines. Moreover, extractable and cell-wall-bound phenolic compounds were decreased in the overexpressor lines, but its SA levels were increased. Lignin staining showed an increase in lignification in culms of the overexpressor lines. Interestingly, overexpression of the OsWRKY89 gene enhanced resistance to the rice blast fungus and white-backed planthopper as well as tolerance to UV-B irradiation. These results suggest that OsWRKY89 plays an important role in response to biotic and abiotic stresses.
17960998	The kissing loach, an endangered species surviving only in a few Japanese rivers, spawns in the rice-field areas after migration from rivers in early June. To characterize the environmental conditions required for spawning of the kissing loach, spawning was assessed for two years both by direct observation of spawning behavior and by the appearance of eggs, larvae, and juveniles from June to October. All spawning of the kissing loach was limited to within a couple of days after the formation of temporary waters by remarkable rises in water level. Water temperature and daily rainfall fluctuated during the investigation periods, and no clear relationships with spawning were detected. Furthermore, all spawning was observed only in temporary waters with terrestrial grasses. Thus, spawning of the kissing loach is rigidly limited spatio-temporally to after the formation of temporary waters over terrestrial vegetation. Appropriate management of temporary waters will be crucial for the continued existence of this species.
17961238	Despite the improvements of tools for automated annotation of genome sequences, manual curation at the structural and functional level can provide an increased level of refinement to genome annotation. The Institute for Genomic Research Rice Genome Annotation (hereafter named the Osa1 Genome Annotation) is the product of an automated pipeline and, for this reason, will benefit from the input of biologists with expertise in rice and/or particular gene families. Leveraging knowledge from a dispersed community of scientists is a demonstrated way of improving a genome annotation. This requires tools that facilitate 1) the submission of gene annotation to an annotation project, 2) the review of the submitted models by project annotators, and 3) the incorporation of the submitted models in the ongoing annotation effort. We have developed the Eukaryotic Community Annotation Package (EuCAP), an annotation tool, and have applied it to the rice genome. The primary level of curation by community annotators (CA) has been the annotation of gene families. Annotation can be submitted by email or through the EuCAP Web Tool. The CA models are aligned to the rice pseudomolecules and the coordinates of these alignments, along with functional annotation, are stored in the MySQL EuCAP Gene Model database. Web pages displaying the alignments of the CA models to the Osa1 Genome models are automatically generated from the EuCAP Gene Model database. The alignments are reviewed by the project annotators (PAs) in the context of experimental evidence. Upon approval by the PAs, the CA models, along with the corresponding functional annotations, are integrated into the Osa1 Genome Annotation. The CA annotations, grouped by family, are displayed on the Community Annotation pages of the project website http://rice.tigr.org, as well as in the Community Annotation track of the Genome Browser. We have applied EuCAP to rice. As of July 2007, the structural and/or functional annotation of 1,094 genes representing 57 families have been deposited and integrated into the current gene set. All of the EuCAP components are open-source, thereby allowing the implementation of EuCAP for the annotation of other genomes. EuCAP is available at http://sourceforge.net/projects/eucap/.
17961759	A rice diterpene cyclase, OsDTC2, functions as a stemar-13-ene synthase that converts syn-copalyl diphosphate into stemar-13-ene, a putative diterpene hydrocarbon precursor of the phytoalexin oryzalexin S. The transcriptional expression of OsDTC2 is induced by treatment of suspension-cultured rice cells with a chitin oligosaccharide elicitor. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of the elicitor signaling pathway that leads to OsDTC2 expression, we carried out deletion and mutation analysis of the region -1939 bp upstream of the transcription start site of OsDTC2 in rice cells using dual luciferase assays. The region between -1709 and -1450 bp was found to contain six W-box motifs, which are putative recognition sites for WRKY transcription factors, as cis elements involved in elicitor-responsiveness and/or basic promoter activity of OsDTC2.
17961936	Phytic acid, myo-inositol-hexakisphosphate (InsP(6)), is a storage form of phosphorus in plants. Despite many physiological investigations of phytic acid accumulation and storage, little is known at the molecular level about its biosynthetic pathway in plants. Recent work has suggested two pathways. One is an inositol lipid-independent pathway that occurs through the sequential phosphorylation of 1D-myo-inositol 3-phosphate (Ins(3)P). The second is a phospholipase C (PLC)-mediated pathway, in which inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P(3)) is sequentially phosphorylated to InsP(6). We identified 12 genes from rice (Oryza sativa L.) that code for the enzymes that may be involved in the metabolism of inositol phosphates. These enzymes include 1D-myo-inositol 3-phosphate synthase (MIPS), inositol monophosphatase (IMP), inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate kinase/inositol polyphosphate kinase (IPK2), inositol 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate 2-kinase (IPK1), and inositol 1,3,4-triskisphosphate 5/6-kinase (ITP5/6K). The quantification of absolute amounts of mRNA by real-time RT-PCR revealed the unique expression patterns of these genes. Outstanding up-regulation of the four genes, a MIPS, an IPK1, and two ITP5/6Ks in embryos, suggested that they play a significant role in phytic acid biosynthesis and that the lipid-independent pathway was mainly active in developing seeds. On the other hand, the up-regulation of a MIPS, an IMP, an IPK2, and an ITP5/6K in anthers suggested that a PLC-mediated pathway was active in addition to a lipid-independent pathway in the anthers.
17963977	The history of rice domestication has long been a subject of debate. Recently obtained genetic evidence provides new insights into this complex story. Genome-wide studies of variation demonstrate that the two varietal groups in Oryza sativa (indica and japonica) arose from genetically distinct gene pools within a common wild ancestor, Oryza rufipogon, suggesting multiple domestications of O. sativa. However, the evolutionary history of recently cloned domestication genes adds another layer of complexity to the domestication of rice. Although some alleles exist only within specific subpopulations, as would be expected if the domestications occurred independently, other major domestication alleles are common to all cultivated O. sativa varieties. Our current view of rice domestication supports multiple domestications coupled with limited introgression that transferred key domestication alleles between divergent rice gene pools.
17965028	The amount of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco, EC 4.1.1.39) synthesized in a leaf is closely correlated with N influx into the leaf throughout its lifetime. Rubisco synthesis and N influx are most active in the young leaf during expansion, but are very limited in the senescent leaf. However, it is not established whether Rubisco synthesis can be observed if N influx is increased, even in a very senescent leaf. This study first investigated changes in the relationships between rbcS and rbcL mRNA contents and Rubisco synthesis per unit of leaf mass with leaf senescence. Next, leaves were removed during late senescence, to examine whether Rubisco synthesis is re-stimulated in very senescent leaves by an increase in N influx. Different N concentrations (1 and 4 mm) were supplied to Oryza sativa plants at the early (full expansion), middle and late stages (respectively 8 and 16 d after full expansion) of senescence of the eighth leaf. To enhance N influx into the eighth leaf 16 d after full expansion, all leaf blades on the main stem, except for the eighth leaf, and all tillers were removed and plants received 4 mm N (removal treatment). Rubisco synthesis, rbcS and rbcL mRNAs and the translational efficiencies of rbcS and rbcL mRNAs decreased with leaf senescence irrespective of N treatments. However, in the removal treatment at the late stage, they increased more strongly with an increase in N influx than in intact plants. Although Rubisco synthesis and rbcS and rbcL mRNAs decrease with leaf senescence, leaves at the late stage of senescence have the potential actively to synthesize Rubisco with an increase in N influx.
17965173	In natural ecosystems, many plants are able to establish mutually beneficial symbioses with microorganisms. Of critical importance to sustainable agriculture are the symbioses formed between more than 80% of terrestrial plants and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and between legumes and nitrogen-fixing rhizobial bacteria. Interestingly, the two symbioses share overlapping signaling pathways in legumes, suggesting that the evolutionarily recent root nodule symbiosis may have acquired functions from the ancient AM symbiosis. The Medicago truncatula DMI3 (DOESN'T MAKE INFECTIONS3) gene (MtDMI3) and its orthologs in legumes are required for both bacterial and fungal symbioses. MtDMI3 encodes a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CCaMK) essential for the transduction of the Ca(2+) signal induced by the perception of Nod factors. Putative orthologs of MtDMI3 are also present in non-legumes, but their function in AM symbiosis has not been demonstrated in any non-legume species. Here, we combine reverse genetic approaches and a cross-species complementation test to characterize the function of the rice (Oryza sativa) ortholog of MtDMI3, namely, OsDMI3, in AM symbiosis. We demonstrate that OsDMI3 is not only required for AM symbiosis in rice but also is able to complement a M. truncatula dmi3 mutant, indicating an equivalent role of MtDMI3 orthologs in non-legumes.
17965272	Seasonal control of flowering through responsiveness to daylength shows extreme variation. Different species flower in response to long days or short days (SDs), and this difference evolved several times. The molecular mechanisms conferring these responses have been compared in detail only in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) and suggest that a conserved pathway confers daylength responses through regulation of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) transcription by CONSTANS (CO). We studied Pharbitis (Ipomoea nil; formerly, Pharbitis nil), a widely used SD model species and a member of the Convolvulaceae, and showed using transgenic plants together with detailed expression analysis that two putative orthologs of FT (Pn FT1 and Pn FT2) promote flowering specifically under SDs. These genes are expressed only under SDs, and light flashes given during the night reduce their expression and prevent flowering. We demonstrate that in Pharbitis a circadian rhythm set by the light-to-dark transition at dusk regulates Pn FT expression, which rises only when the night is longer than 11 h. Furthermore, Pharbitis accessions that differ in their critical night-length responses express Pn FT at different times after dusk, demonstrating that natural genetic variation influencing the clock regulating Pn FT expression alters the flowering response. In these assays, Pn FT mRNA abundance was not related to Pn CO expression, suggesting that Pn FT may be regulated by a different transcription factor in Pharbitis. We conclude that SD response in Pharbitis is controlled by a dedicated light sensitive clock, set by dusk, that activates Pn FT transcription in darkness, a different mechanism for measuring daylength than described for Arabidopsis and rice.
17965273	In rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana, gibberellin (GA) signaling is mediated by GIBBERELLIN-INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) and DELLA proteins in collaboration with a GA-specific F-box protein. To explore when plants evolved the ability to perceive GA by the GID1/DELLA pathway, we examined these GA signaling components in the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii and the bryophyte Physcomitrella patens. An in silico search identified several homologs of GID1, DELLA, and GID2, a GA-specific F-box protein in rice, in both species. Sm GID1a and Sm GID1b, GID1 proteins from S. moellendorffii, showed GA binding activity in vitro and interacted with DELLA proteins from S. moellendorffii in a GA-dependent manner in yeast. Introduction of constitutively expressed Sm GID1a, Sm G1D1b, and Sm GID2a transgenes rescued the dwarf phenotype of rice gid1 and gid2 mutants. Furthermore, treatment with GA(4), a major GA in S. moellendorffii, caused downregulation of Sm GID1b, Sm GA20 oxidase, and Sm GA3 oxidase and degradation of the Sm DELLA1 protein. These results demonstrate that the homologs of GID1, DELLA, and GID2 work in a similar manner in S. moellendorffii and in flowering plants. Biochemical studies revealed that Sm GID1s have different GA binding properties from GID1s in flowering plants. No evidence was found for the functional conservation of these genes in P. patens, indicating that GID1/DELLA-mediated GA signaling, if present, differs from that in vascular plants. Our results suggest that GID1/DELLA-mediated GA signaling appeared after the divergence of vascular plants from the moss lineage.
17965395	To understand which soil chemical properties are the best predictors of CH4 production in rice paddy soils, a model was developed with empirical data from nine types of rice soils collected around Japan and anaerobically incubated at 30 degrees C for 16 wk in laboratory conditions. After 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 wk of incubation, CO2, CH4, and Fe(II) were measured to understand soil organic matter decomposition and iron (Fe) reduction. Available N (N ava) was also measured at the end of incubation. The results showed that decomposable C and reducible Fe are two key parameters that regulate soil CH(4) production (P CH4). There was a significant relationship between decomposable C and available N (N ava) (r2 = 0.975**). Except for a sandy soil sample, a significant relationship between total Fe (Fe total) and reducible Fe was found. From this experiment, a simple model of soil CH4 production was developed: P CH4 = 1.593N(ava) - 2.460Fe total/1000 (each unit was mg kg(-1) soil). After simulated CH4 production by two soil chemical properties as above, there was a significant consistency between model simulation and actual measurement (r2 = 0.831**).
1796578	A method has been developed for assay of deoxynivalenol (DON) and its metabolite desepoxideoxynivalenol (DOM-1) in animal excrements with the use of reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with UV-detection (218 nm). The method includes purification in the mini-column with activated carbon and aluminium oxide. The detection limit was 50 ng/g, relative standard deviation--0.05-0.1, the degree of toxin isolation--76-89%. DON isolated from Fusarium macroceras, strain 579a, cultivated in rice under laboratory conditions, and DOM-1 obtained as a result of DON incubation with the contents of the beef first stomach, were used in the study. The structure of toxins isolated has been proved by the mass-spectrometry method. The method developed by the authors was used in the study of DON metabolism in vivo in monkeys.
17967534	In this paper, the changes of available elemental contents in the nutrient solution extracts of organic substrates (peat moss, charred rice husk, chicken manure, sawdust, turfgrass clipping and weathered coal) were studied and compared with that in the water extracts. Results showed that available elemental contents in the nutrient solution extracts are significantly different between organic substrates, whereas ionic concentrations are basically under steady condition after treatment for 36-108 h. Ionic contents in the nutrient solution extracts are not equal to the value of adding ionic concentrations in the supplied nutrient solution to that in the water extract. Thus, a mathematical model was proposed for adjusting the composition of supplied nutrient solution to match plant requirements in the organic soilless culture system.
1796812	Enzyme stability studies in case of Sclerotium rolfsii UV-8 mutant have been investigated under the conditions used for saccharification of cellulose (50 degrees C, pH 4.5, 48 h). Avicelase (measure of exoenzymes) and xylanase were found to be less stable than CMCase (endoglucanase) and beta-glucosidase. Merthiolate (and other Hg compounds) added as a biocide, inactivated avicelase and xylanase about 60-70%. Of the antibiotics tested, tetracycline, chloramphenicol, and streptomycin sulfate were found suitable as an additive in cellulose hydrolysis system. The optimum hydrolysis of alkali-treated (AT)-rice straw, AT-bagasse, Solka Floc SW40, and Avicel P.H.101 was observed under shaking conditions at pH 4.5, 50 degrees C in CO2 atmosphere. It is suggested, all the studied parameters could be used for the evaluation of mutant strains.
17968552	Exposure of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings to a high temperature (42 degrees C) for 24 h resulted in a significant increase in tolerance to drought stress. To try to determine the mechanisms of acquisition of tolerance to drought stress by heat shock, the rice small heat-shock protein gene, sHSP17.7, the product of which was shown to act as molecular chaperones in vitro and in vivo in our previous study, was overexpressed in the rice cultivar "Hoshinoyume". Western and Northern blot analyses showed higher expression levels of sHSP17.7 protein in three transgenic lines than in one transgenic line. Drought tolerance was assessed in these transgenic lines and wild-type plants by withholding water for 6 days for evaluation of the ability of plants to continue growth after water-stress treatments. Although no significant difference was found in water potential of seedlings between transgenic lines and wild-type plants at the end of drought treatments, only transgenic seedlings with higher expression levels of sHSP17.7 protein could regrow after rewatering. Similar results were observed in survival rates after treatments with 30% polyethylene glycol (PEG) 3640 for 3 days. These results suggest that overproduction of sHSP17.7 could increase drought tolerance in transgenic rice seedlings.
1796877	For a better understanding of the epidemiology of Plasmodium falciparum in an African savanna area, the authors have: (a) defined the real gametocyte reservoir in the native population; (b) followed the fluctuations of gametocytaemia throughout the transmission period; and (c) measured the infectiousness of malarious individuals to mosquitoes. The transversal surveys, in different villages of this endemic area, have shown that gametocyte carrier rates decreased with age and malaria experience; 10.9% of the whole population were potentially infectious to mosquitoes, and of these 73% were children and only 27% were adults. The longitudinal studies have shown that the P. falciparum gametocyte rate depends on the equilibrium between the gametocyte conversion rates and the density of the asexual forms. When there are large numbers of children who become carriers of the sexual stage of the parasite and at the same time a small number who lose their gametocyte infection, the gametocyte rate increases in the population; and vice versa. The circumstances under which gametocytes are produced are not well-known. Two factors seem to be important: the level of the parasite density and immune mechanisms. The infectiousness of malarious individuals was estimated by the 'mosquito infection probability'. The percentage of mosquitoes infected after feeding on gametocyte carriers (which may partly reflect the infectiousness of a human population to mosquitoes) was multiplied by the percentage of gametocyte carriers in the population. This indicated that, in this endemic area, 4% of biting mosquitoes would become infected; but this theoretical mosquito infection probability is over-estimated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
17969693	Over use of nitrogen fertilization can result in groundwater pollution. Tools that can rapidly quantify the nitrogen status are needed for efficient fertilizer management and would be very helpful in reducing the environmental pollution caused by excessive nitrogen application. Remote sensing has a proven ability to provide spatial and temporal measurements of surface properties. In this study, the MLR (multiple linear regression) and ANN (artificial neural network) modeling methods were applied to the monitoring of rice N (nitrogen concentration, mg nitrogen g(-1) leaf dry weight) status using leaf level hyperspectral reflectance with two different input variables, and as a result four estimation models were proposed. RMSE (root-mean-square error), REP (relative error of prediction), R2 (coefficient of determination), as well as the intercept and slope between the observed and predicted N were used to test the performance of models. Very good agreements between the observed and the predicted N were obtained with all proposed models, which was especially true for the R-ANN (artificial neural network based on reflectance selected using MLR) model. Compared to the other three models, the R-ANN model improved the results by lowering the RMSE by 14.2%, 32.1%, and 31.5% for the R-LR (linear regression based on reflectance) model, PC-LR (linear regression based on principal components scores) model, and PC-ANN (artificial neural network based on principal components scores) model, respectively. It was concluded that the ANN algorithm may provide a useful exploratory and predictive tool when applied on hyperspectral reflectance data for nitrogen status monitoring. Besides, although the performance of MLR was superior to PCA used for ANN inputs selection, the encouraging results of PC-based models indicated the promising potential of ANN combined with PCA application on hyperspectral reflectance analysis.
17969706	Paired grain, shoot, and soil of 173 individual sample sets of commercially farmed temperate rice, wheat, and barley were surveyed to investigate variation in the assimilation and translocation of arsenic (As). Rice samples were obtained from the Carmargue (France), Doana (Spain), Cadiz (Spain), California, and Arkansas. Wheat and barleywere collected from Cornwall and Devon (England) and the east coast of Scotland. Transfer of As from soil to grain was an order of magnitude greater in rice than for wheat and barley, despite lower rates of shoot-to-grain transfer. Rice grain As levels over 0.60 microg g(-1) d. wt were found in rice grown in paddy soil of around only 10 microg g(-1) As, showing that As in paddy soils is problematic with respect to grain As levels. This is due to the high shoot/soil ratio of approximately 0.8 for rice compared to 0.2 and 0.1 for barley and wheat, respectively. The differences in these transfer ratios are probably due to differences in As speciation and dynamics in anaerobic rice soils compared to aerobic soils for barley and wheat. In rice, the export of As from the shoot to the grain appears to be under tight physiological control as the grain/shoot ratio decreases by more than an order of magnitude (from approximately 0.3 to 0.003 mg/kg) and as As levels in the shoots increase from 1 to 20 mg/kg. A down regulation of shoot-to-grain export may occur in wheat and barley, but it was not detected at the shoot As levels found in this survey. Some agricultural soils in southwestern England had levels in excess of 200 microg g(-1) d. wt, although the grain levels for wheat and barley never breached 0.55 microg g(-1) d. wt. These grain levels were achieved in rice in soils with an order of magnitude lower As. Thus the risk posed by As in the human food-chain needs to be considered in the context of anaerobic verses aerobic ecosystems.
17970103	A method for the determination of glyphosate (PMG) and aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) residues in plant products, such as rice, wheat, vegetables, fruits and tea, pig and chicken muscles, aquatic products, chestnut, honey, etc., was developed using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). In this method, PMG and AMPA were extracted with water from samples, defatted using an extraction step with dichloromethane, and purified using a cation-exchange (CAX) solid phase extraction cartridge. Then, these were derived using fluorenylmethylchloroformate (FMOC-Cl) in borate buffer for subsequent HPLC-MS/MS analysis. Isotope-labeled PMG 1, 2(13)- C(15) N was used as the internal standard for the quantitative analysis of two residues. For all samples, the recoveries ranged from 80.0% to 104% and the relative standard deviations (RSDs) ranged from 6.7% to 18.2%. The limit of quantification (LOQ) was determined to be 0.05 mg/kg with a linear range of 0.20-10 microg/L. It is demonstrated that this method is reliable and sensitive for the analysis of PMG and APMA with low concentrations in foods.
17970114	A high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for the simultaneous determination of sulfonylurea herbicide and diphenylether herbicide residues in soybean and rice samples was developed and evaluated. The analytes in soybean and rice samples were extracted with acetonitrile. The extract was cleaned up using an SPE-C18 cartridge, separated and quantitatively determined by reversed-phase HPLC with an ultraviolet detector. The conditions of the pretreatment for soybean and rice samples as well as the parameters of chromatographic separation were optimized. The method had a good linearity in the range of 0.05-2.0 mg/L. The quantitative limits (LOQ) of the 8 herbicide residues were 0.01-0.02 mg/kg. The spiked recoveries were in the range of 91.6%-116.1% for soybean samples and 76.6%-110.8% for rice samples with the relative standard deviations of 1.0%-12.2%. It is concluded that the proposed method is rapid, accurate and sensitive and can be used for the determination of the eight herbicide residues in soybean and rice.
17971040	Recent evidence indicates that small interfering RNA (siRNA) induces chromatin modifications and inactivation at homologous genomic sequences. A large number of endogenous siRNAs have been discovered that correspond to widely dispersed regions of the genome. We used an experimental system in which transgene-derived siRNAs target promoter regions in rice to determine whether or not siRNAs induce chromatin modifications that result in inactivation. Our results indicate that siRNAs targeted to one transgene and seven endogenous genes induce DNA methylation at all of the target promoters, but do not induce transcriptional suppression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays indicate that reduced euchromatic histone modifications were concomitant with the silencing of one endogenous gene, but not of six other endogenous genes that were not silenced. Furthermore, heterchromatic H3K9me2 was higher only in the promoter of the transgene that was completely silenced. These findings lead us to assume that siRNA rarely induces chromatin inactivation or changes in pattern of histone modification, especially H3K9 methylation, within most regions of the genome.
17972634	Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), or fall armyworm, is an important agricultural pest of several crops in the Western Hemisphere, including cotton (Gossypium L.). Two morphologically identical host strains of fall armyworm exist that differ in plant host use and habitat distribution. The corn-strain is a primary pest of corn, Zea mays L., whereas the rice-strain is the majority population infesting rice (Oryza spp.) and turfgrass (Cynodon spp.). With the increased use of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxin-expressing cotton varieties and the necessity of ensuring adequate refuge areas to prevent the spread of Bt toxin resistance, it is crucial to identify the alternative plant hosts available for the fall armyworm population infesting cotton. Stable isotope analysis combined with the molecular analysis of strain-specific markers was used to investigate whether one or both strains routinely develop on cotton grown in the Mississippi delta. We found that the majority of fall armyworm adults present during the early cotton growing season arose from C4 plants (e.g., corn and sorghum, Sorghum vulgare Pers.) and that the only strain likely to be developing on cotton (a C3 plant) in substantial numbers was the corn-strain. The population distribution patterns observed were consistent with corn providing an important refuge for the fall armyworm strain infesting cotton and suggested that late season populations in the Mississippi delta may be migrants from more northern corn areas.
17973291	We evaluated the suitability of high-throughput proteomic methods to monitor terrestrial ecosystems. Free-living Mus spretus from three sites along the "Domingo Rubio" (DR) stream were compared with mice from Doana Biological Reserve ("Santa Olalla" lagoon (SOL) negative control), using specimens from an industrial settlement (phosphogypsum stacks (PS)) and rice fields ("Matochal" rice fields (ARZ)) as positive controls. Our 2-DE analysis showed 36 spots with significantly altered expression. Sixteen were identified by MALDI-TOF-PMF and peptide matching with Mus musculus databases. Identified proteins play different roles: cytoskeletal dynamics, proteolysis, biotransformation, oxidative-stress adaptation, and metabolism. Animals from different polluted environments showed contrasting differences in their proteomes, with specific increases and decreases in selected groups of proteins that seem to be co-ordinately regulated. Proteomic data were consistent with metal biomonitoring and conventional biomarker responses, indicating that DR (and PS/ARZ) animals sustained a heavier pollutant burden than SOL specimens and suffered a chronic oxidative stress. Whereas some protein expression differences may protect mice from pollutant toxicity, others should make them more susceptible. Transcript expression signatures agree with the documented lack of correlation between mRNA and protein levels. Nonetheless, a positive significant correlation was found between the gpx1 mRNA molecules and the intensity of one of the two identified GPX1 isospots.
17973443	Rice bran contains many phenolic acids, the most abundant of which is the antioxidant, ferulic acid (FA). We evaluated the hypoglycemic effects of a phenolic acid fraction (the ethyl acetate fraction, EAE) of rice bran and of FA in C57BL/KsJ db/db mice. Type 2 diabetic mice were allocated to a control group, an EAE group, or an FA group. Animals were fed a modified AIN-76 diet, and EAE or FA was administered orally for 17 days. There was no significant difference in body weight gain between groups. Administration of EAE and FA significantly decreased blood glucose levels and increased plasma insulin levels. EAE or FA groups had significantly elevated hepatic glycogen synthesis and glucokinase activity compared with the control group. Plasma total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations were significantly decreased by EAE and FA administration. These findings suggest that EAE and FA may be beneficial for treatment of type 2 diabetes because they regulate blood glucose levels by elevating glucokinase activity and production of glycogen in the liver.
17974097	Monascus purpureus-fermented rice (MR), a preparation which has been shown to be hypolipidemic and antiatherogenic in rabbits and hamsters was fed to quail maintained on a high fat diet to determine if it could influence lipidemia and hepatic steatosis. MR was fed at two levels (0.8 or 1.6 g/kg/d), and compared with a lipoptropic preparation (dongbaogantai 0.6 g/kg/d) and an established hypolipidemic compound (lovastatin 6 mg/kg/d). All the test compounds lowered serum lipids and liver cholesterol levels. Dongbaogantai inhibited hepatic steatosis to the greatest extent (78%), lovastatin inhibited steatosis by 29% and the low and high doses of MR by 25 and 43%, respectively. These serum cholesterol lowering agents have been shown to reduce hepatic steatosis induced by dietary means.
17974240	By using the 1990-2003 meteorological data gathered from 12 ecosystem stations of Chinese Ecosystem Research Network, the evapotranspiration rates of forest, grassland and farmland were estimated by soil-vegetation-atmosphere transfer model, with their change patterns under different climate conditions investigated. The results showed that the mean annual evapotranspiration from high to low ranked as tropical forestland, subtropical farmland, temperate forestland, temperate farmland and grassland. For farmland, rice field had the highest annual evapotranspiration, followed by wheat field, and maize field. There was an obvious monthly variation of evapotranspiration on forestland, grassland and farmland, but the inter-annual amplitude of the variation was steadier on forestland and grassland than on farmland.
17974362	Anemia is a significant public health problem among schoolchildren in Vietnam. Food fortification is considered one of the most sustainable long-term strategies to control iron-deficiency anemia in Vietnam. The success of a food-fortification program depends on the choice of the food vehicle. The aim of the present study was to identify an appropriate vehicle for iron fortification to be used in a school-feeding program aimed at improving the iron and anemia status of schoolchildren in rural Vietnam. Children 6 to 8 years of age in two primary schools in Tam Nong District, Phu Tho Province, and their parents were included in this study. The study consisted of three substudies: a food-consumption study with 24-hour recalls of two nonconsecutive days; a food-beliefs study, with focus group discussions, a pile-sorting test, and a food attributes and differences exercise; and a food-acceptance study using noodles and biscuits fortified with sodium iron ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (NaFeEDTA). The average number of meals consumed daily was 3.2 +/- 0.4, and the average intakes of energy and iron were 1,218 +/- 406 kcal and 7.5 +/- 4.0 mg, respectively. Compared with biscuits and instant rice soup, instant noodles were consumed more frequently and in larger portion sizes and are more acceptable as children's food in the culture of the local people. The iron level of the fortified product did not affect the mean consumption of noodles, but a higher level of iron was associated with a lower mean consumption of biscuits (p < .05). The production process did not affect the NaFeEDTA level in noodles; however, during preparation at least 70% of the iron is leaked into the soup. Instant noodles are a suitable vehicle for iron fortification for use in school-based intervention to improve iron-deficiency anemia among primary schoolchildren in rural Vietnam.
17974547	Some of the principal transitions in the evolution of eukaryotes are characterized by engulfment of prokaryotes by primitive eukaryotic cells. In particular, approximately 1.6 billion years ago, engulfment of a cyanobacterium that became the ancestor of chloroplasts and other plastids gave rise to Plantae, the major branch of eukaryotes comprised of glaucophytes, red algae, green algae, and green plants. After endosymbiosis, there was large-scale migration of genes from the endosymbiont to the nuclear genome of the host such that approximately 18% of the nuclear genes in Arabidopsis appear to be of chloroplast origin. To gain insights into the process of evolution of gene structure in these, originally, intronless genes, we compared the properties and the evolutionary dynamics of introns in genes of plastid origin and ancestral eukaryotic genes in Arabidopsis, poplar, and rice genomes. We found that intron densities in plastid-derived genes were slightly but significantly lower than those in ancestral eukaryotic genes. Although most of the introns in both categories of genes were conserved between monocots (rice) and dicots (Arabidopsis and poplar), lineage-specific intron gain was more pronounced in plastid-derived genes than in ancestral genes, whereas there was no significant difference in the intron loss rates between the 2 classes of genes. Thus, after the transfer to the nuclear genome, the plastid-derived genes have undergone a massive intron invasion that, by the time of the divergence of dicots and monocots (150-200 MYA), yielded intron densities only slightly lower than those in ancestral genes. Nevertheless, the accumulation of introns in plastid-derived genes appears not to have reached saturation and continues to this time, albeit at a low rate. The overall pattern of intron gain and loss in the plastid-derived genes is shaped by this continuing gain and the more general tendency for loss that is characteristic of the recent evolution of plant genes.
17975263	Comparison of genomic maps is hampered by errors and ambiguities introduced by mapping technology, incorrectly resolved paralogy, small samples of markers and extensive genome rearrangement. We design an analysis to remove or resolve most of these problems and to extract corrected data where markers occur in consecutive strips in both genomes. To do this we introduce the notion of pre-strip, an efficient way of generating these, and a compatibility analysis culminating in a Maximum Weighted Clique (MWC) search. The output can be directly analyzed with genome rearrangement algorithms, allowing the restoration of some of the data not incorporated into the clique solution. We investigate the trade-off between criteria for discarding excessive pre-strips to make MWC feasible, in terms of retaining as many markers as possible in the solution and producing an economical rearrangement analysis. We explore these questions through simulation and through comparison of the rice and sorghum genomes.
17976238	Several studies have investigated the relationships between selective constraints in introns and their length, GC content and location within genes. To date, however, no such investigation has been done in plants. Studies of selective constraints in noncoding DNA have generally involved interspecific comparisons, under the assumption of the same selective pressures acting in each lineage. Such comparisons are limited to cases in which the noncoding sequences are not too strongly diverged so that reliable sequence alignments can be obtained. Here, we investigate selective constraints in a recent segmental duplication that includes 605 paralogous intron pairs that occurred about 7 million years ago in rice (O. sativa). Our principal findings are: (1) intronic divergence is negatively correlated with intron length, a pattern that has previously been described in Drosophila and mammals; (2) there is a signature of strong purifying selection at splice control sites; (3) first introns are significantly longer and have a higher GC content than other introns; (4) the divergences of first and non-first introns are not significantly different from one another, a pattern that differs from Drosophila and mammals; and (5) short introns are more diverged than four-fold degenerate sites suggesting that selection reduces divergence at four-fold sites. Our observation of stronger selective constraints in long introns suggests that functional elements subject to purifying selection may be concentrated within long introns. Our results are consistent with the presence of strong purifying selection at splicing control sites. Selective constraints are not significantly stronger in first introns of rice, as they are in other species.
17977636	Soil-to-plant transfer factors (TFs) of radiocobalt (60Co) were determined in pot experiments for leafy vegetation, root crops and rice grown in the tropical environment of Bangladesh. Soil properties were also measured to establish a relationship between these properties and TF values. Measured TF values of 60Co for leafy vegetation (average of 2.2 x 10(-2)) were slightly higher than the values obtained for root vegetation (average of 1.6 x 10(-2)). However, TF values obtained for rice (average of 1.17 x 10(-2)) were about a factor of 2 lower than the values obtained for leafy vegetation. TF values of 60Co for leafy vegetation and root crops were observed to decrease with increasing pH, exchangeable K+ and clay content in the soil, even though poor correlations were estimated statistically. No consistent relationship between the TF value for 60Co and organic matter content could be deduced. The results presented here provide a useful addition to existing databases on soil-plant transfer for 60Co, since this information is still rather sparse for tropical environments.
17978222	Several strains of the fungus Rhizopus microsporus harbour endosymbiotic bacteria for the production of the causal agent of rice seedling blight, rhizoxin, and the toxic cyclopeptide rhizonin. R. microsporus and isolated endobacteria were selected for freeze-fracture electron microscopy, which allowed visualization of bacterial cells within the fungal cytosol by their two parallel-running envelope membranes and by the fine structure of the lipopolysaccharide layer of the outer membrane. Two representatives of bacterial endosymbionts were chosen for phylogenetic analyses on the basis of full 16S rRNA gene sequences, which revealed that the novel fungal endosymbionts formed a monophyletic group within the genus Burkholderia. Inter-sequence similarities ranged from 98.94 to 100%, and sequence similarities to members of the Burkholderia pseudomallei group, the closest neighbours, were 96.74-97.38%. In addition, the bacterial strains were distinguished from their phylogenetic neighbours by their fatty acid profiles and other biochemical characteristics. The phylogenetic studies based on 16S rRNA gene sequence data, together with conclusive DNA-DNA reassociation experiments, strongly support the proposal that these strains represent two novel species within the genus Burkholderia, for which the names Burkholderia rhizoxinica sp. nov. (type strain, HKI 454T=DSM 19002T=CIP 109453T) and Burkholderia endofungorum sp. nov. (type strain, HKI 456T=DSM 19003T=CIP 109454T) are proposed.
17978574	The genes encoding non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs), members of a small multigene family, show a complex pattern of expressional regulation, suggesting that some diversification may have resulted from changes in their expression after duplication. In this study, the evolution of nsLTP genes within the Poaceae family was characterized via a survey of the pseudogenes and unigenes encoding the nsLTP in rice pseudomolecules and the NCBI unigene database. nsLTP-rich regions were detected in the distal portions of rice chromosomes 11 and 12; these may have resulted from the most recent large segmental duplication in the rice genome. Two independent tandem duplications were shown to occur within the nsLTP-rich regions of rice. The genomic distribution of the nsLTP genes in the rice genome differs from that in wheat. This may be attributed to gene migration, chromosomal rearrangement, and/or differential gene loss. The genomic distribution pattern of nsLTP genes in the Poaceae family points to the existence of some differences among cereal nsLTP genes, all of which diverged from an ancient gene. The unigenes encoding nsLTPs in each cereal species are clustered into five groups. The somewhat different distribution of nsLTP-encoding EST clones between the groups across cereal species imply that independent duplication(s) followed by subfunctionalization (and/or neofunctionalization) of the nsLTP gene family in each species occurred during speciation.
17978880	Wild rice is a valuable resource for the genetic improvement of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L., AA genome). Molecular markers are important tools for monitoring gene introgression from wild rice into cultivated rice. In this study, Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were used to analyze interspecific hybrids of O. sativa-O. officinalis (CC genome), the backcrossing progenies and the parent plants. Results showed that most of the SSR primers (335 out of 396, 84.6%) developed in cultivated rice successfully amplified products from DNA samples of wild rice O. officinalis. The polymorphism ratio of SSR bands between O. sativa and O. officinalis was as high as 93.9%, indicating differences between the two species with respect to SSRs. When the SSR markers were applied in the interspecific hybrids, only a portion of SSR primers amplified O. officinalis-specific bands in the F(1) hybrid (52.5%), BC(1) (52.5%), and MAALs (37.0%); a number of the bands disappeared. Of the 124 SSR loci that detected officinalis-specific bands in MAAL plants, 96 (77.4%) showed synteny between the A and C-genomes, and 20 (16.1%) showed duplication in the C-genome. Sequencing analysis revealed that indels, substitution and duplication contribute to the diversity of SSR loci between the genomes of O. sativa and O. officinalis.
17978954	Sorption and leaching of the organophosphate (OP) pesticides chlorpyrifos, profenofos, methyl parathion and malathion were investigated with four different types of biomass: coconut husk, rice husk, peat moss and peanut shell. Organic carbon contents of the biomass were in the range of 35.4-45.4%. Sorption studies were carried out by the batch (equilibrium) method at 4 different OP spike concentrations and at pH 3-7. Sorption isotherms conformed to a linear Freundlich equation and the Freundlich constant or sorption coefficient (KD) confirmed that biomass organic carbon content was the principal sorbent factor affecting OP sorption. For a given sorbent, correlation of the extent of sorption with sorbate chemical properties was examined. Column leaching experiments involving different masses of coconut husk and peanut shell pre-spiked with OPs at the level equivalent to actual spraying concentrations in some Thai tangerine orchards were conducted. These experiments included repeated spikings and leaching. A water flow rate of 20 mL min(-1) was employed corresponding to the current average watering regime. Retardation and biodegradation with these sorbents were also examined.
17981875	We describe here a novel proteoliposome reconstitution system for functional analysis of plant membrane transporters that is based on a modified wheat germ cell-free translation system. We established optimized conditions for the reconstitution system with Arabidopsis thaliana phosphoenolpyruvate/phosphate translocator 1 (AtPPT1) as a model transporter. A high activity of AtPPT1 was achieved by synthesis of the protein in the presence of both a detergent such as Brij35 and liposomes. We also determined the substrate specificities of three putative rice PPT homologs with this system. The cell-free proteoliposome reconstitution system provides a valuable tool for functional analysis of transporter proteins.
17981946	Bacterial leaf streak, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, is an important disease of rice. Transposon-mediated mutational analysis of the pathogen with a quantitative assay revealed candidate virulence factors including genes involved in the pathogenesis of other phytopathogenic bacteria, virulence factors of animal pathogens, and genes not previously associated with virulence.
17981989	Glufosinate ammonium diminished developments of rice (Oryza sativa) blast and brown leaf spot in 35S:bar-transgenic rice. Pre- and postinoculation treatments of this herbicide reduced disease development. Glufosinate ammonium specifically impeded appressorium formation of the pathogens Magnaporthe grisea and Cochliobolus miyabeanus on hydrophobic surface and on transgenic rice. In contrast, conidial germination remained unaffected. Glufosinate ammonium diminished mycelial growth of two pathogens; however, this inhibitory effect was attenuated in malnutrition conditions. Glufosinate ammonium caused slight chlorosis and diminished chlorophyll content; however, these alterations were almost completely restored in transgenic rice within 7 d. Glufosinate ammonium triggered transcriptions of PATHOGENESIS-RELATED (PR) genes and hydrogen peroxide accumulation in transgenic rice and PR1 transcription in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild-type ecotype Columbia harboring 35S:bar construct. All transgenic Arabidopsis showed robust hydrogen peroxide accumulation by glufosinate ammonium. This herbicide also induced PR1 transcription in etr1 and jar1 expressing bar; however, no expression was observed in NahG and npr1. Fungal infection did not alter transcriptions of PR genes and hydrogen peroxide accumulation induced by glufosinate ammonium. Infiltration of glufosinate ammonium did not affect appressorium formation of M. grisea in vivo but inhibited blast disease development. Hydrogen peroxide scavengers nullified blast protection and transcriptions of PR genes by glufosinate ammonium; however, they did not affect brown leaf spot progression. In sum, both direct inhibition of pathogen infection and activation of defense systems were responsible for disease protection in bar-transgenic rice.
17984077	Gramene (www.gramene.org) is a curated resource for genetic, genomic and comparative genomics data for the major crop species, including rice, maize, wheat and many other plant (mainly grass) species. Gramene is an open-source project. All data and software are freely downloadable through the ftp site (ftp.gramene.org/pub/gramene) and available for use without restriction. Gramene's core data types include genome assembly and annotations, other DNA/mRNA sequences, genetic and physical maps/markers, genes, quantitative trait loci (QTLs), proteins, ontologies, literature and comparative mappings. Since our last NAR publication 2 years ago, we have updated these data types to include new datasets and new connections among them. Completely new features include rice pathways for functional annotation of rice genes; genetic diversity data from rice, maize and wheat to show genetic variations among different germplasms; large-scale genome comparisons among Oryza sativa and its wild relatives for evolutionary studies; and the creation of orthologous gene sets and phylogenetic trees among rice, Arabidopsis thaliana, maize, poplar and several animal species (for reference purpose). We have significantly improved the web interface in order to provide a more user-friendly browsing experience, including a dropdown navigation menu system, unified web page for markers, genes, QTLs and proteins, and enhanced quick search functions.
17985162	Due in part to its small genome (approximately 350 Mb), Brachypodium distachyon is emerging as a model system for temperate grasses, including important crops like wheat and barley. We present the analysis of 10.9% of the Brachypodium genome based on 64,696 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) end sequences (BES). Analysis of repeat DNA content in BES revealed that approximately 11.0% of the genome consists of known repetitive DNA. The vast majority of the Brachypodium repetitive elements are LTR retrotransposons. While Bare-1 retrotransposons are common to wheat and barley, Brachypodium repetitive element sequence-1 (BRES-1), closely related to Bare-1, is also abundant in Brachypodium. Moreover, unique Brachypodium repetitive element sequences identified constitute approximately 7.4% of its genome. Simple sequence repeats from BES were analyzed, and flanking primer sequences for SSR detection potentially useful for genetic mapping are available at http://brachypodium.pw.usda.gov . Sequence analyses of BES indicated that approximately 21.2% of the Brachypodium genome represents coding sequence. Furthermore, Brachypodium BES have more significant matches to ESTs from wheat than rice or maize, although these species have similar sizes of EST collections. A phylogenetic analysis based on 335 sequences shared among seven grass species further revealed a closer relationship between Brachypodium and Triticeae than Brachypodium and rice or maize.
17985214	Rice flour is a well-known and characterized source of pharmaceutical ingredients, which are gluten-free and incorporated in many drug delivery applications such as excipient starch. To further exploit this uniqueness, the synthetic capacity of rice endosperm tissue, the basis of rice flour, was extended by genetic transformation. Recombinant human GM-CSF, a cytokine used in treating neutropenia and with other potential clinical applications, has been expressed in transgenic rice seeds using a rice glutelin promoter. Rice seeds accumulated human GM-CSF to a level of 1.3% of total soluble protein. The rice seed-produced human GM-CSF was found to be biologically active when tested using a human cell line TF-1. Use of rice as a host plant offers not only attractive features of safe production in seeds but also self-containment of foreign genes, as rice is primarily a self-pollinated crop plant.
17986178	The WRKY transcription factor superfamily controls diverse developmental and physiological processes in plants. However, little is known about the factors that directly regulate the function of WRKY genes. In this study, we identified cis-acting elements and their binding proteins of rice OsWRKY13, a gene that plays a pivotal role in disease resistance against bacterial and fungal pathogens. Two novel pathogen-responsive cis-elements, PRE2 and PRE4, were characterized from the promoter region of OsWRKY13. The two cis-elements negatively regulate gene expression without pathogen challenge, and positively regulate gene expression after pathogen-induced protein binding. OsWRKY13 binds to PRE4, which harbours a novel W-like box. Another five proteins (Rad51-like; tubby-like; SWIM zinc finger and nucleotide-binding adaptor shared by APAF-1, certain R proteins and CED-4 (NB-ARC) domain containing proteins; and an unknown protein) also bind to one of the two cis-elements. Different proteins interacting with the same cis-element appear to have different DNA-binding core sequences. These proteins localize in the nucleus and show differential expression upon pathogen challenge. These results suggest that OsWRKY13 expression is regulated by multiple factors to achieve disease resistance.
17986329	Auxin/Indole-3-Acetic Acid (Aux/IAA) and Auxin Response Factor (ARF) transcription factors are key regulators of auxin responses in plants. We identified the suites of genes in the two gene families in Populus and performed comparative genomic analysis with Arabidopsis and rice. A total of 35 Aux/IAA and 39 ARF genes were identified in the Populus genome. Comparative phylogenetic analysis revealed that several Aux/IAA and ARF subgroups have differentially expanded or contracted between the two dicotyledonous plants. Activator ARF genes were found to be two fold-overrepresented in the Populus genome. PoptrIAA and PoptrARF gene families appear to have expanded due to high segmental and low tandem duplication events. Furthermore, expression studies showed that genes in the expanded PoptrIAA3 subgroup display differential expression. The present study examines the extent of conservation and divergence in the structure and evolution of Populus Aux/IAA and ARF gene families with respect to Arabidopsis and rice. The gene-family analysis reported here will be useful in conducting future functional genomics studies to understand how the molecular roles of these large gene families translate into a diversity of biologically meaningful auxin effects.
17986457	GreenPhylDB (http://greenphyl.cirad.fr) is a comprehensive platform designed to facilitate comparative functional genomics in Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana genomes. The main functions of GreenPhylDB are to assign O. sativa and A. thaliana sequences to gene families using a semi-automatic clustering procedure and to create 'orthologous' groups using a phylogenomic approach. To date, GreenPhylDB comprises the most complete list of plant gene families, which have been manually curated (6421 families). GreenPhylDB also contains all of the phylogenomic relationships computed for 4375 families. A total of 492 TAIR, 1903 InterPro and 981 KEGG families and subfamilies were manually curated using the clusters created with the TribeMCL software. GreenPhylDB integrates information from several other databases including UniProt, KEGG, InterPro, TAIR and TIGR. Several entry points can be used to display phylogenomic relationships for A. thaliana or O. sativa sequences, using TAIR, TIGR gene ID, family name, InterPro, gene alias, UniProt or protein/nucleic sequence. Finally, a powerful phylogenomics tool, GreenPhyl Ortholog Search Tool (GOST), was incorporated into GreenPhylDB to predict orthologous relationships between O. sativa/A. thaliana protein(s) and sequences from other plant species.
17987446	According to the information reported by the WHO, the genetically modified (GM) products that are currently on the international market have all passed risk assessments conducted by national authorities. These assessments have not indicated any risk to human health. In spite of this clear statement, it is quite amazing to note that the review articles published in international scientific journals during the current decade did not find, or the number was particularly small, references concerning human and animal toxicological/health risks studies on GM foods. In this paper, the scientific information concerning the potential toxicity of GM/transgenic plants using the Medline database is reviewed. Studies about the safety of the potential use of potatoes, corn, soybeans, rice, cucumber, tomatoes, sweet pepper, peas, and canola plants for food and feed were included. The number of references was surprisingly limited. Moreover, most published studies were not performed by the biotechnology companies that produce these products. This review can be concluded raising the following question: where is the scientific evidence showing that GM plants/food are toxicologically safe?
17988085	Previous investigations of plant responses to higher CO 2 levels were mostly based on physiological measurements and biochemical assays. In this study, a proteomic approach was employed to investigate plant response to higher CO 2 levels using rice as a model. Ten-day-old seedlings were progressively exposed to 760 ppm, 1140 ppm, and 1520 ppm CO 2 concentrations for 24 h each. The net photosynthesis rate (P n), stomatal conductance (G s), transpiration rate (E), and intercellular to ambient CO 2 concentration ratio (C i/ C a) were measured. P n, G s, and E showed a maximum increase at 1140 ppm CO 2, but further exposure to 1520 ppm for 24 h resulted in down regulation of these. Proteins extracted from leaves were subjected to 2-DE analysis, and 57 spots showing differential expression patterns, as detected by profile analysis, were identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS. Most of the proteins belonged to photosynthesis, carbon metabolism, and energy pathways. Several molecular chaperones and ascorbate peroxidase were also found to respond to higher CO 2 levels. Concomitant with the down regulation of P n and G s, the levels of enzymes of the regeneration phase of the Calvin cycle were decreased. Correlations between the protein profiles and the photosynthetic measurements at the three CO 2 levels were explored.
17988639	As an alternative approach to conventional allergen-specific immunotherapy, transgenic rice seed expressing a major house dust mite (HDM) allergen, Der p 1, was developed as an edible vaccine. The C-terminal KDEL-tagged Der p 1 allergen specifically accumulated in seed endosperm tissue under the control of the endosperm-specific GluB1 promoter. Der p 1 reached a maximum concentration of 58 microg/grain and was deposited in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived protein body I (PB-I). Plant-derived Der p 1 was posttranslationally modified with high-mannose-type glycan structures. Glycosylated Der p 1 displayed reduced IgE binding capacity in comparison with its unglycosylated counterpart in vitro. Our results indicate that transgenic Der p 1 rice seeds are a safe, potential oral delivery vaccine for the treatment of HDM allergy.
17988855	With genetically divergent cultivars and ecologically distinct wild progenitors, rice has posed a great challenge to the genetic and phylogenetic studies of the origin and evolution of crop species. A growing body of phylogenetic evidence suggested that the diverged genomic backgrounds of indica and japonica rice cultivars were derived independently from genetically distinct wild populations. However, a domestication gene, sh4, which was responsible for the reduction of grain shattering, seems to have originated only once, and it is now fixed in both cultivars. Two models have been proposed to reconcile these data. Whereas the 'combination model' emphasizes the importance of early introgression between independently domesticated cultivars, the 'snowballing model' emphasizes the importance of introgression from local populations of wild species into an ancestral domesticated population. In either case, the domestication of rice was a dynamic process.
17988885	The hydrolytic enzyme alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) is produced mainly in aleurone cells of germinating cereals, and the phytohormone gibberellin (GA) is essential for its induction. However, in rice (Oryza sativa L.), sulfuric acid (H(2)SO(4)) induces alpha-amylase production in aleurone tissue even in the absence of GA. Here, the pre-treatment of rice aleurone cells with H(2)SO(4) and incubation in water induced alpha-amylase activity, as if the cells had been incubated in GA solution.
17989873	Plant small non-coding RNAs including microRNAs (miRNAs), small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and trans-acting siRNAs, play important roles in modulating gene expression in cells. Here we isolated 21 novel endogenous small RNA molecules, ranging from 18 to 24 nucleotides, in Oryza sativa that can be mapped to 111 hairpin precursors. Further analysis indicated that most of these hairpin sequences originated from putative miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements, a major type of DNA transposon. Considering that miRNA is characteristic of hairpin-like precursor and plant endogenous siRNAs are often located at transposon regions, we hypothesized that our cloned small RNAs might represent the intermediate product in the evolutionary process between siRNAs and miRNAs. Northern blot analysis indicated that five of them were much more abundantly expressed in flower compared to other tissues, implying their potential function in inflorescence. In conclusion, our results enrich rice small RNA data and provide a meaningful perspective for small RNA annotation in plants.
17989953	Investigations to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) governing cooking quality traits including amylose content, gel consistency and gelatinization temperature (expressed by the alkali spread value) were conducted using a set of 241 RIL populations derived from an elite hybrid cross of "Zhenshan 97"x"Minghui 63" and their reciprocal backcrosses BC1F1 and BC2F1 populations in two environments. QTLs and QTLxenvironment interactions were analyzed by using the genetic model with endosperm and maternal effects and environmental interaction effects on quantitative traits of seed in cereal crops. The results suggested that a total of seven QTLs were associated with cooking quality of rice, which were subsequently mapped to chromosomes 1, 4 and 6. Six of these QTLs were also found to have environmental interaction effects.
17990013	The two-component signaling elements have been implicated in diverse cellular processes in plants. Earlier, we reported the identification, characterization and expression analysis of type-A response regulators in rice. In this study, we have comprehensively analyzed the expression profile of all the two-component signaling elements identified in rice at various stages of vegetative and reproductive development by employing microarray analysis. Most of the components are expressed in all the developmental stages analyzed. A few of these were found to be specifically expressed during certain stages of seed development, suggesting their role in embryo and endosperm development. In addition, some of these components express differentially under various abiotic stress conditions, indicating their involvement at various levels of hierarchy in abiotic stress signaling.
17990964	The NPR1 gene plays a pivotal role in systemic acquired resistance in plants. Its overexpression in Arabidopsis and rice results in increased disease resistance and elevated expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. An NPR1 homolog, MpNPR1-1, was cloned from apple (Malus x domestica) and overexpressed in two important apple cultivars, Galaxy and M26. Apple leaf pieces were transformed with the MpNPR1 cDNA under the control of the inducible Pin2 or constitutive Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV)35S promoter using Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Overexpression of MpNPR1 mRNA was shown by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Activation of some PR genes (PR2, PR5, and PR8) was observed. Resistance to fire blight was evaluated in a growth chamber by inoculation of the shoot tips of our own rooted 30-cm-tall plants with virulent strain Ea273 of Erwinia amylovora. Transformed Galaxy lines overexpressing MpNPR1 had 32 to 40% of shoot length infected, compared with 80% in control Galaxy plants. Transformed M26 lines overexpressing MpNPR1 under the control of the CaMV35S promoter also showed a significant reduction of disease compared with control M26 plants. Some MpNPR-overexpressing Galaxy lines also exhibited increased resistance to two important fungal pathogens of apple, Venturia inaequalis and Gymnosporangium juniperi-virginianae. Selected transformed lines have been propagated for field trials for disease resistance and fruit quality.
17990968	Partial resistance to leaf rust (Puccinia hordei G. H. Otth) in barley is a quantitative resistance that is not based on hypersensitivity. This resistance hampers haustorium formation, resulting in a long latency period in greenhouse tests. The three most consistent quantitative trait loci (QTL) uncovered in the L94 x 'Vada' mapping population were introgressed by marker-assisted backcrossing into the susceptible L94 background to obtain near-isogenic lines (NIL). We also developed the reciprocal Vada-NIL for the susceptibility alleles of those QTL. The QTL Rphq2 affected latency period of P. hordei more than the QTL Rphq3 and Rphq4. The NIL confirmed the contribution of Rphq2 to partial resistance by prolonging the latency period by 28 h on L94-Rphq2 and shortening the latency period by 23 h on Vada-rphq2. On the basis of flanking restriction fragment length polymorphism-based markers, Rphq2 appeared to be located near the telomeric end of the long arm of chromosome 2H, in a physical region of high recombination, making it the target QTL for map-based cloning. Microscopic observations on the NIL confirmed the nonhypersensitive nature of the resistance conferred by Rphq2. A high-resolution genetic map of the Rphq2 region was constructed using a population of 38 subNIL with overlapping L94 introgressions in Vada background across the region. Rphq2 mapped approximately 2 centimorgans (cM) proximal from the MlLa locus. By bulked segregant analysis and use of synteny with rice, we developed additional markers and fine-mapped Rphq2 to a genetic interval of 0.11 cM that corresponds to a stretch of sequence of, at most, 70 kb in rice. Analysis of this rice sequence revealed predicted genes encoding two proteins with unknown function, retrotransposon proteins, peroxidase proteins, and a protein similar to a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K). Possible homologs of those peroxidases and MAP3K in barley are candidates for the gene that contributes to partial resistance to P. hordei.
17991031	Methane oxidation is a key process controlling methane emission from anoxic habitats into the atmosphere. Methanotrophs, responsible for aerobic methane oxidation, do not only oxidize but also assimilate methane. Once assimilated, methane carbon may be utilized by other organisms. Here we report on a microbial food web in a rice field soil driven by methane. A thin layer of water-saturated rice field soil was incubated under opposing gradients of oxygen and (13)C-labelled methane. Bacterial and eukaryotic communities incorporating methane carbon were analysed by RNA-stable isotope probing (SIP). Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and cloning showed that methanotrophs were the most prominent group of bacteria incorporating methane carbon. In addition, a few Myxobacteria-related sequences were obtained from the 'heavy' rRNA fraction. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) targeting 18S rRNA detected various groups of protists in the 'heavy' rRNA fraction including naked amoeba (Lobosea and Heterolobosea), ciliates (Colpodea) and flagellates (Cercozoa). Incubation of soil under different methane concentrations in air resulted in the development of distinct protozoan communities. These results suggest that methane carbon is incorporated into non-methanotrophic pro- and microeukaryotes probably via grazing, and that methane oxidation is a shaping force of the microeukaryotic community depending on methane availability.
17991631	Using 26 chemically synthetic CLAVATA3/ESR (CLE) peptides, which correspond to the predicted products of the 31 Arabidopsis CLE genes, we investigated the CLE peptide function in Arabidopsis and rice. Treatment with some CLE peptides inhibited root elongation in rice as well as in Arabidopsis. It also reduced the size of the shoot apical meristem in Arabidopsis but not in rice. Database searches revealed 47 putative CLE genes in the rice genome and multiple CLE domains in some CLE genes, indicating diverse CLE function in these plants.
17992002	Until the middle of this century, fats and oils are the major raw material source for paints, coating and lubricating applications. These markets are completely taken over by petroleum based stocks due to their abundance and versatility. However, recent public awareness to use environmentally acceptable products that minimize pollution, are compatible to human health and readily biodegradable created opportunities for vegetable oils for application in paints and printing inks. The formulation of vegetable oil methyl ester based 'green' offset printing ink that reduces the volatile organic compounds (VOC) has been discussed in the present study. Methyl esters of rapeseed, soybean, rice bran and palm oil have been prepared and their physical properties have been measured and compared with standard petroleum feed stock. Varnishes were prepared with these esters and their properties are also compared with that of the petroleum based products. Rheological properties of the inks are also evaluated and compared with standard printing ink using petroleum based solvent. In general performance of the ester-based printing inks are comparable with that of the mineral oil based product. On the basis of tack stability and gloss, ester based inks are much superior than the mineral oil based products. In conclusion, a new non-volatile diluent for printing ink has been developed. The diluent is made from common vegetable oils like rapeseed, soybean, rice bran and palm oil, a renewable source that is environmental friendly. Vegetable oil esters offer a cost effective solution for mineral oil based printing ink to meet VOCs regulations.
1799290	Maltodextrins and hydrolysates of rice and corn flour of varying dextrose equivalents (DE) have been used as a carbon source for alpha-amylase enzyme production by Bacillus sp. TCRDC-25A. The rate and total enzyme production was higher in maltodextrin media than in cornstarch. The enzyme production increased with increase in DE up to 45%. The maximum enzyme production of 2390, 2450, and 2510 DUN/mL was obtained in cornstarch maltodextrins, and hydrolysates of corn and rice flours, respectively, in a bench-scale reactor in 40 h.
17993541	Transposon insertional mutagenesis is an effective alternative to T-DNA mutagenesis when transformation through tissue culture is inefficient as is the case for many crop species. When used as activation tags, transposons can be exploited to generate novel gain-of-function phenotypes without transformation and are of particular value in the study of polyploid plants where gene knockouts will not have phenotypes. We have developed an in cis-activation-tagging Ac-Ds transposon system in which a T-DNA vector carries a Dissociation (Ds) element containing 4x cauliflower mosaic virus enhancers along with the Activator (Ac) transposase gene. Stable Ds insertions were selected using green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein genes driven by promoters that are functional in maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa). The system has been tested in rice, where 638 stable Ds insertions were selected from an initial set of 26 primary transformants. By analysis of 311 flanking sequences mapped to the rice genome, we could demonstrate the wide distribution of the elements over the rice chromosomes. Enhanced expression of rice genes adjacent to Ds insertions was detected in the insertion lines using semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR method. The in cis-two-element vector system requires minimal number of primary transformants and eliminates the need for crossing, while the use of fluorescent markers instead of antibiotic or herbicide resistance increases the applicability to other plants and eliminates problems with escapes. Because Ac-Ds has been shown to transpose widely in the plant kingdom, the activation vector system developed in this study should be of utility more generally to other monocots.
17993543	The phosphatidylethanolamine-binding proteins (PEBPs) represent an ancient protein family found across the biosphere. In animals they are known to act as kinase and serine protease inhibitors controlling cell growth and differentiation. In plants the most extensively studied PEBP genes, the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and TERMINAL FLOWER1 (TFL1) genes, function, respectively, as a promoter and a repressor of the floral transition. Twenty-five maize (Zea mays) genes that encode PEBP-like proteins, likely the entire gene family, were identified and named Zea mays CENTRORADIALIS (ZCN), after the first described plant PEBP gene from Antirrhinum. The maize family is expanded relative to eudicots (typically six to eight genes) and rice (Oryza sativa; 19 genes). Genomic structures, map locations, and syntenous relationships with rice were determined for 24 of the maize ZCN genes. Phylogenetic analysis assigned the maize ZCN proteins to three major subfamilies: TFL1-like (six members), MOTHER OF FT AND TFL1-like (three), and FT-like (15). Expression analysis demonstrated transcription for at least 21 ZCN genes, many with developmentally specific patterns and some having alternatively spliced transcripts. Expression patterns and protein structural analysis identified maize candidates likely having conserved gene function of TFL1. Expression patterns and interaction of the ZCN8 protein with the floral activator DLF1 in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assay strongly supports that ZCN8 plays an orthologous FT function in maize. The expression of other ZCN genes in roots, kernels, and flowers implies their involvement in diverse developmental processes.
17994302	Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of three predominant grain crops, and its nuclear and organelle genomes have been sequenced. Following genome analysis revealed many exchanges of DNA sequences between the nuclear and organelle genomes. In this study, a total of 45 chloroplast DNA insertions more than 2 kb in length were detected in rice nuclear genome. A homologous recombination mechanism is expected for those chloroplast insertions with high similarity between their flanking sequences. Only five chloroplast insertions with high sequence similarity between two flanking sequences from an insertion were found in the 45 insertions, suggesting that rice might follow the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair of double-stranded breaks mechanism, which is suggested to be common to all eukaryotes. Our studies indicate that the most chloroplast insertions occurred at a nuclear region characterized by a sharp change of repetitive sequence density. One potential explanation is that regions such as this might be susceptible target sites or "hotspots" of DNA damage. Our results also suggest that the insertion of retrotransposon elements or non-chloroplast DNA into chloroplast DNA insertions may contribute significantly to their fragmentation process. Moreover, based on chloroplast insertions in nuclear genomes of two subspecies (indica and japonica) of cultivated rice, our results strongly suggest that they diverged during 0.06-0.22 million years ago.
17994696	Blended oils comprising coconut oil (CNO) and rice bran oil (RBO) or sesame oil (SESO) with saturated fatty acid/monounsaturated fatty acid/polyunsaturated fatty acid at a ratio of 1:1:1 and polyunsaturated/saturated ratio of 0.8-1 enriched with nutraceuticals were prepared. Blended oils (B) were subjected to interesterification reaction using sn-1,3 specific Lipase from Rhizomucor miehei. Fatty acid composition and nutraceutical contents of the blended oil were not affected by interesterification reaction. Male Wistar rats were fed with AIN-76 diet containing 10% fat from CNO, RBO, SESO, CNO+RBO blend (B), CNO+SESO(B), CNO+RBO interesterified (I), or CNO+SESO(I) for 60 days. Serum total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triacylglycerols (TAGs) were reduced by 23.8, 32.4, and 13.9%, respectively, in rats fed CNO+RBO(B) and by 20.5, 34.1, and 12.9%, respectively, in rats fed CNO+SESO(B) compared to rats given CNO. Rats fed interesterified oils showed a decrease in serum TC, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and TAGs in CNO+RBO(I) by 35, 49.1, and 23.2 and by 33.3, 47, and 19.8% in CNO+SESO(I), respectively, compared to rats given CNO. Compared to rats fed CNO+RBO blended oils, rats on CNO+RBO interesterified oil showed a further decrease of 14.6, 24.7, and 10% in TC, LDL-C, and TAG. Rats fed CNO+SESO interesterified oils showed a decrease in serum TC, LDL-C, and TAG by 16.2, 19.6, and 7.8%, respectively, compared to rats given blended oils of CNO+SESO (B). Liver lipid analysis also showed significant change in the TC and TAG concentration in rats fed blended and interesterified oils of CNO+RBO and CNO+SESO compared to the rats given CNO. The present study suggests that feeding fats containing blended oils with balanced fatty acids lowers serum and liver lipids. Interesterified oils prepared using Lipase have a further lowering effect on serum and liver lipids even though the fatty acid composition of blended and interesterified oils remained same. These studies indicated that the atherogenic potentials of a saturated fatty acid containing CNO can be significantly decreased by blending with an oil rich in unsaturated lipids in appropriate amounts and interesterification of blended oil.
17995195	The band structure of the prototypical charge-transfer insulator NiO is computed by using a combination of an ab initio band structure method and the dynamical mean-field theory with a quantum Monte-Carlo impurity solver. Employing a Hamiltonian which includes both Ni d and O p orbitals we find excellent agreement with the energy bands determined from angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. This brings an important progress in a long-standing problem of solid-state theory. Most notably we obtain the low-energy Zhang-Rice bands with strongly k-dependent orbital character discussed previously in the context of low-energy model theories.
1799527	The purpose of this paper is to examine the outcome of the increasing need and dependence on rice as an essential food, and the potential hazards of this trajectory in an interdependent world, and to propose the need for a supranational system to guide decisions made in areas of mutual dependency among nations. All rice producing countries of the world should be responsible for assuring sufficient quantities and qualities of rice for the world's population. However, there are hazards related to emphasis on rice yields associated with the neglect of overall nutritional needs and also the potential for environmental impact given the need for sustainable development. Scientific measurement and data analyses of interdependent supranational variables are needed to guide policies and practices to insure conditions for life will be favorable for people everywhere.
17995599	Rice bran is a byproduct obtained from the rice milling industry, and to arrest lipolysis caused by lipolytic enzyme, rice bran lipase (RBL) was inactivated by inhibitors such as polyphenols. This study describes the inhibition and interaction of enzyme with chlorogenic acid (CGA) and caffeic acid (CA). The inhibition of the enzyme was competitive in nature in both CGA and CA. The inhibition constant K(i) of the reaction was found to be 1.8 and 1.5 muM for CGA and CA, respectively. Fluorescence emission measurements indicated a decrease in the fluorescence emission intensity and a red shift in the emission maximum as these ligands concentrations are increased, indicating the minor changes in the tryptophan environment and the effect of binding that is stronger in the case of CA compared to CGA with RBL. Far UV-circular dichroic data suggest that there are no significant changes in the conformation of the enzyme as a result of binding of CGA or CA. The instability of the enzyme in the presence of these polyphenols has been indicated by decrease in apparent thermal transition temperatures of the enzyme from a control value of 60 degrees C as revealed by thermal denaturation measurements. These results demonstrate that both CGA and CA are inhibitors of RBL and bind to the enzyme through both hydrogen and hydrophobic interaction in bringing about inhibition with minor structural alterations. These inactivation phenomena of polyphenols that act as inhibitors on RBL can be utilized to prevent oxidation of the rice bran oil.
17995614	This study compared the antimicrobial effects of epsilon-polylysine (epsilon-PL) against Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella Typhimurium, and Listeria monocytogenes in 6 food extracts and in broth. The food extracts (10% (w/w) in distilled water) evaluated were fat-free and whole fat milk, beef, bologna, rice, and vegetables (50:50 ratio of broccoli and cauliflower). epsilon-PL was tested at 0.005% and 0.02% (w/v) against E. coli O157:H7 and L. monocytogenes, and 0.02% and 0.04% (w/v) against S. Typhimurium. The substrates were inoculated (5 log CFU/mL) and periodically analyzed for surviving populations during storage at 12 degrees C for 6 d. In general, all 3 pathogens reached 7 to 9 log CFU/mL within 2 d in control substrates (no epsilon-PL). Immediate bactericidal effects (P < 0.05) following exposure to epsilon-PL were obtained in the rice (all pathogens) and vegetable (E. coli O157:H7 and S. Typhimurium) extracts. During storage, antimicrobial effects of epsilon-PL were more pronounced in the food extracts than in the broth medium. The greatest antimicrobial activity for all 3 pathogens was obtained in the rice and vegetable extracts, where counts were reduced (P < 0.05) to below the detection limit (0.0 log CFU/mL) by one or both epsilon-PL concentrations tested. In the other food extracts (fat-free milk, whole fat milk, beef, and bologna), both epsilon-PL concentrations tested generally resulted in lower (P < 0.05) pathogen levels at the end of storage compared to initial counts, with better bactericidal effects exerted by the higher of the 2 epsilon-PL concentrations. Additional research is needed to explore the potential antimicrobial effects of epsilon-PL in real food systems.
17995619	The objectives of this study were to investigate the effects of steeping period (1, 11, and 21 d) and temperature (15, 25, and 35 degrees C) of waxy rice on the physical and sensory characteristics of Gangjung (a traditional Korean oil-puffed snack). Increasing the steeping period from 1 to 21 d and increasing the temperature from 15 to 35 degrees C markedly increased the oil absorption ratio of Gangjung. Textural analysis indicated that the number of peaks (representing the internal air cell characteristics) for Gangjung decreased in proportion with increasing steeping temperature and period, but that the hardness was affected significantly only by steeping period. Regarding the sensory characteristics of Gangjung, 5 appearance, 7 flavor, and 9 texture attributes were developed and evaluated by trained descriptive panelists. When the steeping temperature and the steeping period were increased, the degree of expansion, size, and degree of external roughness increased, while the strength of external color decreased. Regarding the flavor attributes, the intensity of sweetness and toasted carbohydrate food flavor tended to decrease with increasing steeping temperature and period, while sourness and butyric acid flavor, which are related to the fermentation of waxy rice, increased. Finally, the increased steeping temperature and period decreased the intensity of hardness, crispness, and toughness of Gangjung but increased the degree of fracture, degree of melting, and oiliness.
17995656	Indirectly puffed snacks were produced by an extrusion process with partially defatted (12% fat) peanut flour (30%, 40%, 50%) at different levels of screw speed (200, 300, 400 rpm) and feed rate (4, 5, 6 kg/h). Extrudates were dried to obtain half-products (11% to 12% MC) followed by puffing with deep-fat frying. The puffed snack prototypes were subjected to consumer acceptance test. Consumers rated higher than 6.0 (= like slightly) for all products produced within the experimental factor ranges on the attributes of crispness and texture, whereas consumer scores for appearance, color, flavor, and overall liking were lower than 6.0 for the product containing 50% peanut flour regardless of screw speed and feed rate. The product extruded with 50% peanut flour at screw speed of 400 rpm and feed rate of 6 kg/h received the lowest score of 5.5 on overall liking in a 9-point hedonic score. Predicted regression models indicated that feed rate had the largest effect on consumer attributes followed by peanut flour and screw speed. From the superimposed contour plot of individual contour plot of consumer attributes, the optimum region was identified as the area beginning at the 42.0% to 43.0% peanut flour and 4.0 kg/h feed rates, rising to a maximum at 45% peanut flour and 4.6 kg/h feed rates and decreasing to the 33.0% to 34.0% peanut flour and 6.0 kg/h feed rates. Verification confirmed the ability of predictive regression models to identify peanut-based snacks, which would be scored higher than 6.0 by consumer evaluation.
17995674	Rice cake was produced with a thermostable 4-alpha-glucanotransferase from Thermus scotoductus (TS alpha GTase). Starch molecular fine structure, texture, and retrogradation for the enzymatically prepared rice cake were investigated and compared to those for control rice cake. The amylose content in TS alpha GTase-treated rice cakes decreased, whereas branched and linear malto-oligosaccharides ranging from maltose to maltoheptaose increased slightly. The average molecular weight of the enzyme-treated rice starch in rice cake decreased as amylopectin macromolecules were cleaved and reorganized into small amylopectin clusters. The number of shorter side chains (degree of polymerization [DP] < 9) increased, whereas the number of longer side chains (DP > 10) decreased through the disproportionation reaction of TS alpha GTase. After 24 h of storage at 4 degrees C, the enzyme-treated samples demonstrated significantly lower melting enthalpy of retrograded starch (0.4 mJ/mg) compared to that of the control (1.4 mJ/mg). The results indicated that TS alpha GTase treatment effectively inhibited starch retrogradation in rice cakes. It is suggested that the reduction of amylose content, the rearrangement of amylopectin, and the production of malto-oligosaccharides caused by TS alpha GTase treatment are responsible for the ineffective molecular reassociation of rice starch in rice cake.
17995680	Two kinds of soy protein isolate, rice protein, whey protein isolate, albumen, bovine collagen hydrolysate, NaCl, and corn starch were used in this study. Solutions were prepared by mixing the powder and distilled water (1:8 ratio) and either H(2)SO(4) or NH(4)OH to obtain pH 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11. The solutions were dried to produce powders with different hydrogen ion concentrations and the powders were ground. Powders were coated nonelectrostatically and using negative and positive polarity corona electrostatically. There was no solution pH effect on transfer efficiency or adhesion for most powders. However, transfer efficiency and density of both of the soy protein isolates and corn starch changed with solution pH. Solution pH may have affected the density, which affected the transfer efficiency for these powders. Adhesion and cohesiveness of one of the soy protein isolates and corn starch also changed with solution pH. Solution pH may have affected the cohesiveness, which affected the adhesion for these powders. Negative and positive coronas produced the same results for most powders, with no solution pH effect, except for one of the soy protein isolates, rice protein, and corn starch. These powders accumulated on the electrode wires during negative corona electrostatic coating, reducing transfer efficiency and adhesion. This polarity effect was intermittent, implying it is due to tribocharging.
17995700	Nutritional assessment of transgenic crops used for human food and animal feed is an important aspect of safety evaluations. An insect-resistant rice (IRR) was generated by the stable insertion of sck, a modified cowpea trypsin inhibitor gene, and cry1Ac, encoding a crystal protein from Bacillus thuringiensis into the genome of a common variety of Chinese indica rice. The composition of the brown and milled rice grain from the resulted IRR line designated Liangyou Kefeng No. 6 was compared with that of the parental rice cultivar Liangyou 2186. Nutrients, including the proximates, amino acids, fatty acids, minerals, and vitamins, were measured. The antinutritive components such as phytic acid, lectin, and trypsin inhibitors were also examined. The data demonstrated that the nutritional quality of both the brown and milled rice grains from the transgenic line was substantially equivalent to that of the nontransgenic counterpart, and measured amounts of nutritional components fell within the range of values reported for other commercial lines.
17995762	Rice bread is a potential alternative to wheat bread for gluten-sensitive individuals. Incorporation of rice bran into bread made from white rice flour adds flavor but also phytic acid, which can reduce the bioavailability of minerals. Breads with varied amounts of defatted bran and yeast were prepared to determine their effects on the phytate and mineral contents of the bread. A completely randomized factorial design was used with bran levels of 3.7%, 7.3%, and 10.5% of the dry ingredients and yeast levels of 1.6%, 3.2%, and 4.7%. Increasing the amount of bran decreased the phytate degradation from 42% at the lowest level of bran to 10% at the highest, and the amount of yeast had no significant effect. The bran contributed substantial amounts of magnesium, iron, and zinc. Breads with the lowest level of bran had phytate-to-zinc molar ratios between 5 and 10, which suggest medium zinc bioavailability. Rice bread is a tasty and nutritious food that is a good dietary source of minerals for people who cannot tolerate wheat bread.
17995795	Rice bran oil (RBO) was modified through lipase-catalyzed glycerolysis. After 48 h reaction, the reactant (RBO-G, solved in hexane) containing 0.14 mg/mL of MAG, 0.19 mg/mL of DAG, and 0.93 mg/mL of TAG was obtained. Extending the reaction to 72 h resulted in 0.37 mg/mL of DAG with concomitant reduction in TAG (0.68 mg/mL). Two solvent fractionation methods, independent and sequential fractionation, were performed with acetone and hexane at 0, -8, -14, or -35 degrees C. The fraction with most unsaturated fatty acids (Sigma UFA) was liquid fraction from independent fractionation at -35 degrees C (-35 In) from hexane, showing 88.3%Sigma UFA content. Nevertheless, when yield (wt%) was considered, the highest amount of UFA was obtained from 0 In (liquid fraction from independent fractionation at 0 degrees C) with hexane, resulting in 82.3%Sigma UFA with 97.9 wt% recovery. Normal-phase HPLC was conducted for the compositional study of RBO-G. Overall, solid fractions from sequential fractionation at 0 degrees C (0 SeSo) and independent fractionation at -35 degrees C (-35 InSo) with hexane contained the high concentration of total MAG and DAG, ranging from 0.94 to 1.35 (mg/mL).
17995801	The feasibility of noninvasive visible and near infrared (VIS-NIR) spectroscopy for determining vintage year of Chinese rice wine was investigated. VIS-NIR spectra of 100 samples were collected in transmission mode in 600-mL square brown glass bottles by a fiber spectrometer system. Discriminant models were developed based on discriminant analysis (DA) together with raw, 1st, and 2nd derivative spectra. The concentration of alcohol content, total acid, and degrees Brix was determined to validate the VIS-NIR results. The calibration result for raw spectra was better than that for 1st and 2nd derivative spectra. The percentage of samples correctly classified for raw spectra was 97.1%. For the sample groups in the vintage years of 2002, 2003, and 2004, the samples were all correctly classified. And for the 2000 and 2001 sample groups, the percentage of samples correctly classified was 92.9%. In validation analysis, the samples were all correctly classified. The results demonstrated that the VIS-NIR spectroscopic technique could be used as a noninvasive and rapid method for predicting vintage year of bottled Chinese rice wine.
17995827	Certain reactions that occur in food during storage, such as nonenzymatic browning and lipid oxidation, form compounds that have been shown to be mutagenic. It is possible that over long storage periods, significant amounts of these products could be formed. Although some research has been published concerning the mutagenicity of foods due to processing or cooking, little research has been done regarding mutagenicity of foods stored for an extended time. The objective of this research was to determine the potential mutagenicity of white rice held in accelerated and long-term storage using the Ames Salmonella/microsome assay. Fresh long-grain white rice was packaged in foil laminate pouches and held at 60 degrees C for 18 wk. Rice stored for > 25 y in an oxygen-free environment at or below room temperature in size number 10 cans was obtained from residential storage. The standard plate-incorporation method was used to evaluate the mutagenic potential of all treatments using Salmonella typhimurium tester strains TA97a, TA98, TA100, and TA102. Samples were plated at 5 dilutions with and without rat liver S9 enzyme. A solvent control was also plated for each strain. Treatments yielding counts at least double the solvent control level were considered mutagenic. Plate counts for all treatments fell well below the required doubling of the solvent control value. White rice held in accelerated and long-term storage appears not to increase in mutagenic compounds as measured by the Ames assay, supporting its use for long-term storage purposes such as emergency preparedness and humanitarian food aid.
17995861	This study evaluated consumer acceptance and purchase intent of nonwheat butter cake formulations prepared with Thai jasmine rice flour. Three nonwheat rice butter cakes were prepared with varying amounts of powdered emulsifier (propylene glycol ester:diacetyl tartaric acid ester of monoglyceride, 8:2) at 0% (product A), 7.5% (product B), and 15% (product C) of the margarine content (15%) in the cake formulation. A commercial wheat-based butter cake served as the control. Consumers (n= 400) evaluated acceptability of 9 sensory attributes using a 9-point hedonic scale. Overall acceptance and purchase intent were determined with a binomial (yes/no) scale. At least 81% of consumers accepted products B and C, of which 42.1% and 47%, respectively, would purchase the products if commercially available. Product A was neither liked nor disliked with an overall liking score of 5.39. The butter cake products were differentiated by textural acceptability (overall texture, softness, and moistness) with a canonical correlation of 0.71 to 0.79. Overall liking and taste influenced overall acceptance and purchase intent. Odor influenced purchase intent (P= 0.0014), but not overall acceptance. The odds ratio of overall liking was 3.462 for purchase intent, indicating the probability of the product being purchased is 3.462 times higher (than not being purchased, P < 0.0001) with every 1-unit increase of the overall liking score. Based on the logit model, overall acceptance and purchase intent could be predicted with 89.3% and 83.3% accuracy, respectively. The study demonstrated feasibility of completely substituting wheat flour with Thai jasmine rice flour for production of butter cake products acceptable to American consumers.
17995866	Surface free fatty acid (FFA) on milled rice is a key factor in determining rice quality and acceptability to the brewing industry. Rice FFA oxidizes, causing off-flavors and odors to develop, compromising the brewing quality of milled rice. The effect of harvest moisture (13%, 16%, and 20%), harvester type (1688 Case and 9500 John Deere), and rice variety (Cocodrie and Bengal) on harvest damaged rough rice and milled rice surface FFA after drying to 12% moisture and 6 mo rough rice storage was examined. The Case harvester produced more damaged kernels than the John Deere harvester, but this was not reflected in surface FFA development. There were no significant FFA differences in variety or harvester type. Rice harvested at a higher moisture content (20%) produced significantly greater FFA values, with a peak near 0.1%, than rice harvested at lower moisture contents (13% and 16%), which had FFA values near 0.08%. Retention of bran by damaged kernels at high harvest moisture probably was responsible for promoting surface FFA development, but if bran was lost at lower harvest moistures, surface FFA, development was limited. Harvest moisture affected milled rice FFA, although rough rice was dried to 12% immediately after harvesting.
17995877	Thermal properties of conventionally and ohmically heated rice starch and rice flours at various frequencies and voltages were studied. There was an increase in gelatinization temperature for conventionally heated rice starches since they were pregelatinized and became more rigid due to starch-chain interactions. In addition, there was a decrease in enthalpy (energy needed) for conventionally and ohmically heated starches during gelatinization; thus, the samples required less energy for gelatinization during DSC analysis. Ohmically heated commercial starch showed the greatest decrease in enthalpy probably because of the greatest extent of pregelatinization through ohmic heating. Brown rice flour showed the greatest gelatinization temperature resulting from the delay of starch granule swelling by lipid and protein. Enthalpy of ohmically heated starches at 20 V/cm was the lowest, which was most likely due to the lower voltage resulting in a more complete pregelatinization from a longer heating time required to reach 100 degrees C. Ohmic treatment at 70 V/cm decreased onset gelatinization temperature of white flour; therefore, it produced rice flour that swelled faster, whereas the conventionally heated sample showed a better thermal resistance.
17995916	The quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with arsenic (As) accumulation in rice were mapped using a doubled haploid population established by anther culture of F1 plants from a cross between a Japonica cultivar CJ06 and an Indica cultivar TN1 (Oryza sativa). Four QTLs for arsenic (As) concentrations were detected in the map. At the seedling stage, one QTL was mapped on chromosome 2 for As concentrations in shoots with 24.4% phenotypic variance and one QTL for As concentrations in roots was detected on chromosome 3. At maturity, two QTLs for As concentrations in grains were found on chromosomes 6 and 8, with 26.3 and 35.2% phenotypic variance, respectively. No common loci were detected among these three traits. Interestingly, the QTL on chromosome 8 was found to be colocated for As concentrations in grain at maturity and shoot phosphorus (P) concentrations at seedling stage. These results provide an insight into the genetic basis of As uptake and accumulation in rice, and will be useful in identifying genes associated with As accumulation.
17996444	Rice bran oil was extracted by microwave-assisted extraction with isopropanol and hexane using a solvent-to-rice bran ratio of 3:1 (w/w). The experiments were done in triplicate at 40, 60, 80, 100, and 120 degrees C with a total extraction time of 15 min/sample. The oil components were separated by normal-phase HPLC and quantified with a fluorescence detector. The radical scavenging capability of the oil was tested with DPPH and was expressed as mumol Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Activity. The increase in total vitamin E with temperature from 40 to 120 degrees C was 59.63% for isopropanol and 342.01% for hexane. Isopropanol was the best solvent for the extraction of gamma-tocopherol and gamma-tocotrienol as compared with hexane for both microwave-assisted and conventional solvent extraction. Isopropanol was better for oil yield extraction at high temperatures. Samples extracted with isopropanol at 120 degrees C had higher antioxidant activity. No differences in oil yield, total vitamin E, and antioxidant activity of oil was noticed between the two methods (microwave-assisted and solvent extractions), at 40 degrees C. No degradation of alpha-tocopherol was noticed during the process.
17997216	In this study, adsorption of Cr(VI) onto the four low-cost biosorbents (Laminaria japonica, P. yezoensis Ueda, rice bran and wheat bran) was investigated depending on solution pH, contact time, adsorbent concentration and adsorption isotherms by employing batch adsorption technique. The adsorption capacities were significantly influenced by solution pH, with lower pH favoring higher Cr(VI) removal for various biosorbents. The ionic strength of NaCl was also observed to have a significant impact on the Cr(VI) adsorption due to the competition of Cl(-) in the aqueous solutions. The batch equilibrium data were correlated to Langmuir and Freundlich isotherms and the data fitted better to the Freundlich isotherm equation. The apparent thermodynamic parameters were calculated for each of the four biosorbents and the obtained numerical values showed that the Cr(VI) adsorption onto the various low-cost biosorbents is spontaneous, entropy-driven and endothermic processes. The batch kinetic data were correlated to the pseudo-first order and pseudo-second order models and the data fitted better to the pseudo-second order equation. An intraparticle diffusion model was applied to investigate the adsorption mechanisms. The adsorption capacities for various biosorbents studied in this work were inversely proportional to the adsorbent concentrations.
17997832	Plant hybrid proline-rich proteins (HyPRPs) are putative cell wall proteins consisting, usually, of a repetitive proline-rich (PR) N-terminal domain and a conserved eight-cysteine motif (8 CM) C-terminal domain. Understanding the evolutionary dynamics of HyPRPs might provide not only insight into their so far elusive function, but also a model for other large protein families in plants. We have performed a phylogenetic analysis of HyPRPs from seven plant species, including representatives of gymnosperms and both monocot and dicot angiosperms. Every species studied possesses a large family of 14-52 HyPRPs. Angiosperm HyPRPs exhibit signs of recent major diversification involving, at least in Arabidopsis and rice, several independent tandem gene multiplications. A distinct subfamily of relatively well-conserved C-type HyPRPs, often with long hydrophobic PR domains, has been identified. In most of gymnosperm (pine) HyPRPs, diversity appears within the C-type group while angiosperms have only a few of well-conserved C-type representatives. Atypical (glycine-rich or extremely short) N-terminal domains apparently evolved independently in multiple lineages of the HyPRP family, possibly via inversion or loss of sequences encoding proline-rich domains. Expression profiles of potato and Arabidopsis HyPRP genes exhibit instances of both overlapping and complementary organ distribution. The diversified non-C-type HyPRP genes from recently amplified chromosomal clusters in Arabidopsis often share their specialized expression profiles. C-type genes have broader expression patterns in both species (potato and Arabidopsis), although orthologous genes exhibit some differences. HyPRPs represent a dynamically evolving protein family apparently unique to seed plants. We suggest that ancestral HyPRPs with long proline-rich domains produced the current diversity through ongoing gene duplications accompanied by shortening, modification or loss of the proline-rich domains. Most of the diversity in gymnosperms and angiosperms originates from different branches of the HyPRP family. Rapid sequence diversification is consistent with only limited requirements for structure conservation and, together with high variability of gene expression patterns, limits the interpretation of any functional study focused on a single HyPRP gene or a couple of HYPRP genes in single plant species.
17998589	The nature of somaclonal variation at the nucleotide sequence level was studied in rice cv. Nipponbare. First, we investigated genomic variations by using 2 molecular marker systems: RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) and ISSR (inter-simple sequence repeat). This was followed by sequencing of selected bands that represented genomic variations, and pairwise sequence analysis taking advantage of the whole genome sequence of rice. In addition, transpositional activity of the active MITE, mPing, was analysed by locus-specific PCR amplifications. The 2-year-old calli and their regenerated plants, analysed with 24 RAPD and 20 ISSR primers, showed moderate levels of genomic variation (20.83% and 17.04%, respectively). To test whether DNA methylation plays a role in somaclonal variation, the calli were treated with 5-azacytidine, a chemical agent that reduces cytosine methylation by blocking the activity of DNA methyltransferase. Though dwarfism occurred in regenerants from treated calli (a hallmark of the drug treatment), there was only a slight increase in the frequency of somaclonal variation detected in the treated calli and their regenerated plants relative to untreated controls. The transposon mPing also remained immobile in both treated and untreated calli. Nevertheless, dendrograms constructed according to the Jaccard coefficient calculated by UPGMA of the ISSR bands revealed that the 5-azacytidine-treated and untreated somaclones were grouped into 2 distinct clusters, suggesting a possible indirect effect of the treatment on the genomic changes, depending on the marker used. Sequence analysis indicated a low level of variation (0.31%), with single-base-pair substitutions predominating.
17998590	Genetic diversity among 35 rice accessions, which included 19 landraces, 9 cultivars and 7 wild relatives, was investigated by using microsatellite (SSR) markers distributed across the rice genome. The mean number of alleles per locus was 4.86, showing 95.2% polymorphism and an average polymorphism information content of 0.707. Cluster analysis based on microsatellite allelic diversity clearly demarcated the landraces, cultivars and wild relatives into different groups. The allelic richness computed for the clusters indicated that genetic diversity was the highest among wild relatives (0.436), followed by landraces (0.356), and the lowest for cultivars. Allelic variability among the SSR markers was high enough to categorize cultivars, landraces and wild relatives of the rice germplasm, and to catalogue the genetic variability observed for future use. The results also suggested the necessity to introgress genes from landraces and wild relatives into cultivars, for cultivar improvement.
17999149	As a prerequisite for the map-based cloning of genes from common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.), which plays an important role in the domestication of cultivated rice (O. sativa L.), we constructed a median-insert size bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of the common wild rice isolate, YJCWR, collected from Yuanjiang, Yunnan Province, China. The library consists of 52,992 clones, with an average insert size of 50 kb, and all clones were pooled into 46 three-dimensional super-pools to facilitate library screening through the PCR method. Seventeen candidate clones were isolated by five markers and some clones containing putative target regions were sequenced. Furthermore, in analyzing the sequences of YJCWR, a retrotransposon, SZ-55, that might contribute to the evolution of Oryza was found.
17999151	The homeodomain leucine zipper (HD-Zip) genes encode transcription factors that have diverse functions in plant development and have often been implicated in stress adaptation. The HD-Zip genes are the most abundant group of homeobox (HB) genes in plants and do not occur in other eukaryotes. This paper describes the complete annotation of the HD-Zip families I, II and III from rice and compares these gene families with Arabidopsis in a phylogeny reconstruction. Orthologous pairs of rice and Arabidopsis HD-Zip genes were predicted based on neighbour joining and maximum parsimony (MP) trees with support of conserved intron-exon organization. Additionally, a number of HD-Zip genes appeared to be unique to rice. Searching of EST and cDNA databases and expression analysis using RT-PCR showed that 30 out of 31 predicted rice HD-Zip genes are expressed. Most HD-Zip genes were broadly expressed in mature plants and seedlings, but others showed more organ specific patterns. Like in Arabidopsis and other dicots, a subset of the rice HD-Zip I and II genes was found to be regulated by drought stress. We identified both drought-induced and drought-repressed HD-Zip genes and demonstrate that these genes are differentially regulated in drought-sensitive versus drought-tolerant rice cultivars. The drought-repressed HD-Zip family I gene, Oshox4, was selected for promoter-GUS analysis, showing that drought-responsiveness of Oshox4 is controlled by the promoter and that Oshox4 expression is predominantly vascular-specific. Loss-of-function analysis of Oshox4 revealed no specific phenotype, but overexpression analysis suggested a role for Oshox4 in elongation and maturation processes.
18000519	To assess the traditional postpartum practices, mother and child nutritional status and associated factors. A cross-sectional study in 41 randomly selected villages on the outskirts of Vientiane capital city, Lao PDR (Laos). 300 pairs of infants (< 6 months of age) and their mothers were enrolled. Information was collected about pregnancy, delivery and traditional practices through a standardized questionnaire. Dietary intake and food frequency were estimated using the 24 h recall method, calibrated bowls and FAO food composition tables. Mothers' and infants' anthropometry was assessed and multivariate analysis performed. Contrasting with a high antenatal care attendance (91%) and delivery under health professional supervision (72%), a high prevalence of traditional practices was found, including exposure to hot beds of embers (97%), use of traditional herb tea as the only beverage (95%) and restricted diets (90%). Twenty-five mothers (8.3%) were underweight. Mothers had insufficient intake of calories (55.6%), lipids (67.4%), iron (92.0%), vitamins A (99.3%) and C (45%), thiamin (96.6%) and calcium (96.6%). Chewed glutinous rice was given to infants as an early (mean 34.6, 95% CI:29.3-39.8 days) complementary food by 53.7% of mothers, and was associated with stunting in 10% children (OR=1.35, 95% CI:1.04-1.75). The high prevalence of traditional postpartum restricted diets and practices, and inadequate maternal nutritional intake in urban Laos, suggest that antenatal care may be an important opportunity to improve postpartum diets.
18000683	Centromeric retrotransposons (CR) are located almost exclusively at the centromeres of plant chromosomes. Analysis of the emerging Zea mays inbred B73 genome sequence revealed two novel subfamilies of CR elements of maize (CRM), bringing the total number of known CRM subfamilies to four. Orthologous subfamilies of each of these CRM subfamilies were discovered in the rice lineage, and the orthologous relationships were demonstrated with extensive phylogenetic analyses. The much higher number of CRs in maize versus Oryza sativa is due primarily to the recent expansion of the CRM1 subfamily in maize. At least one incomplete copy of a CRM1 homolog was found in O. sativa ssp. indica and O. officinalis, but no member of this subfamily could be detected in the finished O. sativa ssp. japonica genome, implying loss of this prolific subfamily in that subspecies. CRM2 and CRM3, as well as the corresponding rice subfamilies, have been recently active but are present in low numbers. CRM3 is a full-length element related to the non-autonomous CentA, which is the first described CRM. The oldest subfamily (CRM4), as well as its rice counterpart, appears to contain only inactive members that are not located in currently active centromeres. The abundance of active CR elements is correlated with chromosome size in the three plant genomes for which high quality genomic sequence is available, and the emerging picture of CR elements is one in which different subfamilies are active at different evolutionary times. We propose a model by which CR elements might influence chromosome and genome size.
18001030	Tricin (5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone) occurs in its glycosidic form in rice bran and other grass species such as wheat, barley, and maize. Tricin is considered sufficiently safe for clinical development as a cancer chemopreventive agent, therefore it can be used for cancer prevention. This study established a new method for the preparation of tricin from bamboo leaves as an alternative to traditional methods such as chemical synthesis via the Baker-Venkata-Raman reaction between acetylsyringic acid and phloroacetophenone. Tricin was prepared from an antioxidant product that was derived from bamboo leaves (AOB) by extraction with aqueous ethanol. A concentrated solution of this product was obtained and then processed by polystyrene (AB-8) resin column chromatography and preparative high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with 30% (v/v) acetonitrile in 1% (v/v) acetic acid as the mobile phase. The collected tricin-rich fraction was further sequentially purified by dialysis membrane separation and drowning-out crystallization methods. The purity was assessed by analytical HPLC with 25% (v/v) acetonitrile in 1% (v/v) acetic acid as the mobile phase, and the chemical confirmation was evaluated by infrared, mass, nuclear magnetic resonance, and ultraviolet spectroscopies. Tricin (3.09 g) was prepared from 174 g of a crude column chromatography fraction obtained from 5 L of AOB concentrated solution. The present method is appropriate for preparing quantities of pure tricin, which can be used for the quantification of tricin in various plant herbs and further for pharmaceutical/biomedical applications and evaluation.
18003669	Tolerance to boron (B) toxicity in cereals is known to be associated with reduced tissue accumulation of B. Genes from roots of B-tolerant cultivars of wheat and barley with high similarities to previously reported B efflux transporters from Arabidopsis and rice were cloned. Expression of these genes was strongly correlated with the ability of tolerant genotypes to lower the concentration of B in roots. The gene from barley located to chromosome 4. Backcross lines containing a B tolerance locus on chromosome 4 showed tolerance in proportion to the level of expression of the transporter gene, whereas those lacking the locus were sensitive to B and had very low levels of gene expression. The results are consistent with a widespread mechanism of tolerance to high B based on efflux of B from root cells.
18005094	Engineering durable nonspecific resistance to phytopathogens is one of the ultimate goals of plant breeding. However, most attempts to reach this goal fail as a result of rapid changes in pathogen populations and the sheer diversity of pathogen infection mechanisms. In this study, we show that the expression of a harpin-encoding gene (hrf1), derived from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, confers nonspecific resistance in rice to the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. Transgenic plants and their T1-T7 progenies were highly resistant to all major M. grisea races in rice-growing areas along the Yangtze River, China. The expression of defence-related genes was activated in resistant transgenic plants, and the formation of melanized appressoria, which is essential for foliar infection, was inhibited on plant leaves. These results suggest that harpins may offer new opportunities for generating broad-spectrum disease resistance in other crops.
18005315	To assess the risk of skin disease among farmers occupationally exposed to wastewater. One-year follow-up study with monthly assessments of wastewater exposure and skin disease in Nam Dinh, northern Vietnam, in two adjacent communes with contrasting levels of wastewater use. In each commune, 200 households were randomly selected. Of the 1103 individuals aged > or =15 years, 381 reported a skin problem at baseline or at any of the monthly visits, primarily dermatitis (eczema) and superficial fungal infections. Among the 874 subjects who were free from skin disease at baseline and who could be followed up > or =11 months, 183 developed a new skin disease (cumulative incidence 21%). Exposure to wastewater was a major risk factor for skin disease with a relative risk (RR) of 1.89 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.39-2.57] in multivariable analysis. Other risk factors for skin disease were involvement in agriculture in general (RR = 2.59, 95% CI 1.11-6.02), flower cultivation (RR = 1.36, 95% CI 1.01-1.83), vegetable farming (RR = 1.47, 95% CI 1.04-2.08), and a history of eczema (RR = 1.47, 95% CI 1.05-2.05). Exposure to wastewater is a major risk factor for skin disease. In future studies, an attempt should be made to link specific chemical or biological agents in the wastewater to specific skin diseases.
18006114	The aim of the present study was to develop a preliminary version of the Food Craving Inventory for Japanese (FCI-J) and to investigate the phenomenon of food craving among Japanese females. One hundred and eighty-five female college students completed newly developed FCI-J. Factor analysis yielded conceptual factors that were interpreted as sweets, snacks, western foods, sushi, and rice. Test-retest and internal consistency analyses indicated a good reliability for both total score and score of subscales. In addition, results showed that the FCI-J has a good content, concurrent, construct, and discriminant validity. It is noteworthy that "rice craving" may be characteristic among Asian rice consuming countries, and that there are considerable "sushi cravers" in Japan. These findings suggested that the craving for some kind of food is influenced by the tradition of food products and cultures.
1800618	The aim of this study was to evaluate the public opinion towards the possible replacement of ration cards by cash payment and to investigate the effect of partial termination of food price subsidy programme on food consumption by families from different income brackets. A purposive sample of 300 families from Alexandria Governorates were interviewed to assess the attitude of the consumer towards the possible termination of current food subsidy programme. After one year, during which the subsidy programme was reduced, a follow up sample of 240 were interviewed. The results show that a large proportion of the families prefer the continuation of the current programme (80-81.2%), meanwhile, around 90% of them believed that subsidized foods do not reach the target group. The data show that subsidized meat and poultry are consumed by high income families while frozen subsidized fish was mostly consumed by poor families. The partial termination of the subsidy programme forced the families to reduce their consumption from sugar, tea, oil, and rice. During the second phase of the study. However the results show that high income families were least affected by the partial termination of the subsidy programme.
18006228	A biomatrix was prepared from rice husk, a lignocellulosic waste from agro-industry, for the removal of several heavy metals as a function of pH and metal concentrations in single and mixed solutions. The biomatrix was characterized using scanning electron microscope and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, which indicated the presence of several functional groups for binding metal ions. Different experimental approaches were applied to show mechanistic aspects, especially the role of calcium and magnesium present in the biomatrix in ion exchange mechanism. The ultimate maximum adsorption capacity obtained from the Langmuir isotherm increases in the order (mmol/g): Ni (0.094), Zn (0.124), Cd (0.149), Mn (0.151), Co (0.162), Cu (0.172), Hg (0.18) and Pb (0.28). The sorption of Cr(III) onto biomatrix at pH 2 was 1.0 mmol/g. Speciation of chromium, cadmium and mercury loaded on the biomatrix was determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The biomatrix has adsorption capacity comparable or greater to other reported sorbents.
18006362	The nutrients in the human diet ultimately come from plants. However, all our major food crops lack certain essential vitamins and minerals. Although a varied diet provides adequate nutrition, much of the human population, particularly in developing countries, relies on staple crops, such as rice or maize, which does not provide the full complement of essential nutrients. Malnutrition is a significant public health issue in most of the developing world. One way to address this problem is through the enhancement of staple crops to increase their essential nutrient content. Here, we review the current strategies for the biofortification of crops, including mineral fertilization and conventional breeding but focusing on transgenic approaches which offer the most rapid way to develop high-nutrient commercial cultivars.
18006363	The molecular basis of root formation and growth is being analyzed in more and more detail in the dicot model organism Arabidopsis. However, considerable progress has also been made in the molecular and genetic dissection of root system development in the monocot species rice and maize. This review will highlight some recent molecular data that allow for the comparison of cereal and Arabidopsis root development. Members of the COBRA, GRAS, and LOB domain gene families and a gene encoding a subunit of the exocyst complex are associated with root development. Analyses of these genes revealed some common and distinct molecular principles and functions in cereal versus Arabidopsis root formation.
18006520	We have cloned a chitinase cDNA (MpChi-1) from plantain (Musa paradisiacal L) using rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) according to a sequence fragment which we had cloned using the suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) technique. The MpChi-1 encodes a protein of 326 amino acids and belongs to acidic chitinase class Ib subfamily. MpChi-1 shares high identity with rice endochitinase (XP_468714) and different each other only at three residues. Homology modelling indicated these three substitutions would not change the configuration of the activity site of the enzyme. We have expressed recombinant MpChi-1 and purified by ammonium sulphate precipitation and preparative reversed phase HPLC. The recombinant protein could hydrolyse chitin and inhibit the growth of the Gloeosporium musarum Cke and Massee in vitro. Northern blot revealed that the MpChi-1 transcripts rapidly after inoculation with G. musarum and maximum mRNA accumulation reached at 48 h. Jasmonic acid (JA) and salicylic acid (SA) could induce MpChi-1 expression, while mechanical wounding, silver nitrate and osmotic stress stimulated only a slight accumulation of MpChi-1 transcripts. Abscisic acid (ABA) could induce MpChi-1 transcript. These results suggest the MpChi-1 plays important role in the events of the hypersensitive reaction (HR).
18006603	Celiac disease is a gluten intolerance caused by a T-cell response against human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DQ2 and DQ8-bound gluten peptides. Some subjects experience gastrointestinal symptoms in the absence of villous atrophy. Here we investigate the potential mechanisms of gut dysfunction in gluten-sensitive HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice. HLA-DQ8 mice were sensitized and gavaged with gliadin 3x/wk for 3 wk (G/G). Controls included 1) nonsensitized mice gavaged with rice (C); 2) gliadin-sensitized mice gavaged with rice (G/R); and 3) BSA-sensitized mice gavaged with BSA (BSA/BSA). CD3(+) intraepithelial lymphocyte, macrophage, and FOX-P3-positive cell counts were determined. Acetylcholine release, small intestinal contractility, and epithelial ion transport were measured. Gut function was investigated after gluten withdrawal and in HLA-DQ6 mice. Intestinal atrophy was not observed in G/G mice. Recruitment of intraepithelial lymphocyte, macrophages, and FOX-P3+ cells were observed in G/G, but not in C, G/R, or BSA/BSA mice. This was paralleled by increased acetylcholine release from the myenteric plexus, muscle hypercontractility, and increased active ion transport in G/G mice. Changes in muscle contractility normalized in DQ8 mice after a gluten withdrawal. HLA-DQ6 controls did not exhibit the abnormalities in gut function observed in DQ8 mice. Gluten sensitivity in HLA-DQ8 mice induces immune activation in the absence of intestinal atrophy. This is associated with cholinergic dysfunction and a prosecretory state that may lead to altered water movements and dysmotility. The results provide a mechanism by which gluten could induce gut dysfunction in patients with a genetic predisposition but without fully evolved celiac disease.
1801086	It was determined that M. cornuarietis, a mollusk which has been used as agent for the biological control of the schistosomiasis hosts, may be a plague for rice fields. Each mollusk can consume 0.3 g of this plant in 24 hours, accounting for the destruction of 0.015 m2 of a rice field. On the other hand, it was observed that B. glabrata shows preference for the consumption of M. cornuarietis faeces. This fact favors the vector's growth and reproduction rate and at the same time decreases its mortality.
18015342
1801735	Two cystatins occur in mature seeds of the rice, Oryza sativa L. japonica, which are named oryzacystatin I (OC-I) and oryzacystatin II (OC-II). These are highly homologous to each other and are significantly homologous to cystatin superfamily members of animal origin, especially to family-2 cystatins. However, both lack disulfide bonds as in the case of family-1 cystatins (stefins). Each of OC-I and OC-II thus seems to be chimerical of family-1 and family-2 cystatins, and we propose that a new category such as "phytocystatin" be opened for these cystatins of plant origin. For specificity it was observed that OC-I inhibits papain 100 times more efficiently than cathepsin H, whereas, OC-II inhibits cathepsin H 100 times more efficiently than papain. A cysteine proteinase, named oryzain alpha, exists in germinating rice seeds. cDNA cloning studies have disclosed that two other related species, named oryzain beta and gamma, are also present. In respect to the amino acid sequence, oryzain alpha and beta are homologous to papain and oryzain gamma is homologous to cathepsin H. These observations suggest the possibility that either or both of oryzain alpha and beta are target enzymes of OC-I and oryzain gamma is a target enzyme of OC-II.
18018367	National programs for vitamin A supplementation and iodization of the salt supply were launched and sustained with high (but not universal) coverage in most of the countries studied. Iron programs (requiring daily or weekly supplementation, in contrast to vitamin A), which were distributed mainly through antenatal care, had lower coverage and acceptance. Constraints to supplementation were supply, awareness of health staff and communities, and (for vitamin A) insecurity with phasing out of the national immunization days, which have been a major vehicle for distribution. Administration to women postpartum becomes even more important and needs greater coverage. Iodized salt programs have expanded well, with good interagency collaboration and local management, supported by legislation (which may need strengthening); constraints remain in terms of too many salt producers, inadequate quality, import issues, and prices. More integrated, multifaceted programs are needed, with priority to developing and implementing fortification--especially in finding effective ways to iron-fortify rice. Data are lacking, with fewer surveys once programs start, constraining monitoring and program control and adaptation. Nonetheless, interventions appear to have gone to scale remarkably successfully.
18018636
18018641
18021190	The feasibility of using the FLP/FRT site-specific recombination system in rice for genome engineering was evaluated. Transgenic rice plants expressing the FLP recombinase were crossed with plants harbouring the kanamycin resistance gene (neomycin phosphotransferase II, nptII) flanked by FRT sites, which also served to separate the corn ubiquitin promoter from a promoterless gusA. Hybrid progeny were tested for excision of the nptII gene and the positioning of the ubiquitin promoter proximal to gusA. While the hybrid progeny from various crosses exhibited beta-glucuronidase (GUS) expression, the progeny of selfed parental rice plants did not show detectable GUS activity. Despite the variable GUS expression and incomplete recombination displayed in hybrids from some crosses, uniform GUS staining and complete recombination were observed in hybrids from other crosses. The recombined locus was shown to be stably inherited by the progeny. These data demonstrate the operation of FLP recombinase in catalysing excisional DNA recombination in rice, and confirm that the FLP/FRT recombination system functions effectively in the cereal crop rice. Transgenic rice lines expressing active FLP recombinase generated in this study provide foundational stock material, thus facilitating the future application and development of the FLP/FRT system in rice genetic improvement.
18021349	The forelimb muscles of the two semifossorial species of Tenrecidae (Oryzoryctinae: common rice tenrec; and Tenrecinae: streaked tenrec) were compared macroscopically with those of the unspecialized terrestrial-arboreal species, the Talazac long-tailed tenrec. The structure of the hand was also observed using three-dimensional reconstructed images from computed tomography data. The two semifossorial species had similar muscle weight ratios in the lateral and long heads of M. triceps brachii and M. teres major. A similar hand skeleton structure (in which the second, third and fourth metacarpals and phalanges act as a digging apparatus) was observed in both species. Our observations confirm that both these species have muscular-skeletal adaptations supporting fossorial locomotion. As each species belongs to a monophyletic subfamily within the Tenrecidae isolated in Madagascar, such semifossorial adaptations are assumed to have evolved convergently.
18022281	A rice proteinase inhibitor (PI) gene OsPI8-1 was identified. Belonging to the potato inhibitor I family, this gene contains a 201bp coding region with no introns and encodes a deduced protein of 66 amino acids which holds a PI domain. There are two uniform gene copies, OsPI8-1a and OsPI8-1b, with direct-repeat arrangement and an interval span of 13 kb on rice chromosome 8, corresponding to the site of BAC clone P0528B09 (Accession No. AP004703). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays showed that both OsPI8-1a and OsPI8-1b can be expressed in wild-type 'Zhonghua No.11'. To investigate the physiological functions of OsPI8-1 in plant development, we analyzed the expression patterns of the reporter gene beta-glucuronidase (GUS) driven by OsPI8-1 promoter at different developmental stages and tissues. It was demonstrated that no GUS signals were detected in the roots. Despite that very high GUS expression was examined in the shoot apical meristem, no detectable GUS activity in the developmental domains of leaf primordium was observed. OsPI8-1 promoter showed an obvious wound-induced response in mature leaves. Little GUS activity was detected in young nodes and internodes at the seedling stage, but active GUS expression was observed near the nodes on mature culms. In the developing stage of the anther, GUS signal was specifically located in the middle layer and the endothecium between the epidermis and tapetum. In the germinating seed, GUS expression was gradually accumulated in the side of scutellar epithelium close to the embryo. These tissue-specific accumulations suggested that OsPI8-1 has multiple endogenous roles on developmental regulation. In this report, the inhibitor function of OsPI8-1 to proteolytic enzymes and the potential influence of their poise on plant development (such as seed germination, tapetum degeneration, programmed cell death, etc.) were discussed.
1802230	In study A, consisting of four groups of six subjects each, we measured the differences in pH, viscosity, and osmolality of in vivo and in vitro samples of steamed rice, congee, and 16.6 and 5% glucose solutions in 300-ml volumes. The physical properties of starch meals in vivo are different from in vitro samples, which may account for discrepancies among previous studies of glucose tolerance and gastric emptying. In study B, test meals of 300 ml of steamed rice, congee, 16.6% glucose, 5% glucose or a combined congee-metoclopramide meal (in which 10 mg metoclopramide i.v. was given 15 min before the congee was eaten) were given to seven subjects. Blood samples were taken, and the serum glucose and insulin responses were determined. The meals were labeled with 99mTc pentetic acid microcapsules, and the gastric emptying rates were calculated. Metoclopramide increased the gastric emptying of congee to that approaching steamed rice. The incremental glucose response to steamed rice was greater than that to congee, but the incremental insulin response was greatest with congee plus metoclopramide. The physical form of the food influences the blood glucose and insulin response and the rate of gastric emptying. The gastric emptying rate may be the major mechanism for the increased insulin response.
18022404	In this work, a novel sol-gel coating of N-(2-aminoethyl)-3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane (AAPTS)-silica was prepared for capillary microextraction (CME) of trace Cu, Zn, Ni, Hg and Cd followed by on-line ICP-MS detection. This organic-inorganic hybrid coating was in situ created on the inner walls of fused silica capillary using a sol solution containing tetramethoxysilane (TMOS) as a precursor, AAPTS as a co-precursor, ethanol as the solvent and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) as the template. The structure of the capillary coating was characterized by IR, SEM and TEM. Various experimental parameters affecting capillary microextraction of the target analytes have been investigated carefully, and the optimized extraction conditions were established. It was found that the AAPTS-silica coating with a terminal functional group of -NH-CH2-CH2-NH2 exhibited a high selectivity towards the selected metal ions. With a consumption of 1.0 mL sample solution and 80 microL eluent, the detection limits (3sigma) were found to be 1.8, 11.8, 1.1, 3.3 and 1.4 pg mL(-1) for Cu, Zn, Ni, Hg and Cd, respectively. A sampling frequency of 14 h(-1) and an enrichment factor of 12.5 were obtained under the optimized experimental conditions. The relative standard deviations (RSDs) for the target analytes were less than 3.6% (C = 1 ng mL(-1), n = 7, sample volume = 1 mL). Two certified reference materials of NIES No.10-c rice flour and BCR-CRM 278 mussel flesh were analyzed to validate the proposed method, and the determined values were in good agreement with the certified values. The developed method had also been applied to the determination of trace target elements in human hair, serum and urine, and the recoveries for the spiked samples were in the range of 89.2-101.8%. The AAPTS-silica coated capillary showed an excellent pH resistance and could be used for more than 120 times without decreasing adsorption efficiency.
18022655	To identify the effects of auxin on rice root formation, proteins induced by exogenous addition of auxin to rice seedlings were analyzed by a proteomic approach. Root formation by rice seedlings was promoted by 0.45microM 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and repressed by 60microM p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (PCIB). Proteins extracted from the basal part of leaf sheaths of rice seedlings treated with 2,4-D or PCIB for 48h were labeled with Cy3 and Cy5, and separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Out of nine proteins up-regulated by 2,4-D and down-regulated by PCIB, five proteins showing significant difference in abundance were used for expression analysis at the transcript abundance level. Transcript abundance of the mitochondrial complex I subunit slightly increased with 2,4-D treatment and were repressed by PCIB. The transcript abundance of EF-1beta', myosin heavy chain and mitochondrial [Mn]SOD increased with 2,4-D treatment but did not decrease with PCIB. The transcript abundance of aldehyde dehydrogenase was not effected by 2,4-D or PCIB. These results indicate that mitochondrial complex I subunit is part of the downstream signal cascade of PCIB, whereas myosin heavy chain, mitochondrial [Mn]SOD and EF-1beta' are involved in the 2,4-D signal cascade but are probably upstream of PCIB.
18022940	The eukaryotic chromatin/chromosome stores genomic information, controls genetic material distribution, and plays an essential role in the establishment and maintenance of spatial and temporal gene expression profile. Despite over a century of research, the protein composition and higher level structure of chromatin still remain obscure, particularly in plants. In this report, we have developed a protocol for chromatin purification from rice suspension cells and examined proteins copurified with chromatin using both 2-DE gel and shotgun approaches. Nine hundred seventy-two distinct protein spots have been resolved on 2-DE gels and 509 proteins have been identified by MALDI-MS/MS following gel excision, which correspond to 269 unique proteins. When the chromatin copurified proteins are examined using shotgun method, a large number of histone variants in addition to the four common core histones have been identified. Other proteins identified include nucleosome assembly proteins, high mobility group proteins, histone modification proteins, transcription factors, and a large number of hypothetical and function unknown proteins. Furthermore, putative phosphoproteins copurified with chromatin have been examined using Pro-Q Diamond phosphoprotein stain and followed by MALDI-MS/MS. Our studies have provided valued new insight into chromatin composition in plants.
18023428	The standard biogenic volatile organic compound (BVOC) emissions from 10 Japanese plant species (Quercus serrata, Quercus crispula, Fagus crenata, Quercus acutissima Carruthers, Quercus glauca, Quercus myrsinaefolia, Cryptomeria japonica, Chamaecyparis obtusa, Pinus densiflora, and rice [Oryza sativa]) were measured. These species were selected due to their abundance in the estimated domain (47,000 km(2)) of the Kinki region. BVOC emission experiments were conducted in a growth chamber where temperature and light intensity can be controlled. Temperature was set at the average summer temperature in Osaka and at 5 degrees C above average. Light intensity was set at 1000, 335, and 0 micromol m(-2)s(-1) during day time. The amount of BVOC emission was high around noon due to the rise of ambient temperature. It was also found that the total emission rates and compositions of BVOC varied significantly among the plant species. Q. serrata, Q. crispula, F. crenata, Q. acutissima Carruthers, Q. glauca, and Q. myrsinaefolia emitted isoprene and showed emission dependence on light intensity and temperature. C. japonica, P. densiflora, C. obtusa, and O. sativa emitted monoterpenes and also showed emission dependence on temperature; however, only C. japonica and P. densiflora showed emission dependence on light intensity. Using BVOC emissions data from 10 plant species and forest data, BVOC emission potential maps were made. The emission of isoprene and monoterpenes from the Kinki region were estimated to be 596 and 54 ton h(-1), respectively. Seasonal and diurnal variations of BVOC emissions potential were also estimated. Of note, though the amount of monoterpenes from O. sativa is small, it contributes approximately 5% to the total monoterpene emissions due to the huge land area covered by paddy fields.
18023795	High-molecular-weight peptides (approximately 10-30 kDa) generated in a digest of steamed rice grains by sake koji enzymes were characterized. Among 13 major spots resolved by 2-D gel electrophoresis, 12 contained peptides having N-termini of rice glutelin as determined by mass fingerprinting analysis and/or MS/MS. The source of these peptides was presumed to be the acidic subunit of rice glutelin. An addition of up to 25% glucose in the digestion of an isolated rice protein body induced the accumulation of these peptides. The level of accumulation of these peptides in the digest of 70% polished rice samples correlated well with the crude protein content of the rice grains. The degree of accumulation of these peptides in Yamadanishiki and low-polish-rate rice was low, whereas that observed in 90% polished rice samples was extremely low.
18023807	The effects of temperature on microbial communities and mass reduction in composting were studied by comparing the mesophilic process with the thermophilic process of cattle manure-rice straw composting for 21 d. The respiratory quinone content (indicator of microbial biomass) continuously increased in the mesophilic process, but in the thermophilic process, it was much higher after 3 d and then decreased to the same level as that in the mesophilic process after 21 d. The diversity of quinones increased continuously in both the mesophilic and thermophilic processes with a higher value in the thermophilic process. The mesophilic microbial community was characterized by the predominance of ubiquinones and menaquinone (MK-8), which correspond to Proteobacteria and fungi. The thermophilic microbial community was characterized by the dominance of MK-7 in the initial period, and increases in the amounts of menaquinones with long and partially-saturated side chains in the later period, corresponding to Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, respectively. DNA fingerprinting by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S ribosomal RNA genes also confirmed that diversity of microbial communities increased but differently in the two processes. Our results suggest that mesophilic composting is more effective for mass reduction in cattle manure composting than thermophilic composting because of the higher decomposition activity of the microbial community characterized by the predominance of Proteobacteria and fungi.
18023846	A green-house study was conducted in late 2005 to investigate the aging behavior of p,p'-DDE in two types of soil, Hydragric Anthrosols (An) and Hydragric Acrisols (Ac), according to the World Reference Base (WRB) [FAO/ISRIC/ISSS. 1998. World reference base for soil resources. World soil resources reports, Rome. p. 87]. Paddy rice and dry rice were grown in submerged paddy soils and non-submerged upland soils, respectively. The concentration of extractable p,p'-DDE in fresh DDE-spiked soils was 746.2ngg(-1). During the first few weeks of the experiment, the extractability of p,p'-DDE became increasingly low as the aging period prolonged. However, certain amount of p,p'-DDE that had been captured by soil minerals and organic matter (OM) could be released and became extractable in the later period. The extractability of p,p'-DDE in submerged soils was significantly lower than that in non-submerged soil, because flooding could increase the binding of pollutants to soil particles. The plantation of both dry rice and paddy rice slowed down the aging process of p,p'-DDE. After one month's growth of rice, p,p'-DDE bound to soil particles was released and became extractable. The OM and silt content of An are higher than that of Ac, resulting in more bound residues and relative lower extractability of p,p'-DDE in An. In addition, the extractability of p,p'-DDE could be reduced by the addition of rice straw to soils.
18024592	At the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, one-half of the rice-water stool samples that were culture-positive for Vibrio cholerae did not contain motile V. cholerae by standard darkfield microscopy and were defined as darkfield-negative (DF(-)). We evaluated the host and microbial factors associated with DF status, as well as the impact of DF status on transmission. Viable counts of V. cholerae in DF(-) stools were three logs lower than in DF(+) stools, although DF(-) and DF(+) stools had similar direct counts of V. cholerae by microscopy. In DF(-) samples, non-V. cholerae bacteria outnumbered V. cholerae 10:1. Lytic V. cholerae bacteriophage were present in 90% of DF(-) samples compared with 35% of DF(+) samples, suggesting that bacteriophage may limit culture-positive patients from producing DF(+) stools. V. cholerae in DF(-) and DF(+) samples were found both planktonically and in distinct nonplanktonic populations; the distribution of organisms between these compartments did not differ appreciably between DF(-) and DF(+) stools. This biology may impact transmission because epidemiological data suggested that household contacts of a DF(+) index case were at greater risk of infection with V. cholerae. We propose a model in which V. cholerae multiply in the small intestine to produce a fluid niche that is dominated by V. cholerae. If lytic phage are present, viable counts of V. cholerae drop, stools become DF(-), other microorganisms bloom, and cholera transmission is reduced.
18025467	Iron is essential for most living organisms and is often the major limiting nutrient for normal growth. Plants induce iron utilization systems under conditions of low iron availability, but the molecular mechanisms of gene regulation under iron deficiency remain largely unknown. We identified the rice transcription factor IDEF1, which specifically binds the iron deficiency-responsive cis-acting element IDE1. IDEF1 belongs to an uncharacterized branch of the plant-specific transcription factor family ABI3/VP1 and exhibits the sequence recognition property of efficiently binding to the CATGC sequence within IDE1. IDEF1 transcripts are constitutively present in rice roots and leaves. Transgenic tobacco plants expressing IDEF1 under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter transactivate IDE1-mediated expression only in iron-deficient roots. Transgenic rice plants expressing an introduced IDEF1 exhibit substantial tolerance to iron deficiency in both hydroponic culture and calcareous soil. IDEF1 overexpression leads to the enhanced expression of the iron deficiency-induced transcription factor gene OsIRO2, suggesting the presence of a sequential gene regulatory network. These findings reveal cis element/trans factor interactions that are functionally linked to the iron deficiency response. Manipulation of IDEF1 also provides another approach for producing crops tolerant of iron deficiency to enhance food and biomass production in calcareous soils.
18026850	The purpose of this research is to identify the probable mitochondrial factor associated with cytoplasmic male sterility (cms) by comparative analysis of cms and its isogenic maintainer lines in stem mustards. Dramatic variations in the morphology of floral organs were observed in cms stem mustard. Mitochondrial atpA gene was shown to be altered in cms compared with that in its maintainer line, of which mitochondrial atpA gene from its maintainer line was sequenced to encode 507 amino acids. It was indicative of high homology with mitochondrial atpA genes from other species, even as high as 94% in similarity with Oryza sativa in terms of amino acid constituents. However, only 429 amino acids were deduced in cms showing 83% similarity with atpA gene from its maintainer line. Two copies were observed in its maintainer line, but only one was found in cms. Such numerous differences of mitochondrial atpA gene between cms and its maintainer lines may not be the results of evolutionary divergence but the rearrangements of mitochondria. Expression of mitochondrial atpA gene was shown to be down-regulated in cms by using Northern blot. Consequently, mitochondrial ATP synthesis was severely decreased more than one fold in cms stem mustard indicating deficiency in mitochondrial ATP synthesis in this type of cms. Therefore, we deduced that mitochondrial atpA gene altered in cms could be associated with male-sterility in this type of cms.
18027041	Esophageal dilation can occur after laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB). There are few studies in the literature that describe the outcomes of patients with esophageal dilation. The aim of this article is to evaluate weight loss and symptomatic outcome in patients with esophageal dilation after LAGB. We performed a retrospective chart review of all LAGBs performed at Columbia University Medical Center from March 2001 to December 2006. Patients with barium swallow (BaSw) at 1 year after surgery were evaluated for esophageal diameter. A diameter of 35 mm or greater was considered to be dilated. Data collected before surgery and at 6 months and 1, 2 and 3 years after surgery were weight, body mass index (BMI), status of co-morbidities, eating parameters, and esophageal dilation as evaluated by BaSw. Of 440 patients, 121 had follow-up with a clinic visit and BaSw performed at 1 year. Seventeen patients (10 women and 7 men) (14%) were found to have esophageal dilation with an average diameter of 40.9 +/- 4.6 mm. There were no significant differences in percent of excess weight lost at any time point; however, GERD symptoms and emesis were more frequent in patients with dilated esophagus than in those without dilation. Intolerance of bread, rice, meat, and pasta was not different at any time during the study. In our experience the incidence of esophageal dilation at 1 year after LAGB was 14%. The presence of dilation did not affect percent excess weight loss (%EWL). GERD symptoms and emesis are more frequent in patients who develop esophageal dilation.
18027188	Melamine has been used for the adulteration of cereal flours in order to increase their apparent protein content. Crude melamine may contain several by-products, i.e. ammeline, ammelide, and cyanuric acid. The simultaneous analysis of all four chemicals is difficult because of the formation of an insoluble salt between melamine and cyanuric acid. A simple and convenient high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for the detection of the adulteration of cereal flours with all four chemicals is proposed herein. The precipitate formation between melamine and cyanuric acid was prevented by using alkaline conditions (pH 11-12) for both standards preparation and sample extraction. The method uses matrix-matching, which involves the construction of a calibration curve on a blank (negative control) matrix, which is then used for the quantitation of melamine and by-products in adulterated (positive) samples. Matrix-matching compensates for analyte losses during sample preparation, and for matrix effects. The method was successfully applied to wheat, corn, and rice flours, and is expected to be applicable (with some modifications) to soy flour as well. The method allows for the detection of melamine, ammeline, and ammelide at approximately 5 microg g(-1), and cyanuric acid at approximately 90 microg g(-1) in wheat flour.
18029485	Searching for economical, nonconventional sources of iron is important in underdeveloped countries to combat iron deficiency and anemia. Our objective was to study iron, vitamin C, and phytic acid composition and also iron bioavailability from 4 species of marine algae included in a rice-based meal. Marine algae (Ulva sp, Sargassum sp, Porphyra sp, and Gracilariopsis sp) were analyzed for monthly variations in iron and for ascorbic acid and phytic acid concentrations. A total of 96 subjects received rice-based meals containing the 4 species of marine algae in different proportions, raw or cooked. All meals contained radioactive iron. Absorption was evaluated by calculating the radioactive iron incorporation in subjects' blood. Iron concentrations in algae were high and varied widely, depending on the species and time of year. The highest iron concentrations were found in Sargassum (157 mg/100 g) and Gracilariopsis (196 mg/100 g). Phytates were not detected in the algae and ascorbic acid concentration fluctuated between 38 microg/g dry weight (Ulva) and 362 microg/g dry weight (Sargassum). Algae significantly increased iron absorption in rice-based meals. Cooking did not affect iron absorption compared with raw algae. Results indicate that Ulva sp, Sargassum sp, Porphyra sp, and Gracilariopsis sp are good sources of ascorbic acid and bioavailable iron. The percentage of iron absorption was similar among all algae tested, although Sargassum sp resulted in the highest iron intake. Based on these results, and on the high reproduction rates of algae during certain seasons, promoting algae consumption in some countries could help to improve iron nutrition.
18029787	We isolated a cDNA corresponding to a chloroplast NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase gene (NTR-C), in Chlorella that is low-temperature-inducible. The obtained cDNA was 1,838 bp in length and coded for 529 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence showed higher homology to those of Arabidopsis and rice NTR-C, containing a thioredoxin (Trx) and a thioredoxin reductase (TR), than those of NTR-A (mitochondrial) and NTR-B (cytosolic) from various organisms, which contain only a TR domain and differ in subcellular localization. The results of enzyme assays of partially-purified mature NTR-C protein (mNTR-C), expressed in Escherichia coli with a pET-29b(+) expression vector, provided evidence that the gene included both regions. Northern blot analysis showed a remarkable increase in transcripts under low temperature, while the protein level did not significantly change when examined by using Western blotting with anti-mNTR-C antibodies. The TR activity dependent on NADPH was not enhanced by low temperature despite the substantial increase in transcripts. Based on the results of measurement of peroxiredoxin (Prx) activity and Western blotting using both an extract of Chlorella and purified mNTR-C, the Chlorella was suggested to possess a Prx that interacts with NTR-C.
18030508	Aquaporins, members of major intrinsic proteins (MIPs), transport water across cellular membranes and play vital roles in all organisms. Adversities such as drought, salinity, or chilling affect water uptake and transport, and numerous plant MIPs are reported to be differentially regulated under such stresses. However, MIP genes have been not yet been characterized in wheat, the largest cereal crop. We have identified 24 PIP and 11 TIP aquaporin genes from wheat by gene isolation and database searches. They vary extensively in lengths, numbers, and sequences of exons and introns, and sequences and cellular locations of predicted proteins, but the intron positions (if present) are characteristic. The putative PIP proteins show a high degree of conservation of signature sequences or residues for membrane integration, water transport, and regulation. The TIPs are more diverse, some with potential for water transport and others with various selectivity filters including a new combination. Most genes appear to be expressed as expressed sequence tags, while two are likely pseudogenes. Many of the genes are highly identical to rice but some are unique, and many correspond to genes that show differential expression under salinity and/or drought. The results provide extensive information for functional studies and developing markers for stress tolerance.
18030922	Fifteen Murrah buffalo calves (age about 10 months, 163-176 kg BW) were divided into three groups. Group I (Control) was fed a complete feed mixture consisted of 50% wheat straw and 50% concentrate mixture (contained per kg: maize 330 g, groundnut cake 210 g, mustard cake 120 g, wheat bran 200 g, de-oiled rice bran 110 g, mineral mixture 20 g and common salt 10 g) along with 2 kg green oats per animal and day to meet the vitamin A requirements. Calves of Groups II and III were fed with the Control diet supplemented with Orpinomyces sp. C-14 and Piromyces sp. WNG-12 cultures, respectively. The digestibility of DM was significantly highest with Piromyces sp. WNG-12 in Group III (62.2%) followed by Orpinomyces sp. C-14 in Group II (60.3%), and Control (53.5%). A similar pattern of increase in digestibility of crude protein and cell-wall contents was observed in treatment groups. The digestible energy in terms of percent total digestible nutrients was also significantly enhanced in Groups II (56.6%) and III (59.9%) when compared to Control (49.2%). The rumen fermentation parameters such as pH and NH3-N were found to be lower, whereas total nitrogen, tricarboxylic acid precipitable-, nitrogen, total volatile fatty acids and zoospore counts per millilitre of rumen liquor were significantly higher in fungal administered groups. After administration of fungal cultures, improvements of animal growth rate (i.e. body weight gain) and feed efficiency were also observed.
1803156	Therapeutic effectiveness of an oral rehydration solution of the second generation Super-ORS based on rice and salt has been tried in 28 patients with food poisoning. Administration of the solution produced a marked clinical effect superior to that of the first generation solutions Glucosalan, Citroglucosalan, Rehydron.
180319	During 1968-1971 Japanese encephalitis (JE) surveillance was conducted with WHO-assisted programs in Taiwan area. Emphasis was placed on: (1) active case-finding by hospital visits; (2) blood collection from every patient at the suitable time; and (3) the enforcement of standard diagnostic criteria on the results of hemagglutination-inhibition tests. Each year, approximately 90% of reported patients were etiologically examined. JE virus etiology was established in 277 (1968), 279 (1969), 269 (1970) and 158 (1971) cases. Despite the apparent concentration of cases in several cities, practically all the cultivated plains and basins were established as potentially endemic for JE. JE outbreak is found to have been clearly associated with season, not only in subtropical but also in tropical Taiwan. Each year it occurred consistently in mid-July in the southernmost county, 2-3 weeks after the peak of rice transplantation and its duration was a few weeks. On the western side of the island, although less consistently, JE outbreak seems to occur one to three weeks later than in the south. Outbreak in eastern Taiwan was a mid-September phenomenon for 3 years. Observed seasonal lag, which was significant between two neighboring localities on same latitude, suggests that paddy water management is more directly related to date of outbreak than local climate. Seasonal characteristics further suggests that the area may be separated into eight ecologic subdivisions. JE-virus transmission to a man during April at temperatures below the average of 20 C was discussed.
18032588	Organisms with a high density of transposable elements (TEs) exhibit nesting, with subsequent repeats found inside previously inserted elements. Nesting splits the sequence structure of TEs and makes annotation of repetitive areas challenging. We present TEnest, a repeat identification and display tool made specifically for highly repetitive genomes. TEnest identifies repetitive sequences and reconstructs separated sections to provide full-length repeats and, for long-terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons, calculates age since insertion based on LTR divergence. TEnest provides a chronological insertion display to give an accurate visual representation of TE integration history showing timeline, location, and families of each TE identified, thus creating a framework from which evolutionary comparisons can be made among various regions of the genome. A database of repeats has been developed for maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare) to illustrate the potential of TEnest software. All currently finished maize bacterial artificial chromosomes totaling 29.3 Mb were analyzed with TEnest to provide a characterization of the repeat insertions. Sixty-seven percent of the maize genome was found to be made up of TEs; of these, 95% are LTR retrotransposons. The rate of solo LTR formation is shown to be dissimilar across retrotransposon families. Phylogenetic analysis of TE families reveals specific events of extreme TE proliferation, which may explain the high quantities of certain TE families found throughout the maize genome. The TEnest software package is available for use on PlantGDB under the tools section (http://www.plantgdb.org/prj/TE_nest/TE_nest.html); the source code is available from (http://wiselab.org).
18034312	Rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) take up iron using iron-chelating compounds known as mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs). In the biosynthetic pathway of MAs, nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT) catalyses the key step from nicotianamine to the 3''-keto form. In the present study, we identified six rice NAAT genes (OsNAAT1-6) by screening a cDNA library made from Fe-deficient rice roots and by searching databases. Among the NAAT homologues, OsNAAT1 belongs to a subgroup containing barley functional NAAT (HvNAAT-A and HvNAAT-B) as well as a maize homologue cloned by cDNA library screening (ZmNAAT1). Northern blot and RT-PCR analysis showed that OsNAAT1, but not OsNAAT2-6, was strongly up-regulated by Fe deficiency, both in roots and shoots. The OsNAAT1 protein had NAAT enzyme activity in vitro, confirming that the OsNAAT1 gene encodes functional NAAT. Promoter-GUS analysis revealed that OsNAAT1 was expressed in companion and pericycle cells adjacent to the protoxylem of Fe-sufficient roots. In addition, expression was induced in all cells of Fe-deficient roots, with particularly strong GUS activity evident in the companion and pericycle cells. OsNAAT1 expression was also observed in the companion cells of Fe-sufficient shoots, and was clearly induced in all the cells of Fe-deficient leaves. These expression patterns highly resemble those of OsNAS1, OsNAS2 and OsDMAS1, the genes responsible for MAs biosynthesis for Fe acquisition. These findings strongly suggest that rice synthesizes MAs in whole Fe-deficient roots to acquire Fe from the rhizosphere, and also in phloem cells to maintain metal homeostasis facilitated by MAs-mediated long-distance transport.
1803440	Cd and Pb contents were determined in milk formulae, milk-cereal formulae and cereal formulae produced by Okregowe Zakady Koncentratw Spozywczych (OZKS) (Regional Food Concentrates Processing Plants) for infants and children up to 3 years of age. The major parts of the assortments were found to contain products whose cadmium and/or lead contents exceeded the admissible norms. These contents were as follows: in milk formulae: from less than 2 to 8 micrograms Cd/kg and from less than 20 to 180 micrograms Pb/kg; in milk-cereal formulae: from less than 2 to 20 micrograms Cd/kg and from less than 20 to 180 micrograms Pb/kg; in cereal formulae from less than 2 to 70 micrograms Cd/kg and from less than 20 to 400 micrograms Pb/kg. Contents of Cd and Pb were the highest in cereal formulae mainly in those produced of wheat flour and buckwheat-rice flour. Determinations of Cd and Pb contents in raw materials and in some cereal intermediate products revealed that the occurrence of excessively high Cd and Pb contents in the cereal-containing formulae was due to contamination of the cereal raw materials with these metals.
18034713	Defatted rice bran was subjected to cellulase treatment in order to increase its extractable oligosaccharides. Various combinations of enzyme concentration (0%, 0.5%, 1.0%, and 2.0%), temperature (room, 30, 40, and 50 degrees C), and time (1, 3, 5, and 16 h) were tested to identify the optimum extraction conditions. The saccharide content and composition of the extracts were analyzed by high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD). Digestibility was assayed in vitro with human salivary and porcine pancreatic alpha-amylases. Extraction yield ranged from 13.4% (without cellulase) to 39.9% (with 2% cellulase). Total carbohydrates, reducing sugars, and crude protein of the dried extracts ranged from 69.2% to 87.2%, 18.7% to 62.3%, and 7.1% to 22.3%, respectively. Mono- and disaccharides constituted more than 50% of the total carbohydrates in the extracts. Inherent oligosaccharides and those produced by cellulolysis made up less than 25%. The in vitro digestibility of the extracts by alpha-amylases was lower compared with that of the original rice bran sample and potato dextrin, which could be attributed to the increased concentrations of oligosaccharides and reducing sugars.
18034759	Using a panel of chemical, biochemical, and cell assays, we determined inhibitory effects of extracts of the pigmented black rice brans on in vitro allergic reactions. Ethanol-water (70% v/v) extracts from 5 pigmented brans were found to be more effective than an extract from a nonpigmented rice cultivar in suppressing the release of histamine and beta-hexosaminidase from basophilic RBL-2H3 cells stimulated with both Ionophore A23187 and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-antigen complexes. Suppression was also obtained with A23187-stimulated rat peritoneal mast cells. The extent of inhibition of these 2 markers of the immune response was accompanied by an influx of calcium ions. The inhibition of the immune process by the pigmented brans was confirmed by the observed modulation of the proinflammatory cytokine gene expressions and cytokine release, as indicated by the reduction in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-4, and IL-6 mRNA expressions determined with the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Reduction of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 protein release from both the cultured cell line and peritoneal cells was further confirmed by enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assays. Rice bran from the LK1-3-6-12-1-1 cultivar was the most effective inhibitor in all assays. This particular rice variety merits further evaluation as part of a human diet to ascertain its potential to protect against allergic diseases such as hay fever and asthma.
18036220	To study the effects of a pre-germinated brown rice diet (PR) on diabetic neuropathy in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. The effects of a PR diet on diabetic neuropathy in STZ-induced diabetic rats were evaluated and compared with those fed brown rice (BR) or white rice (WR) diets with respect to the following parameters: blood-glucose level, motor-nerve conduction velocity (NCV), sciatic-nerve Na+/K+-ATPase activity, and serum homocysteine-thiolactonase (HTase) activity. Compared with diabetic rats fed BR or WR diets, those fed a PR diet demonstrated significantly lower blood-glucose levels (p < 0.001), improved NCV (1.2- and 1.3-fold higher, respectively), and increased Na+/K+-ATPase activity (1.6- and 1.7-fold higher, respectively). The PR diet was also able to normalize decreased serum homocysteine levels normally seen in diabetic rats. The increased Na+/K+-ATPase activity observed in rats fed PR diets was associated with elevations in HTase activity (r = 0.913, p < 0.001). The in vitro effect of the total lipid extract from PR bran (TLp) on the Na+/K+-ATPase and HTase activity was also examined. Incubation of homocysteine thiolactone (HT) with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) in vitro resulted in generation of HT-modified LDL, which possessed high potency to inhibit Na+/K+-ATPase activity in the sciatic nerve membrane. The inhibitory effect of HT-modified LDL on Na+/K+-ATPase activity disappeared when TLp was added to the incubation mixture. Furthermore, TLp directly activated the HTase associated with high-density lipoprotein (HDL). PR treatment shows efficacy for protecting diabetic deterioration and for improving physiological parameters of diabetic neuropathy in rats, as compared with a BR or WR diet. This effect may be induced by a mechanism whereby PR intake mitigates diabetic neuropathy by one or more factors in the total lipid fraction. The active lipid fraction is able to protect the Na+/K+-ATPase of the sciatic-nerve membrane from the toxicity of HT-modified LDL and to directly activate the HTase of HDL.
18036635	Natural variation occurs in the uptake and distribution of essential and nonessential trace elements among crop species and among cultivars within species. Such variation can be responsible for trace element deficiencies and toxicities, which in turn can affect the quality of food. Plant breeding can be an important tool to both increase the concentration of desirable trace elements and reduce that of potentially harmful trace elements such as cadmium (Cd). Selection programs for a low-Cd content of various crops, including durum wheat, sunflower, rice and soybean have been established and low-Cd durum wheat cultivars and sunflower hybrids have been developed. In durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var durum), low-Cd concentration is controlled by a single dominant gene. The trait is highly heritable, and incorporation of the low-Cd allele can help to reduce the average grain Cd to levels below proposed international limits. The allele for low-Cd concentration does not appear to affect major economic traits and should not cause problems when incorporated into durum cultivars. The cost of Cd selection in a breeding program is initially large both in terms of Cd determination and reduced progress towards development of other economic traits, but declines as more breeding lines in the program carry the low-Cd trait and are utilized in new crosses. Production of low-Cd crop cultivars can be used as a tool to reduce the risk of movement of Cd into the human diet.
18037139	Several brittle culm mutants of rice were identified and characterized. In this study, we characterized a brittle mutant (bc7(t)) identified from japonica variety Zhonghua 11 by means of 60Co-gamma radiation. This mutant displays normal phenotype similar to its wild type plants except for the fragility of all plant body, with approximately 10% decrease in the cellulose content. The genetic analysis and gene fine mapping showed that the bc7(t) mutant was controlled by a recessive gene, residing on an 8.4 kb region of the long arm of chromosome 1. The gene annotation indicated that there was only one putative gene encoding cellulose synthase catalytic subunit (CesA) in this region, which was allelic to OsCesA4. Furthermore, the sequence analysis was carried out and 7 bases deletion in the junction of exon 10 and intron 10 was done in bc7(t) mutant, resulting in the change of reading frame and the consequent failure to generate functional protein. In addition, the result of RNA interference experiment showed that when the Bc7(t) was knocked down, the transplants exhibited fragility, similar to bc7(t) mutant. The finding of novel allele of OsCesA4 locus will facilitate the understanding of the mechanism of cell wall biosynthesis. The potential utilization of the bc7(t) mutant in animal food was discussed as well.
18037265	Alternative splicing (AS) is one of the most significant components of the functional complexity of the eukaryote genome, increasing protein diversity, creating isoforms, and affecting mRNA stability. Recently, whole genome sequences and large microarray data sets have become available, making data integration feasible and allowing the study of the possible regulatory mechanism of AS in rice (Oryza sativa) by erecting and testing hypotheses before doing bench studies. We have developed a new strategy and have identified 215 rice genes with alternative expression isoforms related to insertion and deletion (indel) between subspecies indica and subspecies japonica. We did a case study for alternative expression isoforms of the rice peroxidase gene LOC_Os06g48030 to investigate possible mechanisms by which indels caused alternative splicing between the indica and the japonica varieties by mining of array data together with validation by RT-PCR and genome sequencing analysis. Multiple poly(A) signals were detected in the specific indel region for LOC_Os06g48030. We present a new methodology to promote more discoveries of potentially indel-caused AS genes in rice, which may serve as the foundation for research into the regulatory mechanism of alternative expression isoforms between subspecies.
18037306	Sesame (Sesamum indicum) is an important oilseed crop; approximately 50% of the seed dry weight is storage oil. In a previous report, developing sesame seed expressed sequence tags (ESTs) revealed that ESTs encoding lipid transfer protein (LTPs) were one of the most abundant groups of sesame ESTs. LTP functions in the transfer of wax or cutin monomers and in the defense response against pathogen attack. To study the biological role of the abundant LTP isoforms in developing seeds, 122 ESTs out of 3328 sesame ESTs were analyzed against Arabidopsis and rice proteome databases. LTP fraction, which was partially purified from developing sesame seeds, actively transferred fluorescent phospholipids and bound to fatty acids. Full-length cDNAs of five out of 21 LTP isoforms were isolated and named SiLTP1-SiLTP5. The predicted amino acid sequences of the five SiLTPs harbor typical characteristics of LTPs, including conserved arrangement of cysteine residues. Northern blot analysis revealed that the five SiLTP isoforms were most abundantly expressed in developing seeds, but were also detected in flower tissues. Also, SiLTP3 and SiLTP4 transcripts were expressed in leaves and seed-pot walls, respectively. In addition, SiLTP2 and SiLTP4 transcripts were significantly induced in 6-day-old sesame seedlings by application of NaCl, mannitol, and abscisic acid (ABA). Transient expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fusion constructs in Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed that SiLTP1 and SiLTP2 were secreted by different pathways. Taken together, the abundant LTPs in developing sesame seeds are involved in lipid transfer into the extracellular matrix. Possible biological roles of SiLTPs related to organ-specific expression and abiotic stresses are discussed.
18037610	Water transport in plants is greatly dependent on the expression and activity of water transport channels, called aquaporins. Here, we have clarified the tissue- and cell-specific localization of aquaporins in rice plants by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry using seven isoform-specific aquaporin antibodies. We also examined water transport activities of typical aquaporin family members using a yeast expression system in combination with a stopped-flow spectrophotometry assay. OsPIP1 members, OsPIP2;1, OsTIP1;1 and OsTIP2;2 were expressed in both leaf blades and roots, while OsPIP2;3, OsPIP2;5 and OsTIP2;1 were expressed only in roots. In roots, large amounts of aquaporins accumulated in the region adjacent to the root tip (around 1.5-4 mm from the root tip). In this region, cell-specific localization of the various aquaporin members was observed. OsPIP1 members and OsTIP2;2 accumulated predominantly in the endodermis and the central cylinder, respectively. OsTIP1;1 showed specific localization in the rhizodermis and exodermis. OsPIP2;1, OsPIP2;3 and OsPIP2;5 accumulated in all root cells, but they showed higher levels of accumulation in endodermis than other cells. In the region at 35 mm from the root tip, where aerenchyma develops, aquaporins accumulated at low levels. In leaf blades, OsPIP1 members and OsPIP2;1 were localized mainly in mesophyll cells. OsPIP2;1, OsPIP2;3, OsPIP2;5 and OsTIP2;2 expressed in yeast showed high water transport activities. These results suggest that rice aquaporins with various water transport activities may play distinct roles in facilitating water flux and maintaining the water potential in different tissues and cells.
18037673	Arabidopsis thaliana has 11 members belonging to the typical type-B ARR (authentic response regulator) family. Among them, seven highly homologous members appear also to be conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), but others are not. It was suggested that these seven ARRs are commonly implicated as DNA-binding transcription factors in the phosphorelay-mediated cytokinin signal transduction network in higher plants. To gain an insight into the functions of the cytokinin-associated type-B ARRs, we previously investigated an arr1 arr10 arr12 triple mutant and reported that it exhibited stunted growth and abnormality in vascular development. Based on this fact, here we attempted to characterize the mutant intensively with reference to cytokinin-associated phenotypes through the life cycle. We showed that the observed cytokinin-associated phenotypes of arr1 arr10 arr12 were very severe and highly analogous to those observed for certain ahk2 ahk3 ahk4/cre1 triple mutants, which have virtually no cytokinin receptor to propagate the phosphorelay signal transduction network. Among the seven ARR members belonging to the cytokinin-associated type-B ARR subfamily, it was thus suggested that ARR1, ARR10 and ARR12 together play essential (or general) roles in cytokinin signal transduction. It is therefore conceivable that the other type-B ARRs (ARR2, ARR11, ARR14 and ARR18) might play more specific roles spatially and temporally in plants.
18038131	Monascus-fermented rice has traditionally been used as a natural food colorant and food preservative of meat and fish for centuries. It has recently become a popular dietary supplement because of many of its bioactive constituents being discovered, including a series of active drug compounds, monacolins, indicated as the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors for reducing serum cholesterol level. The controversy of its safety has been provoked because a mycotoxin, citrinin, is also produced along with the Monascus secondary metabolites by certain strains or under certain cultivation conditions. This review introduces the basic production process and addresses on the compounds with bioactive functions. Current advances in avoiding the harmful ingredient citrinin are also discussed.
18038191	Two ZIP (Zrt, Irt-like Protein) cDNAs were isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) by RT-PCR approach, and named as OsZIP7a and OsZIP8 respectively. The predicted proteins of OsZIP7a and OsZIP8 consist of 384 and 390 amino acid residues respectively, and display high similarity to other plant ZIP proteins. Each protein contains eight transmembrane (TM) domains and a highly conserved ZIP signature motif, with a histidine-rich region in the variable region between TM domains III and IV. By semi-quantitative RT-PCR approach, it was found that the expression of OsZIP7a was significantly induced in rice roots by iron-deficiency, while that of OsZIP8 induced in both rice roots and shoots by zinc-deficiency. When expressed in yeast cells, OsZIP7a and OsZIP8 could complement an iron-uptake-deficient yeast mutant and a zinc-uptake-deficient yeast mutant respectively. It suggested that the OsZIP7a and OsZIP8 might encode an iron and a zinc transporter protein in rice respectively.
18039882	Many genes duplicated by whole-genome duplications (WGDs) are more similar to one another than expected. We investigated whether concerted evolution through conversion and crossing over, well-known to affect tandem gene clusters, also affects dispersed paralogs. Genome sequences for two Oryza subspecies reveal appreciable gene conversion in the approximately 0.4 MY since their divergence, with a gradual progression toward independent evolution of older paralogs. Since divergence from subspecies indica, approximately 8% of japonica paralogs produced 5-7 MYA on chromosomes 11 and 12 have been affected by gene conversion and several reciprocal exchanges of chromosomal segments, while approximately 70-MY-old "paleologs" resulting from a genome duplication (GD) show much less conversion. Sequence similarity analysis in proximal gene clusters also suggests more conversion between younger paralogs. About 8% of paleologs may have been converted since rice-sorghum divergence approximately 41 MYA. Domain-encoding sequences are more frequently converted than nondomain sequences, suggesting a sort of circularity--that sequences conserved by selection may be further conserved by relatively frequent conversion. The higher level of concerted evolution in the 5-7 MY-old segmental duplication may reflect the behavior of many genomes within the first few million years after duplication or polyploidization.
18039989	Much uncertainty exists about the role of dietary glycemic index and glycemic load in the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus, especially in populations that traditionally subsist on a diet high in carbohydrates. We observed a cohort of 64,227 Chinese women with no history of diabetes or other chronic disease at baseline for 4.6 years. In-person interviews were conducted to collect data on dietary habits, physical activity, and other relevant information using a validated questionnaire. Incident diabetes cases were identified via in-person follow-up. Associations between dietary carbohydrate intake, glycemic index, and glycemic load and diabetes incidence were evaluated using multivariable Cox proportional hazards models. We identified 1,608 incident cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus in 297,755 person-years of follow-up. Dietary carbohydrate intake and consumption of rice were positively associated with risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus. The multivariable-adjusted estimates of relative risk comparing the highest vs the lowest quintiles of intake were 1.28 (95% confidence interval, 1.09-1.50) for carbohydrates and 1.78 (95% confidence interval, 1.48-2.15) for rice. The relative risk for increasing quintiles of intake was 1.00, 1.04, 1.02, 1.09, and 1.21 (95% confidence interval, 1.03-1.43) for dietary glycemic index and 1.00, 1.06, 0.97, 1.23, and 1.34 (95% confidence interval, 1.13-1.58) for dietary glycemic load. High intake of foods with a high glycemic index and glycemic load, especially rice, the main carbohydrate-contributing food in this population, may increase the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in Chinese women.
18041940	The zebrafish, Danio rerio, has emerged as a major model organism for biomedical research, yet little is known about its natural history. We review the literature pertaining to the geographic range, biotic and abiotic habitats, and life cycle of the zebrafish. We also report our own field study to document several aspects of zebrafish natural history across sites in northeast India. We found zebrafish particularly abundant in silt-bottomed, well-vegetated pools and rice paddies adjacent to slow moving streams at a range of elevations. We further identified co-occurring fishes likely to be zebrafish competitors and predators. Finally, we present observations that indicate substantial habitat degradation and loss, and suggest guidelines for documenting and preserving natural zebrafish populations.
18042308	An experiment was conducted to determine whether adding oat hulls to weaner pig diets based on extruded rice or unprocessed wheat influenced post-weaning diarrhoea (PWD) and protein fermentation in the large intestine. Ninety-six male piglets (5.16 (SEM 0.08) kg) were allocated to (i) extruded rice plus animal proteins (RAP); (ii) RAP with added oat hulls (20 g/kg); (iii) wheat plus animal proteins (WAP); (iv) WAP with added oat hulls (20 g/kg). Blood and faecal samples were collected on days 7 and 14 after weaning at about age 21 d. Pigs fed RAP had more PWD than pigs fed WAP (P < 0.05). Oat hull supplementation to diet RAP decreased the incidence of PWD (P < 0.05). The total-tract digestibility of DM, starch and energy was higher in rice-based diets than in wheat-based diets (P < 0.001); however, oat hulls decreased digestibility of DM and gross energy (P < 0.001). Pigs fed RAP had higher plasma creatinine concentrations (P < 0.01), which were positively correlated to cumulative beta-haemolytic Escherichia coli scores after weaning (R2 0.928; P = 0.015). Addition of oat hulls decreased plasma urea concentrations only in pigs fed RAP (interaction; P < 0.05). Pigs fed RAP had lower faecal total biogenic amine concentrations than pigs fed WAP (P < 0.001). Oat hull supplementation tended to decrease total biogenic amine concentrations (P = 0.103). These data indirectly suggest that a mostly insoluble dietary fibre source such as oat hulls can decrease PWD in dietary situations where there may be a misbalance of carbohydrate to protein entering the hindgut.
18042724	Chitin is a major component of fungal cell walls and serves as a microbe-associated molecular pattern (MAMP) for the detection of various potential pathogens in innate immune systems of both plants and animals. We recently showed that chitin elicitor-binding protein (CEBiP), plasma membrane glycoprotein with LysM motifs, functions as a cell surface receptor for chitin elicitor in rice. The predicted structure of CEBiP does not contain any intracellular domains, suggesting that an additional component(s) is required for signaling through the plasma membrane into the cytoplasm. Here, we identified a receptor-like kinase, designated CERK1, which is essential for chitin elicitor signaling in Arabidopsis. The KO mutants for CERK1 completely lost the ability to respond to the chitin elicitor, including MAPK activation, reactive oxygen species generation, and gene expression. Disease resistance of the KO mutant against an incompatible fungus, Alternaria brassicicola, was partly impaired. Complementation with the WT CERK1 gene showed cerk1 mutations were responsible for the mutant phenotypes. CERK1 is a plasma membrane protein containing three LysM motifs in the extracellular domain and an intracellular Ser/Thr kinase domain with autophosphorylation/myelin basic protein kinase activity, suggesting that CERK1 plays a critical role in fungal MAMP perception in plants.
18043742	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a model organism for the functional genomics of monocotyledonous plants since the genome size is considerably smaller than those of other monocotyledonous plants. Although highly accurate genome sequences of indica and japonica rice are available, additional resources such as full-length complementary DNA (FL-cDNA) sequences are also indispensable for comprehensive analyses of gene structure and function. We cross-referenced 28.5K individual loci in the rice genome defined by mapping of 578K FL-cDNA clones with the 56K loci predicted in the TIGR genome assembly. Based on the annotation status and the presence of corresponding cDNA clones, genes were classified into 23K annotated expressed (AE) genes, 33K annotated non-expressed (ANE) genes, and 5.5K non-annotated expressed (NAE) genes. We developed a 60mer oligo-array for analysis of gene expression from each locus. Analysis of gene structures and expression levels revealed that the general features of gene structure and expression of NAE and ANE genes were considerably different from those of AE genes. The results also suggested that the cloning efficiency of rice FL-cDNA is associated with the transcription activity of the corresponding genetic locus, although other factors may also have an effect. Comparison of the coverage of FL-cDNA among gene families suggested that FL-cDNA from genes encoding rice- or eukaryote-specific domains, and those involved in regulatory functions were difficult to produce in bacterial cells. Collectively, these results indicate that rice genes can be divided into distinct groups based on transcription activity and gene structure, and that the coverage bias of FL-cDNA clones exists due to the incompatibility of certain eukaryotic genes in bacteria.
18045399	Characterization of dehydromonacolin-MV2, a bioactive metabolite isolated from Monascus purpureus mutant (CFR 410-11). Chloroform extract of rice, fermented with a hyperpigment-producing mutant of M. purpureus (CFR 410-11) was found to contain metabolites that inhibited the growth of Bacillus, Pseudomonas and Streptococcus in agar gel diffusion assays. The extract inhibited lipid peroxidation and scavenged 2,2-diphenyl-1-pycrylhydrazyl and hydroxyl radicals. The active compound purified by silica gel column chromatography was characterized by NMR. The carbon, proton and 2D HSQCT assignments identified dehydromonacolin-MV2 as the bioactive metabolite. Dehydromonacolin-MV2 apparently originated in the mutant by hydroxylation and oxidation of monacolin-J, an intermediate of monacolin biosynthetic pathway. Identification of the production of dehydromonacolin-MV2 by M. purpureus mutant (CFR 410-11) is new to literature. Bioactive properties of the compound suggested its pharmaceutical applications.
18045418	Isolation of bacterial antagonist for use in the biological control of phytopathogenic fungi like rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, and to further purify and characterize the antifungal molecule produced by the antagonist. Bacterial antagonist exhibiting highest antifungal activity against the rice blast fungus M. grisea was isolated from soil and identified as Bacillus licheniformis BC98. Besides M. grisea, the isolate also inhibited the growth of other phytopathogens such as Curvularia lunata and Rhizoctonia bataticola. Biologically active fractions were isolated from the culture filtrate and further fractionated by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) enabling detailed structural characterization of a component of molecular mass 1035 Da. The active peptide was identified as surfactin after 500 MHz (1)H NMR analysis. Microscopic analysis of the effect of the antagonist on M. grisea revealed bulbous hyphae showing patchy and vacuolated cytoplasm when observed under the electron microscope. The antagonistic lipopeptide secreted by B. licheniformis BC98 and identified as surfactin, induced morphological changes in M. grisea, inhibiting its further growth, and thus exhibiting fungicidal activity. The antagonist inhibits germination of M. grisea, a potent rice phytopathogen, and therefore appears to be a potential candidate for control of rice blast disease.
18045507	Xp10 and OP1 are phages of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causative agent of bacterial leaf blight in rice plants, which were isolated in 1967 in Taiwan and in 1954 in Japan, respectively. We recently isolated the Xoo phage Xop411. The linear Xop411 genome (44,520 bp, 58 ORFs) sequenced here is 147 bp longer than that of Xp10 (60 ORFs) and 735 bp longer than that of OP1 (59 ORFs). The G+C contents of OP1 (51%) and Xop411 and Xp10 (52% each) are less than that of the host (65%). The 9-bp 3'-overhangs (5'-GGACAGTCT-3') in Xop411 and Xp10 are absent from OP1. More of the deduced Xop411 proteins share higher degrees of identity with Xp10 than with OP1 proteins, while the right end of the genomes of Xp10 and OP1, containing all predicted promoters, share stronger homology. Xop411, Xp10, and OP1 contain 8, 7, and 6 freestanding HNH endonuclease genes, respectively. These genes can be classified into five groups depending on their possession of the HNH domain (HNN or HNH type) and/or AP2 domain in intact or truncated forms. While the HNN-AP2 type endonuclease genes dispersed in the genome, the HNH type endonuclease genes, each with a unique copy, were located within the same genome context. Mass spectrometry and N-terminal sequencing showed nine Xop411 coat proteins, among which three were identified, six were assigned as coat proteins (4) and conserved phage proteins (2) in Xp10. The major coat protein, in which only the N-terminal methionine is removed, appears to exist in oligomeric forms containing 2 to 6 subunits. The three phages exhibit different patterns of domain duplication in the N-terminus of the tail fiber, which are involved in determination of the host range. Many short repeated sequences are present in and around the duplicated domains. Geographical separation may have confined lateral gene transfer among the Xoo phages. The HNN-AP2 type endonucleases were more likely to transfer their genes randomly in the genome and may degenerate after successful transmission. Some repeated sequences may be involved in duplication/loss of the domains in the tail fiber genes.
18045629	An elicitor of rice defense responses was recently isolated from human feces and was identified as cholic acid (CA). Pathogen infection in rice leaves induces phytocassanes and momilactones, both of which are major diterpenoid phytoalexins in rice, whereas CA mainly induces phytocassanes. We established a high-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry protocol for the rapid and accurate quantification of phytocassanes and momilactones. Using this method, we showed that CA preferentially induced the formation of phytocassanes in suspension-cultured rice cells, while a fungal chitin oligosaccharide elicitor induced that of both phytocassanes and momilactones. We further investigated the effects of CA on the expression of diterpene cyclase genes involved in phytoalexin biosynthesis. CA induced the transcription of the genes OsCPS2 (OsCyc2) and OsKSL7 (OsDTC1), which are involved in phytocassane biosynthesis, to a greater extent than the genes OsCPS4 (OsCyc1) and OsKSL4, which are involved in momilactone biosynthesis. OsCPS2 was particularly strongly induced, suggesting that it is one of the main mechanisms by which CA induces high levels of phytocassanes.
18046575	The functions of plant glycoside hydrolases and transglycosidases have been studied using different biochemical and molecular genetic approaches. These enzymes are involved in the metabolism of various carbohydrates containing compounds present in the plant tissues. The structural and functional diversity of the carbohydrates implies a vast spectrum of enzymes involved in their metabolism. Complete genome sequence of Arabidopsis and rice has allowed the classification of glycoside hydrolases in different families based on amino acid sequence data. The genomes of these plants contain 29 families of glycoside hydrolases. This review summarizes the current research on plant glycoside hydrolases concerning their principal functional roles, which were attributed to different families. The majority of these plant glycoside hydrolases are involved in cell wall polysaccharide metabolism. Other functions include their participation in the biosynthesis and remodulation of glycans, mobilization of energy, defence, symbiosis, signalling, secondary plant metabolism and metabolism of glycolipids.
18047197	An entomological survey was carried out in three humid savannah sites of western Burkina Faso (Bama, Lena, and Soumousso) to (1) update the taxonomy of the Anopheles funestus Giles group, (2) examine the role of each species in malaria transmission, (3) characterize the insecticide resistance status of this malaria vector, and (4) determine the distribution of An. funestus chromosomal forms in these areas. Polymerase chain reaction identification of the members showed the occurrence of An. leesoni Evans in Lena and An. rivulorum-like in Soumousso in addition to An. funestus s.s. Malaria transmission was ensured mainly by An. funestus s.s. both in Soumousso and Lena and by An. gambiae s.s. Giles in Bama, the rice-growing area. The insecticide resistance status performed only on An. funestus indicated that this mosquito was susceptible to pyrethroids irrespective of the study area, but it was resistant to dieldrin. Furthermore, the occurrence of the two chromosomal forms of An. funestus, namely, Kiribina and Folonzo, seemed to follow ecological setups where Kiribina predominated in the irrigated area and Folonzo was more frequent in classic savannah. This study revealed that the problematic of An. funestus taxonomy was closer to that of An. gambiae requiring more structured studies to understand its genetic ecology.
18047280	Monascus species-fermented red mold rice (RMR) has been regarded as a popular hypolipidemic functional food because it contains monacolin K, an inhibitor of de novo cholesterol synthesis. However, the safety of RMR is always an issue because citrinin is present in RMR and is reported to be hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic. The present study was therefore to develop a postprocess to remove citrinin yet retain monacoln K in the RMR preparation. We found that phosphate-ethanol extraction was effective for the removal citrinin, yet it could retain monacolin K, because the former was more hydrophilic than the latter in phosphate-ethanol solution. Ethanol, phosphate, and extraction time were optimized as factors of response surface methodology (RSM). It was found that the optimal RSM condition was 45% ethanol, 1.5% phosphate, and extraction for 70 min. Under this optimal condition, 91.6% citrinin was removed and 79.5% monacolin K was retained in the final RMR.
18047669	Gibberellins (GA) are plant hormones that can regulate germination, elongation growth, and sex determination. They ubiquitously occur in seed plants. The discovery of gibberellin receptors, together with advances in understanding the function of key components of GA signalling in Arabidopsis and rice, reveal a fairly short GA signal transduction route. The pathway essentially consists of GID1 gibberellin receptors that interact with F-box proteins, which in turn regulate degradation of downstream DELLA proteins, suppressors of GA-controlled responses. Arabidopsis sequences of the gibberellin signalling compounds were used to screen databases from a variety of plants, including protists, for homologues, providing indications for the degree of conservation of the pathway. The pathway as such appears completely absent in protists, the moss Physcomitrella patens shares only a limited homology with the Arabidopsis proteins, thus lacking essential characteristics of the classical GA signalling pathway, while the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii contains a possible ortholog for each component. The occurrence of classical GA responses can as yet not be linked with the presence of homologues of the signalling pathway. Alignments and display in neighbour joining trees of the GA signalling components confirm the close relationship of gymnosperms, monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, as suggested from previous studies. Homologues of the GA-signalling pathway were mainly found in vascular plants. The GA signalling system may have its evolutionary molecular onset in Physcomitrella patens, where GAs at higher concentrations affect gravitropism and elongation growth.
18047780	We cloned a uridine-diphosphate dependent glycosyltransferase RUGT-10 from Oryza sativa. The recombinant enzyme was expressed by glutathione-S transferase gene fusion system in Escherichia coli. RUGT10 showed different regioselectivity depending on the structures of substrates (e.g. flavanone, flavonol, and flavone). Apparently, flavanone such as naringenin and eriodictyol gave one 7-O-glucoside while flavone and flavonol gave more than two products with preferential glucosylation position of hydroxyl group at C-3 position.
18049796	The homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) putative transcription factor genes are divided into 4 families. In this work, we studied the function of a rice HD-Zip I gene, H OME O BO X4 (Oshox4). Oshox4 transcripts were detected in leaf and floral organ primordia but excluded from the shoot apical meristem and the protein was nuclear localized. Over-expression of Oshox4 in rice induced a semi-dwarf phenotype that could not be complemented by applied GA3. The over-expression plants accumulated elevated levels of bioactive GA, while the GA catabolic gene GA2ox3 was upregulated in the transgenic plants. In addition, over-expression of Oshox4 blocked GA-dependent alpha-amylase production. However, down-regulation of Oshox4 in RNAi transgenic plants induced no phenotypic alteration. Interestingly, the expression of YAB1 that is involved in the negative feedback regulation of the GA biosynthesis was upregulated in the Oshox4 over-expressing plants. One-hybrid assays showed that Oshox4 could interact with YAB1 promoter in yeast. In addition, Oshox4 expression was upregulated by GA. These data together suggest that Oshox4 may be involved in the negative regulation of GA signalling and may play a role to fine tune GA responses in rice.
18050277	Plant pathogenic bacteria transfer effector proteins into plant cells via the hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (Hrp) type III protein secretion system (T3SS) during infection. The genes encoding the Hrp T3SS are expressed only under plant apoplast-mimicking conditions in an AraC-type transcriptional activator HrpB-dependent manner. To identify the proteins controlled by HrpB in Burkholderia glumae in vitro, we constitutively expressed hrpB and analyzed the proteins showing altered expression using 2-DE and ESI-MS/MS. Among 46 proteins exhibiting consistently altered expression, which were encoded by 34 different genes, 34 were secretory proteins and 12 were cytoplasmic. Twenty-eight of the secreted proteins showed increased accumulation, whereas the other six showed decreased accumulation. None of the HrpB-dependent proteins had significant homology to known T3SS-dependent proteins, except for HrpK from Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae and two T3SS-associated cytoplasmic proteins from Ralstonia solanacearum. Twenty-one of the 34 genes had putative HrpB-binding sequences in their upstream regulatory regions. Secretion of all 34 extracellular proteins was independent of the Hrp T3SS, and 16 were secreted via a type II protein secretion system (T2SS). Mutants lacking the T2SS or Hrp T3SS produced toxoflavin but were less virulent to rice panicles, indicating the importance of these proteins in pathogenicity.
18050909	Antagonistic fluorescent pseudomonads isolated from rhizospheric soil of rice were characterized by 16S rRNA amplicon and fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) analyses. Antagonistic isolates were grown in the fermentation media, and production of antibiotics was confirmed by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Production of fungal cell-wall-degrading enzymes such as protease, cellulase, pectinase, and chitinase was determined. Dendrogram based on the major and differentiating fatty acids resulted into 5 clusters, viz., cluster I (P. pseudoalcaligenes group), cluster II (P. plecoglossicida group), cluster III (P. fluorescens group), cluster IV (P. aeruginosa group), and cluster V (P. putida group). Characteristic presence of high relative proportions of cyclopropane (17:0 CYCLO w7c) was observed in antagonistic bacteria. Data revealed biodiversity among antagonistic fluorescent pseudomonads associated with the rice rhizosphere. Results presented in this study will help to identify the antagonistic isolates and to determine their mechanisms that mediate antagonism against fungal pathogens of rice.
18051268	Seed coating by a phenazine-producing bacterium, Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6, induced dose-dependent inhibition of germination in wheat and barley seeds, but did not inhibit germination of rice or cucumber seeds. In wheat seedlings grown from inoculated seeds, phenazine production levels near the seed were higher than in the roots. Deletion of the gacS gene reduced transcription from the genes required for phenazine synthesis, the regulatory phzI gene and the biosynthetic phzA gene. The inhibition of seed germination and the induction of systemic disease resistance against a bacterial soft-rot pathogen, Erwinia carotovora subsp. carotovora, were impaired in the gacS and phzA mutants of P chlororaphis O6. Culture filtrates of the gacS and phzA mutants of P chlororaphis 06 did not inhibit seed germination of wheat, whereas that of the wild-type was inhibitory. Our results showed that the production of phenazines by P chlororaphis O6 was correlated with reduced germination of barley and wheat seeds, and the level of systemic resistance in tobacco against E. carotovora.
18051286	Acetic acid and butyric acid were produced by the anaerobic fermentation of soil mixed with wheat or rice bran. The concentration of acetic acid produced in the wheat and rice bran-treated soil was 31.2 mM and 8 mM, respectively, whereas the concentration of butyric acid in the wheat and rice bran-treated soil was 25.0 mM and 8 mM, respectively. The minimal fungicidal concentration (MFC) for all the fungal strains was 40-60 mM acetic acid, 20-40 mM butyric acid, and 40-60 mM mixture of acetic acid: butyric acid (1:1, v/v). Consequently, the efficacy of mixing wheat-bran with soil to control soil diseases was demonstrated.
18051333	Conidial adhesion and appressorium formation of Magnaporthe oryzae on the rice surface are important early events in the infection process. As an initiative step to understand the mechanisms underlying these cellular processes at a biochemical level, the effect of a human fibronectin antibody (HFA) and RGD peptides on conidial adhesion and appressorium formation was evaluated. HFA inhibited conidial adhesion and appressorium formation in a dosage-dependent manner. RGD peptides also inhibited these cellular events. Conidial adhesion and appressorium formation inhibited by RGD peptides were restored by chemicals involved in the cyclic AMP-dependent signaling pathway. These results suggest that extracellular matrix proteins might be involved in conidial adhesion and appressorium formation through integrin-like receptor mediation and modulation of cAMP-dependent signaling in the cells.
18051758	Black rice (Oryza sativa L. var. japonica) has been used in folk medicine in Asia. To understand the effects of black rice hydrolyzed peptides (BRP) from germinated black rice, we assessed the expression levels of about 20,000 transcripts in BRP-treated HaCaT keratinocytes using human 1A oligo microarray analysis. As a result, the BRP treatment showed a differential expression ratio of more than 2-fold: 745 were activated and 1,011 were repressed. One of the most interesting findings was a 2-fold increase in hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2) gene expression by BRP. Semiquantitative RT-PCR showed that BRP increased HAS2 mRNA in dose-dependent manners. ELISA showed that BRP effectively increased hyaluronan (HA) production in HaCaT keratinocytes.
18051861	The expression of plant gene is controlled by its promoter. The isolation and the function analysis of promoter are important for studying the genetic engineering and the regulation expression of plant genes. In this paper, we cloned a promoter, 0s252, which was predicted to be highly expressed in the stem of rice from the EST database. After the construction of the Os252::GUS expression vector, it was transformed into rice. The integration of transgenes into transgenic rice genome was confirmed through PCR analysis. X-Gluc staining showed that Os252 can promote GUS gene expression in leaf, stem and matured seed. GUS enzyme activities driven by Os252 promoter in leaf and seed are about 190% and 250% of that driven by the 35S promoter. Thus, the Os252 promoter can be applied for rice genetic engineering.
18051990	To investigate the colon's development in rats subjected to protein energy malnutrition followed by supplementation with rice bran. Weaned Wistar male rats (21 days old), weight (40-50 g) were divided into two groups: diet with 17% protein (C; control group) or an aproteic diet (A; aproteic group), for 12 days. After this, 50% of the rats from each group were sacrificed. The remaining rats were further distributed in the three groups for a recovery (21 days): control (C) continued to receive the control diet whereas the aproteic group (A) received either a control diet (AC) or a control diet supplemented with 5% of rice bran (ARB). The A group showed alterations in the colon and cecum, excreted dry feces mass and fecal nitrogen, compared with C rats. In the proximal colon of A rats, the external muscularis and the width of the colon wall were higher whereas in the distal colon they were lower than C. After the recovery period, the relative cecum mass, colon mass and colon length of the recovered groups (AC and ARB) were higher than in the C group. Dry feces and fecal nitrogen excreted of the rats from recovered groups were lower than C group. Colon length of the AC group was lower than in the C group. Only the crypt's depth from ARB group was higher than in the C group. Control diet supplemented with 5% rice bran, reestablished the large intestine of aproteic rats. The recovery in the ARB group was even better than in the AC rats.
18052121	Two low phytic acid (lpa) rice mutant lines, Os-lpa-XS110-1 and Os-lpa-XS110-2, were grown together with their parent wild-type variety Xiushui 110 in four field trials. HPLC analysis of inositol phosphates in the seeds produced demonstrated that compared to the wild-type, the reduction in phytic acid content in Os-lpa-XS110-1 (-46%) was more pronounced than that in Os-lpa-XS110-2 (-23%). Lower inositol phosphates (InsP 3, InsP 4, InsP 5) were not detected in the mutants. The lpa mutants and the wild-type rice were subjected to comparative metabolite profiling by capillary gas chromatography. On average, 34% (Os-lpa-XS110-1) and 42% (Os-lpa-XS110-2) of the detected peaks were statistically significantly different between wild-type and mutants. However, only a few of these differences could be consistently observed for all field trials. Identification and quantification of the consistently different metabolites revealed that contents of myo-inositol and raffinose were increased in Os-lpa-XS110-1 but decreased in Os-lpa-XS110-2 compared to the wild-type. In addition, Os-lpa-XS110-1 exhibited increased levels of galactose and galactinol. Consideration of these metabolic changes in light of the routes involved in the biosynthesis of phytic acid indicated a disturbance in the early biosynthetic pathway of phytic acid in Os-lpa-XS110-2 (similar to the lpa-1 type mutation in maize) and a mutation event affecting phosphorylation of myo-inositol in Os-lpa-XS110-1 (similar to the lpa-3-type mutation).
18052190	In this paper, we report a detailed analysis of the breakdown kinetic mechanism for methyl butanoate (MB) using theoretical approaches. Electronic structures and structure-related molecular properties of reactants, intermediates, products, and transition states were explored at the BH&HLYP/cc-pVTZ level of theory. Rate constants for the unimolecular and bimolecular reactions in the temperature range of 300-2500 K were calculated using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus and transition state theories, respectively. Thirteen pathways were identified leading to the formation of small compounds such as CH(3), C(2)H(3), CO, CO(2), and H(2)CO. For the initial formation of MB radicals, H, CH(3), and OH were considered as reactive radicals participating in hydrogen abstraction reactions. Kinetic simulation results for a high temperature pyrolysis environment show that MB radicals are mainly produced through hydrogen abstraction reactions by H atoms. In addition, the C(O)OCH(3) = CO + CH(3)O reaction is found to be the main source of CO formation. The newly computed kinetic sub-model for MB breakdown is recommended as a core component to study the combustion of oxygenated species.
18052543	microRNAs (miRNAs) are important post-transcriptional regulators, but the extent of this regulation is uncertain, both with regard to the number of miRNA genes and their targets. Using an algorithm based on intragenomic matching of potential miRNAs and their targets coupled with support vector machine classification of miRNA precursors, we explore the potential for regulation by miRNAs in three plant genomes: Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, and Oryza sativa. We find that the intragenomic matching in conjunction with a supervised learning approach contains enough information to allow reliable computational prediction of miRNA candidates without requiring conservation across species. Using this method, we identify approximately 1,200, approximately 2,500, and approximately 2,100 miRNA candidate genes capable of extensive base-pairing to potential target mRNAs in A. thaliana, P. trichocarpa, and O. sativa, respectively. This is more than five times the number of currently annotated miRNAs in the plants. Many of these candidates are derived from repeat regions, yet they seem to contain the features necessary for correct processing by the miRNA machinery. Conservation analysis indicates that only a few of the candidates are conserved between the species. We conclude that there is a large potential for miRNA-mediated regulatory interactions encoded in the genomes of the investigated plants. We hypothesize that some of these interactions may be realized under special environmental conditions, while others can readily be recruited when organisms diverge and adapt to new niches.
18052889	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) and brown planthoppers (BPH) (Nilaparvata lugens Stl) provide an ideal system for studying molecular mechanisms involved in the interactions between plants and phloem-feeding insects. The phenotypic responses and changes in transcript profiles of seedlings representing two rice cultivars differing in resistance to the BPH were analyzed. In the BPH-compatible (susceptible) cv. MH63, BPH feeding reduced three examined plant growth parameters (leaf area expansion, height increases, and dry weight increases) and photosynthetic rates of the leaves. In the BPH-incompatible (resistant) cv. B5, BPH feeding caused slight reductions in protein and sucrose contents, but the plants maintained their photosynthetic activity and grew normally. A cDNA microarray containing 1,920 suppression subtractive hybridization clones was used to explore the transcript profiles differences in the two cultivars under control and BPH-feeding conditions. In total, 160 unique genes were detected as being significantly affected by BPH feeding in rice plants, covering a wide range of functional categories, and there were 38 genes that showed the similar transcript pattern in both genotypes. The physiological responses and transcript profiles of plants represented in both genotypes suggested that multiple pathways might be involved in reprogramming of BPH-infested rice plants. The differences in transcript levels between the compatible and incompatible interactions revealed in this study were not only the reaction of resistance and susceptibility but also reflections of different damage rates and genotypic backgrounds of the rice cultivars.
18053269	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a pathogen associated molecular pattern (PAMP) of animal and plant pathogenic bacteria. Variation at the interstrain level is common in LPS biosynthetic gene clusters of animal pathogenic bacteria. This variation has been proposed to play a role in evading the host immune system. Even though LPS is a modulator of plant defense responses, reports of interstrain variation in LPS gene clusters of plant pathogenic bacteria are rare. In this study we report the complete sequence of a variant 19.9 kb LPS locus present in the BXO8 strain of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the bacterial blight pathogen of rice. This region is completely different in size, number and organization of genes from the LPS locus present in most other strains of Xoo from India and Asia. Surprisingly, except for one ORF, all the other ORFs at the BXO8 LPS locus are orthologous to the genes present at this locus in a sequenced strain of X. axonopodis pv. citri (Xac; a pathogen of citrus plants). One end of the BXO8 LPS gene cluster, comprised of ten genes, is also present in the related rice pathogen, X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc). In Xoc, the remainder of the LPS gene cluster, consisting of seven genes, is novel and unrelated to LPS gene clusters of any of the sequenced xanthomonads. We also report substantial interstrain variation suggestive of very recent horizontal gene transfer (HGT) at the LPS biosynthetic locus of Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc), the black rot pathogen of crucifers. Our analyses indicate that HGT has altered the LPS locus during the evolution of Xanthomonas oryzae pathovars and suggest that the ancestor of all Xanthomonas oryzae pathovars had an Xac type of LPS gene cluster. Our finding of interstrain variation in two major xanthomonad pathogens infecting different hosts suggests that the LPS locus in plant pathogenic bacteria, as in animal pathogens, is under intense diversifying selection.
18054067	Ammonia (NH(3)) volatilization from a paddy field following applications of urea was measured. Two lysimeters of Gray Lowland soil with a pH (H(2)O) of 5.7 were used for the experiment. Urea was applied at a rate of 50 kg N ha(-1) by incorporation as the basal fertilization (BF) and at rates of 30 and 10 kg N ha(-1) by top-dressing as the first (SF1) and second (SF2) supplemental fertilizations, respectively. Two wind tunnels per lysimeter were installed just after BF; one was transplanted with rice plants (PR plot), and the other was without rice plants (NR plot). Weak volatilization was observed at the PR plots after BF. By contrast, strong volatilization was observed at the PR plots after SF1 with a maximum flux of 150 g N ha(-1) h(-1); however, almost no volatilization was observed after SF2. The NH(3) volatilization loss accounted for 2.1%, 20.9%, 0.5%, and 8.2% of the applied urea at each application, BF, SF1, SF2, and the total application, respectively, for which only the net fluxes as volatilization were accumulated. The NH(3) volatilization fluxes from the paddy water surface (F(vol)) at the NR plots were estimated using a film model for its verification. After confirmation of good correlation, the film model was applied to estimate F(vol) at the PR plots. The NH(3) exchange fluxes by rice plants (F(ric)) were obtained by subtracting F(vol) from the observed net NH(3) flux. The derived F(ric) showed that the rice plants emitted NH(3) remarkably just after SF1 when a relatively high rate of urea was applied, although they absorbed atmospheric NH(3) in the other periods. In conclusion, rice plants are essentially an absorber of atmospheric NH(3); however, they turn into an emitter of NH(3) under excess nutrition of ammoniacal nitrogen.
18054161	The objective of this study is to assess the applicability of a commercial magnesium oxide (MgO) and a composite material containing MgO and natural minerals ('MgO-SH-A') as the soil amendments for suppression of cadmium (Cd) uptake and accumulation into rice grains. A cultivation experiment of rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kinuhikari) was conducted in an actual Cd-contaminated alluvial paddy field to evaluate the effectiveness of these materials. The 'plant available' fractions of Cd in the paddy soil significantly decreased by application of commercial MgO at 2250 kg ha(-1) or MgO-SH-A at 4500 kg ha(-1). These decreases would be primarily attributed to the increase in soil pH due to applications of the MgO materials because these soil Cd fractions were significantly negatively correlated with the soil pH. Even under a suppressive condition for Cd uptake by rice plants, i.e., continuous flooding of the paddy field around the heading stage, applications of these materials further reduced Cd concentration in brown rice as compared to that from the control. It was concluded that the two MgO materials examined would be effective in preventing Cd contamination of rice grains grown in Cd-polluted paddy fields.
18054163	Biological treatment system especially, sequencing batch reactor (SBR) system could not be applied to treat the raw electroplating wastewater (EPWW) due to the low organic matter concentration of 10+/-3 mg-BOD5/L and toxic of high cyanide concentration of 23.0+/-2.2 mg-CN/L. However, EPWW could be used as the nitrogen source for the bio-sludge of SBR system. And 10% of EPWW (the final cyanide concentration of 2.3+/-0.2 mg/L) was most suitable to supplement into the wastewater as the nitrogen source. SBR system showed the highest COD, BOD5, TKN and cyanide removal efficiencies of 79+/-2%, 85+/-3%, 49.0+/-2.1% and 97.7+/-0.7%, respectively with 4-times diluted Thai-rice noodle wastewater (TRNWW) containing 10% EPWW and 138 mg/L NH4Cl (BOD5: TN of 100:10) at SRT of 72+/-13 days (under organic and cyanide loadings of 0.40 kg-BOD5/m3 d and 0.0023 kg-CN/m3 d, respectively). However, the effluent ammonia was still high of 22.6+/-0.4 mg-N/L while the effluent nitrate and nitrite was only 9.9+/-0.4 and 1.2+/-0.9 mg-N/L, respectively. And SVI and effluent SS of the system were higher than 95 and 75 mg/L, respectively.
18054164	A biosorption procedure for separation-enrichment of aluminum in environmental samples has been presented in this work. Pseudomonas aeruginosa loaded on Chromosorb 106 has been used as biosorbent for that purpose. P. aeruginosa is a gram-negative, aerobic rod. The influences of pH of the aqueous solution, eluent type, eluent volume, sample volume, etc. were examined on the quantitative recovery of aluminum in P. aeruginosa loaded on Chromosorb 106. The effects of concomitant ions on the recoveries of aluminum were also investigated. The detection limit based on 3 sigma for aluminum is 30 ng L(-1). Three certified reference materials (LGC 6010 Hard Drinking Water, NIST-SRM 1568a Rice Flour and NRCC-DORM-2 Dogfish Muscle) were analyzed for the validation of the presented procedure. The proposed procedure was applied to the determination of aluminum in environmental samples including natural water and food samples. The concentration of aluminum in real samples was found at ppb level.
18054244	Cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) form a conserved superfamily of eukaryotic serine/threonine protein kinases which require binding to a regulatory cyclin for activity. CDKs are organized in several gene families and are involved in different aspects of cell biology, such as gene transcription, cell proliferation and differentiation. In this study, we present the characteristics of the rice C-type CDK gene, Orysa;CDKC;1. The gene was expressed in all organs of the plant and relatively high amounts of its transcript were detected in mature leaves and panicles. This indicated a putative role during later stages of leaf and panicle development. Using yeast two-hybrid analysis, we identified Orysa;CYCT as an interactor with Orysa;CDKC;1. The expression profiles of the new Orysa;CDKC;1 in response to various factors from rice cells were compared with those of previously described Orysa;CDKA;1, and Orysa;CDKB2;1. The Orysa;CDKC;1 transcript was induced by salt stress and ABA treatments, but was unaffected by mannitol. In addition, the MBP kinase activity associated with Orysa;CDKC;1 immunocomplexes was induced under salt stress. We propose that Orysa;CDKC;1 may be involved in developmental programs, as well as in the salt- and ABA-signaling pathway.
18054431	In this work two modified agricultural residues, rice hull and sawdust were examined as sorbents to remove heavy metals Pb(II), Cd(II), Zn(II), Cu(II) and Ni(II) from synthetic solutions or wastewater samples. To modify their sorptive characteristics, samples were treated with HCl, NaOH and heat. The sorption of the heavy metals from the synthetic solutions was increased with pH and initial concentration. In pH 5, Pb(II) and Cd(II) showed the highest sorption and Cu(II), Zn(II) and Ni(II) showed the following orders, respectively. Sorption capacity of rice hull was higher than sawdust. The modifications changed the sorption capacity of the natural sorbents in the following order base>heat>natural>acid. The sorption isotherms of sorbents were best described by the Freundlich and Langmuir models. The basic treated rice hull and sawdust followed by the heat treated rice hull sorbed the maximum of heavy metals from the industrial wastewater samples. In the column experiment, the synthetic solutions and the wastewater samples gave almost the same results as the suspensions. The recovery of the columns using water and HCl showed positive results. Commercial sorbents removed Pb(II), Zn(II) and Ni(II) a little more than rice hull.
18057036	The response of whole-plant water-use efficiency, termed transpiration efficiency (TE), to variation in soil fertility was assessed in a tropical pioneer tree, Ficus insipida Willd. Measurements of stable isotope ratios (delta(13)C, delta(18)O, delta(15)N), elemental concentrations (C, N, P), plant growth, instantaneous leaf gas exchange, and whole-plant water use were used to analyse the mechanisms controlling TE. Plants were grown individually in 19 l pots with non-limiting soil moisture. Soil fertility was altered by mixing soil with varying proportions of rice husks, and applying a slow release fertilizer. A large variation was observed in leaf photosynthetic rate, mean relative growth rate (RGR), and TE in response to experimental treatments; these traits were well correlated with variation in leaf N concentration. Variation in TE showed a strong dependence on the ratio of intercellular to ambient CO(2) mole fractions (c(i)/c(a)); both for instantaneous measurements of c(i)/c(a) (R(2)=0.69, P <0.0001, n=30), and integrated estimates based on C isotope discrimination (R(2)=0.88, P <0.0001, n=30). On the other hand, variations in the leaf-to-air humidity gradient, unproductive water loss, and respiratory C use probably played only minor roles in modulating TE in the face of variable soil fertility. The pronounced variation in TE resulted from a combination of the strong response of c(i)/c(a) to leaf N, and inherently high values of c(i)/c(a) for this tropical tree species; these two factors conspired to cause a 4-fold variation among treatments in (1-c(i)/c(a)), the term that actually modifies TE. Results suggest that variation in plant N status could have important implications for the coupling between C and water exchange in tropical forest trees.
18057047	The various degrees of preharvest sprouting occurring in hybrid rice is a limiting factor in the propagation and production of hybrid rice seeds. The phenotype of sprouted rice is very similar to that of the maize (Zea mays) seed-specific mutation viviparous 1. VP1 has been shown to be a transcription factor essential for seed maturation and dormancy induction. In this study, numerous truncated transcripts of OsVP1 resulting from an unusual post-transcriptional processing, were detected in four rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars. The observed events took place at a region spanning exons 1 to 5, and led to a variety of deletions that resulted in the loss of functional domain and frame-shifts with premature termination by introducing a stop codon. Various proportions of the transcripts expressed in both immature and mature embryos were observed to be incorrectly processed and associated with the genetic variation of preharvest sprouting rates among various rice varieties. In sprouting-susceptible rice cultivars, G46B and HeiB, many more incorrectly processed OsVP1 transcripts were expressed in immature than in mature embryos, indicating that the unusual post-transcriptional processing of the OsVP1 gene was developmentally regulated. In addition, comprehensive sequence analyses demonstrated the presence of paired short direct repeats (SDRs) at the junctions of the unusual excision sites in exons of OsVP1 gene. Site selection for the deletion of exon materials was altered along with the genotypes and developmental stages.
18058709	Resistance genes (R-genes) are responsible for the first interaction of the plant with pathogens being responsible for the activation (or not) of the defense response. Despite their importance and abundance, no tools for their automatic annotation are available yet. The present study analyzed R-genes in the sugarcane expressed sequence tags database which includes 26 libraries of different tissues and development stages comprising 237,954 expressed sequence tags. A new annotation routine was used in order to avoid redundancies and overestimation of R-gene number, common mistakes in previous evaluations. After in silico screening, 280 R-genes were identified, with 196 bearing the complete domains expected. Regarding the alignments, most of the sugarcane's clusters yielded best matches with proteins from Oryza sativa, probably due to the prevalence of sequences of this monocot in data banks. All R-gene classes were found except the subclass LRR-NBS-TIR (leucine-rich repeats, nucleotide-binding site, including Toll interleukin-1 receptors), with prevalence of the kinase (Pto-like) class. R-genes were expressed in all libraries, but flowers, transition root to shoot, and roots were the most representative, suggesting that in sugarcane the expression of R-genes in non-induced conditions prevails in these tissues. In leaves, only low level of expression was found for some gene classes, while others were completely absent. A high allelic diversity was found in all classes of R-genes, sometimes showing best alignments with dicotyledons, despite the great number of genes from rice, maize and other grasses deposited in data banks. The results and future possibilities regarding R-genes in sugarcane research and breeding are further discussed.
18059057	The present work reports the extraction and clean-up procedures, as well as the chromatographic conditions developed, for the determination of cafenstrole and its metabolite (CHM-03) residues in brown rice grains and rice straw using HPLC-UV detection. The method makes use of an Apollo C(18) column and acetonitrile : water : acetic acid as a mobile phase for both cafenstrole and its metabolite in rice and rice straw. Using these conditions cafenstrole and its metabolite were resolved with a retention time (R(t)) of less than 14 min. The analytes were confirmed using positive atmospheric pressure ionization LC-MS with selected ion monitoring. The average recoveries of cafenstrole were found to be 87.0-92.5 and 87.6-88.3%. However, they ranged from 81.5 to 81.6% and from 76.1 to 78.5% for cafenstrole metabolite (CHM-03), in rice grains and rice straw, respectively, with relative standard deviations ranging from 1.4 to 6.6%. The limits of detection (LODs) of both cafenstrole and its metabolite were 0.002 and 0.02 ppm and 0.025 and 0.04 ppm, respectively. Field trials with recommended or double the recommended dose revealed that the herbicide could safely be recommended for application in rice and rice straw as no residues were detected in the harvest samples.
18059553	Wheat-barley disomic and ditelosomic chromosome addition lines have been used as genetic tools for a range of applications since their development in the 1980s. In the present study, we used the Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip for comparative transcript analysis of the barley cultivar Betzes, the wheat cultivar Chinese Spring, and Chinese Spring - Betzes ditelosomic chromosome addition lines to physically map barley genes to their respective chromosome arm locations. We mapped 1257 barley genes to chromosome arms 1HS, 2HS, 2HL, 3HS, 3HL, 4HS, 4HL, 5HS, 5HL, 7HS, and 7HL based on their transcript levels in the ditelosomic addition lines. The number of genes assigned to individual chromosome arms ranged from 24 to 197. We validated the physical locations of the genes through comparison with our previous chromosome-based physical mapping, comparative in silico mapping with rice and wheat, and single feature polymorphism (SFP) analysis. We found our physical mapping of barley genes to chromosome arms to be consistent with our previous physical mapping to whole chromosomes. In silico comparative mapping of barley genes assigned to chromosome arms revealed that the average genomic synteny to wheat and rice chromosome arms was 63.2% and 65.5%, respectively. In the 1257 mapped genes, we identified SFPs in 924 genes between the appropriate ditelosomic line and Chinese Spring that supported physical map placements. We also identified a single small rearrangement event between rice chromosome 9 and barley chromosome 4H that accounts for the loss of synteny for several genes.
18060384	Twenty-three nitrogen-fixing bacteria were isolated from surface-sterilized stems and roots of wild rice Oryza rufipogon. Four clusters were defined among these bacteria by SDS-PAGE protein patterns and further confirmed by IS-PCR finger-printing analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the representative strains LS 8 and LS 18 of cluster II formed a monophyletic group sharing 94.0-97.3% similarities with defined enterobacterial species within the genera Salmonella, Citrobacter, Pantoea, Klebsiella, and Enterobacter. DNA-DNA hybridization, physiological, biochemical tests, and cell morphology also revealed that these strains could be differentiated from the related enterobacterial species. Based upon these results, we propose Phytobacter diazotrophicus gen. nov., sp. nov. to the bacterial group represented by strains LS 8 and LS 18. The type strain is LS 8(T) (=DSM 17806(T) = LMG 23328(T) = CGMCC 1.5339(T)). The DNA G+C content of strain LS 8(T) is 58.6 +/- 0.5 mol%.
1806042	We report the complete sequence of one functional member of the Em gene family whose expression in wheat embryos is regulated by a complex set of environmental and developmental controls, including the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA). The Em coding region contains one short intron, and there is an inverted repeat in the transcribed 3'-flanking region. A 646 bp fragment from the 5' promoter, which was previously shown to direct ABA-regulated expression in transformed tobacco tissue and rice cells, is characterized by: (1) three stretches of between 33 and 73 nucleotides of A/T rich (greater than 86%) boxes, (2) one copy of an eight bp palindrome (CATGCATG) which is identical to the RY repeat found in the 5' promoters of many legume genes expressed during embryo development, (3) 15 copies of a six bp repeat (PuCACGPy), found primarily in the 5' region, and (4) two sequences in the ABA-response region, CGAGCAG and a CACGT motif, both of which are conserved in 5' non-coding regions of other plant genes that are expressed in response to ABA and/or in embryos. These sequence comparisons are discussed in relation to the regulation of Em gene expression and other ABA-regulated genes.
18062264	On the basis of the sequencing of the N-terminal amino acid of the crystal protein, a nucleotide acid fragment harboring a novel nematicidal gene cry6Aa2 was obtained from Bacillus thuringiensis strain YBT-1518. This fragment contains two ORFs: orf1 and orf2, while a "stem-loop" exists between orf1 and orf2. BLAST showed the similarity of orf1 nucleotide acid sequence with cry6Aa1 is 98%, and has been deposited in the Genbank database (Acc. No. AF499736). The cloning fragment was transferred to crystal negative mutation strain BMB171 by E. coli-Bt shuttle vector pHT304. A 54kDa protein with similarity to strain YBT-1518 was detected in recombinant strain, and rice shaped crystal was detected with transmission electron microscope. Bioassay indicated the LC50 of recombinant strain against second lavae juvenile of Meloidgyne hapla is 9.47 microg/mL, nearly equal to the original strain YBT-1518 (10.74 microg/mL).
18062296	A field experiment with four treatments of rice-duck farming was conducted in the Zengcheng Teaching and Research Base of South China Agricultural University to further understand the effects of this farming system on the physiological characters of rice. The results showed that rice-duck farming could decrease the plasma membrane permeability and the malondialdehyde and proline contents of rice leaves, but increase their soluble sugar content and superoxide dismutase, peroxidase and catalase activities, indicating that this farming system had positive effects to the improvement of rice plant resistance and the postponement of leaf aging, being of significance on the rice growth and development.
18062327	This paper revaluated the situation of cadmium (Cd) pollution in rice field soils of Zhangshi irrigation area in Shenyang. The results indicated that the soil Cd pollution of test area was still quite serious. The Cd content in brown rice samples ranged from 0.435 to 0.855 mg x kg(-1), which exceeded the national criteria for food sanitation in China, and increased by 335%-755% compared with that 20 years ago. Brown rice Cd had a significant negative correlation with soil pH, and a positive correlation with soil available Cd. The decrease of soil pH induced more soil Cd transformed into available Cd which occupied 22.8%-52.0% of the total Cd and was easy to be absorbed by rice plant, inducing the Cd in brown rice exceeded national criteria. The pollutant Cd could transfer along with surface runoff, ground water and flying dust, making the pollution extend gradually.
18062840	To characterise the diet of First Nations in north-western Ontario, highlight foods for a lifestyle intervention and develop a quantitative food-frequency questionnaire (QFFQ). Cross-sectional survey using single 24 h dietary recalls. Eight remote and semi-remote First Nations reserves in north-western Ontario. 129 First Nations (Oji-Cree and Ojibway) men and women aged between 18 and 80 years. The greatest contributors to energy were breads, pasta dishes and chips (contributing over 20 % to total energy intake). 'Added fats' such as butter and margarine added to breads and vegetables made up the single largest source of total fat intake (8.4 %). The largest contributors to sugar were sugar itself, soda and other sweetened beverages (contributing over 45 % combined). The mean number of servings consumed of fruits, vegetables and dairy products were much lower than recommended. The mean daily meat intake was more than twice that recommended. A 119-item QFFQ was developed including seven bread items, five soups or stews, 24 meat- or fish-based dishes, eight rice or pasta dishes, nine fruits and 14 vegetables. Frequency of consumption was assessed by eight categories ranging from 'Never or less than one time in one month' to 'two or more times a day'. We were able to highlight foods for intervention to improve dietary intake based on the major sources of energy, fat and sugar and the low consumption of fruit and vegetable items. The QFFQ is being used to evaluate a diet and lifestyle intervention in First Nations in north-western Ontario.
1806393	Twenty eight samples of rice, barley, millet, corn and Indian millet harvested in Korea in 1989 were subjected to assay for contamination of nivalenol (NIV), deoxynivalenol (DON) and T-2 toxin by using gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Seven samples were found to be positive for NIV and DON in the ranges of 189-624 micrograms/kg and 168-506 micrograms/kg, respectively. Of the contaminated samples, three samples, one barley, one Indian millet and one corn sample were contaminated simultaneously with both NIV and DON. T-2 toxin was not detected in any samples.
18064488	Plant growth and crop yields are limited by high-temperature stresses. In this study, we attempted to isolate the rice genes responsible for high-temperature stress tolerance using a transformed Arabidopsis population expressing a full-length cDNA library of rice. From approximately 20,000 lines of transgenic Arabidopsis, we isolated a thermotolerant line, R04333, that could survive transient heat stress at the cotyledon stage. The rice cDNA inserted in R04333 encodes OsHsfA2e, a member of the heat stress transcription factors. The thermotolerant phenotype was observed in newly constructed transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing OsHsfA2e. Among 5 A2-type HSF genes encoded in the rice genome, four genes, including OsHsfA2e, are induced by high temperatures in rice seedlings. The OsHsfA2e protein was localized to the nuclear region and exhibited transcription activation activity in the C-terminal region. Microarray analysis demonstrated that under unstressed conditions transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing OsHsfA2e highly expressed certain stress-associated genes, including several classes of heat-shock proteins. The thermotolerant phenotype was observed not only in the cotyledons but also in rosette leaves, inflorescence stems and seeds. In addition, transgenic Arabidopsis exhibited tolerance to high-salinity stress. These observations suggest that the OsHsfA2e may be useful in molecular breeding designed to improve the environmental stress tolerance of crops.
18064880
18064881
18065169	Targeting persons requiring observation in the Cd-polluted Kakehashi River basin a serial observation study was conducted. Namely we followed the serial changes in 50 subjects who ingested household rice for 10 years after replacement of Cd-polluted soil in rice paddies. The serial changes in urinary substance levels in individuals were determined adjusting for the potential effect of age using a general linear mixed model. Cd excretions decreased with increasing number of years elapsed, with the partial regression coefficients of the number of years elapsed statistically significant in the women. The ratio of the Cd excretion theoretical values at the completion of soil replacement and 10 years later was 0.60 and the reduction rate was calculated as 5.0% per year in women. However, it was surmised that in practice a decrease to the level of inhabitants of non-polluted districts would not be achievable. The indices of renal tubular injury (beta(2)-microglobulin, retinol binding protein (RBP), total protein, amino-N and glucose) with the exception of amino-N in men showed increased excretion in both sexes with increasing number of years elapsed with statistically significant differences in RBP and total protein in both sexes and glucose in men. In this study using a general linear mixed model, which is an appropriate statistical method to perform a follow-up study, Cd concentrations in rice and urine were found to decrease after Cd exposure was reduced, but the degree of renal tubular injury was not found to improve, leading to the conclusion that the renal tubular injury induced by environmental Cd exposure is irreversible.
18065552	The basic leucine (Leu) zipper (bZIP) proteins compose a family of transcriptional regulators present exclusively in eukaryotes. The bZIP proteins characteristically harbor a bZIP domain composed of two structural features: a DNA-binding basic region and the Leu zipper dimerization region. They have been shown to regulate diverse plant-specific phenomena, including seed maturation and germination, floral induction and development, and photomorphogenesis, and are also involved in stress and hormone signaling. We have identified 89 bZIP transcription factor-encoding genes in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome. Their chromosomal distribution and sequence analyses suggest that the bZIP transcription factor family has evolved via gene duplication. The phylogenetic relationship among rice bZIP domains as well as with bZIP domains from other plant bZIP factors suggests that homologous bZIP domains exist in plants. Similar intron/exon structural patterns were observed in the basic and hinge regions of their bZIP domains. Detailed sequence analysis has been done to identify additional conserved motifs outside the bZIP domain and to predict their DNA-binding site specificity as well as dimerization properties, which has helped classify them into different groups and subfamilies, respectively. Expression of bZIP transcription factor-encoding genes has been analyzed by full-length cDNA and expressed sequence tag-based expression profiling. This expression profiling was complemented by microarray analysis. The results indicate specific or coexpression patterns of rice bZIP transcription factors starting from floral transition to various stages of panicle and seed development. bZIP transcription factor-encoding genes in rice also displayed differential expression patterns in rice seedlings in response to abiotic stress and light irradiation. An effort has been made to link the structure and expression pattern of bZIP transcription factor-encoding genes in rice to their function, based on the information obtained from our analyses and earlier known results. This information will be important for functional characterization of bZIP transcription factors in rice.
18066072	We established a protocol to construct complete recombinant genomes from their small contiguous DNA pieces and obtained the genomes of mouse mitochondrion and rice chloroplast using a B. subtilis genome (BGM) vector. This method allows the design of any recombinant genomes, valuable not only for fundamental research in systems biology and synthetic biology but also for various applications in the life sciences.
18066474	The aim of the study was to assess the reproducibility and validity of the previous day food questionnaire (PDFQ) for schoolchildren. The questionnaire is illustrated with 21 foods and was designed for use at group level. The participants were 131 schoolchildren aged eight to ten years who were studying full-time in a public school in a city of Southern Brazil, in 2005. Reproducibility was assessed by applying the questionnaire twice on the same day. Validity was assessed by comparing the food items selected on the questionnaire and direct observations from three school meals on the previous day. The questionnaire presented high sensitivity, ranging from 73.4% (beans) to 95.5% (rice), and high specificity, ranging from 87.3% (fruits) to 98.8% (beans). It was concluded that the questionnaire was capable of generating reproducible and valid data for assessing the food intake of schoolchildren on the previous day.
18066688	Retrotransposons comprise a significant fraction of the rice genome. Despite their prevalence, the effects of retrotransposon insertions are not well understood, especially with regard to how they affect the expression of genes. In this study, we identified one-sixth of rice genes as being associated with retrotransposons, with insertions either in the gene itself or within its putative promoter region. Among genes with insertions in the promoter region, the likelihood of the gene being expressed was shown to be directly proportional to the distance of the retrotransposon from the translation start site. In addition, retrotransposon insertions in the transcribed region of the gene were found to be positively correlated with the presence of alternative splicing forms. Furthermore, preferential association of retrotransposon insertions with genes in several functional classes was identified. Some of the retrotransposons that are part of full-length cDNA (fl-cDNA) contribute splice sites and give rise to novel exons. Several interesting trends concerning the effects of retrotransposon insertions on gene expression were identified. Taken together, our data suggests that retrotransposon association with genes have a role in gene regulation. The data presented in this study provides a foundation for experimental studies to determine the role of retrotransposons in gene regulation.
18068845	Ochratoxin A (OTA) is the main mycotoxin occurring in cocoa. A study was conducted in Cameroon to assess how filamentous fungi and toxigenesis were affected by the type of cocoa post-harvest treatment (boxes or heaps). The filamentous fungi isolated were almost identical when fermentation was carried out in boxes or heaps, with the presence of abundant black Aspergillus filamentous fungi: A. niger and A. carbonarius. Filamentous fungi were more abundant at the end of the harvesting season. Factors affecting bean integrity (poor handling, deferred processing) resulted in a qualitative and quantitative increase in contamination, when the total number of filamentous fungi could reach a maximum value of 5.5+/-1.4x10(7) CFU g(-1) and black Aspergilli a maximum value of 1.42+/-2.2x10(7) CFU g(-1). A toxigenesis study showed that Aspergillus carbonarius was the main OTA-producing strain isolated. Its maximum production could reach 2.77 microg g(-1) on rice medium. Aspergillus niger strains did not always produce OTA and their toxigenesis was much lower. Fermented dried cocoa from poor quality pods was the most contaminated by OTA: up to 48 ng g(-1).
18068879	This study monitored the influence of arsenic-contaminated irrigation water on alkaline soils and arsenic uptake in agricultural plants at field level. The arsenic concentrations in irrigation water ranges from <0.005 to 1.014 mg L(-1) where the arsenic concentrations in the soils were measured from 6.1 to 16.7 mg As kg(-1). The arsenic content in different parts of plants are found in the order of roots>shoots>leaves>edible parts. The mean arsenic content of edible plant material (dry weight) were found in the order of onion leaves (0.55 mg As kg(-1))>onion bulb (0.45 mg As kg(-1))>cauliflower (0.33 mg As kg(-1))>rice (0.18 mg As kg(-1))>brinjal (0.09 mg As kg(-1))>potato (<0.01 mg As kg(-1)).
18070109	The identification of TUBBY-like genes in organisms ranging from single-celled to multicellular eukaryotes has allowed the phylogenetic history of this gene family to be traced back to the early evolutionary stages of eukaryote development. Rice TUBBY-like genes were located on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11 and 12 without any obvious clustering. On a genomic scale, it was revealed that the rice TUBBY-like gene family probably evolved mainly through segmental duplication produced by polyploidy. The altered selective constraints (or site-specific rate changes), related to functional divergence during protein evolution between plant and animal TUBBY-like genes, were statistically significant. Based on posterior probability analysis, five amino acid sites (103, 312, 315, 317 and 319) are thought to be responsible for functional divergence.
18071239	Momilactones A (1) and B (2), which have been identified as phytoalexins in rice, were isolated from extracts of the moss Hypnum plumaeforme. This is the first isolation and identification of momilactones as allelochemicals from a bryophyte. H. plumaeforme produces considerable amounts of momilactones (isolated yield: 8.4 mg/Kg plant for 1; 4.2 mg/Kg for 2). EtOAc extracts from H. plumaeforme and 2 showed growth inhibitory activity against angiosperms, moss, and liverwort plants. On the other hand, the growth of H. plumaeforme was insensitive to its extract and 2. Our finding suggests that momilactones play an important role as allelochemicals in this moss.
18071241	The textures of cooked rice prepared from aged rice grains and their improvement by reducing agents were investigated. For aged rice that was stored for 5 months without air by the operation of a vacuum packing machine, the stickiness/hardness ratio of cooked rice was as low as that of aged rice stored in air. The results of electrophoresis showed that oxidation of proteins in the former was advanced to the same degree as in the latter. The stickiness/hardness ratios of the aged rice were increased by the addition of sodium sulfite, cysteine, and dithiothreitol to the cooking water. Sodium sulfite, cysteine, and dithiothreitol cleave disulfide bonds to sulfhydryl groups. Therefore, cleaving disulfide bonds to sulfhydryl groups improved the texture. The addition of them to the cooking water also increased the extractable solids at the time of heating. Hence cleaving disulfide bonds to sulfhydryl groups must increase extractable solids. Consequently, the gelatinized paste layer thickened and the thick paste layer softened the cooked rice.
18071242	Human monoclonal antibodies have great potential for use in the treatment of various diseases. We have established an in vitro immunization protocol for inducing antigen-specific antibody production from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). In the in vitro immunization protocol, PBMCs are pretreated with L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester (LLME) to remove suppressive cells, and are sensitized and cultured with a soluble antigen in the presence of IL-2, IL-4 and muramyl dipeptide for 8 d, and then an antigen-specific antibody is produced. In this study, we examined the novel possibility of an in vitro immunization protocol, specifically, whether LLME-treated PBMCs can be sensitized with a peptide antigen to produce an anti-peptide antibody. The results indicate that antigen-specific immune responses were elicited by a peptide antigen derived from rice allergen, a cholera toxin B subunit, and TNF-alpha as a sensitizing antigen in in vitro immunization. These results suggest that the in vitro immunization protocol is applicable in the generation of an anti-peptide antibody against various antigens, including food allergens, foreign antigens, and self-antigens.
18071256	The rice 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductase 1 gene (OsOPR1), isolated as a jasmonic acid (JA)-responsive gene, has been suggested to be involved in defense responses in rice. We identified a 19-base pair region that is essential to the JA-responsiveness of OsOPR1 by deletion and mutation analysis of the promoter by dual luciferase assay. This region contains possible recognition sites for basic leucine zipper transcription factors.
18071364	WRKY transcription factors have many regulatory roles in response to biotic and abiotic stresses. In this study, we isolated a rice WRKY gene (OsWRKY31) that is induced by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and auxin. This gene encodes a polypeptide of 211 amino-acid residues and belongs to a subgroup of the rice WRKY gene family that probably originated after the divergence of monocot and dicot plants. OsWRKY31 was found to be localized to the nucleus of onion epidermis cells to transiently express OsWRKY31-eGFP fusion protein. Analysis of OsWRKY31 and its mutants fused with a Gal4 DNA-binding domain indicated that OsWRKY31 has transactivation activity in yeast. Overexpression of the OsWRKY31 gene was found to enhance resistance against infection with M. grisea, and the transgenic lines exhibited reduced lateral root formation and elongation compared with wild-type and RNAi plants. The lines with overexpression showed constitutive expression of many defense-related genes, such as PBZ1 and OsSci2, as well as early auxin-response genes, such as OsIAA4 and OsCrl1 genes. Furthermore, the plants with overexpression were less sensitive to exogenously supplied IBA, NAA and 2,4-D at high concentrations, suggesting that overexpression of the OsWRKY31 gene might alter the auxin response or transport. These results also suggest that OsWRKY31 might be a common component in the signal transduction pathways of the auxin response and the defense response in rice.
18071708	Plant productivity is greatly influenced by various environmental stresses, such as high salinity and drought. Earlier, we reported the isolation of topoisomerase 6 homologs from rice and showed that over expression of OsTOP6A3 and OsTOP6B confers abiotic stress tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. In this study, we have assessed the function of nuclear-localized topoisomerase 6 subunit A homolog, OsTOP6A1, in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The over expression of OsTOP6A1 in transgenic Arabidopsis plants driven by cauliflower mosaic virus-35S promoter resulted in pleiotropic effects on plant growth and development. The transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed reduced sensitivity to stress hormone, abscisic acid (ABA), and tolerance to high salinity and dehydration at the seed germination; seedling and adult stages as reflected by the percentage of germination, fresh weight of seedlings and leaf senescence assay, respectively. Concomitantly, the expression of many stress-responsive genes was enhanced under various stress conditions in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Moreover, microarray analysis revealed that the expression of a large number of genes involved in various processes of plant growth and development and stress responses was altered in transgenic plants. Although AtSPO11-1, the homolog of OsTOP6A1 in Arabidopsis, has been implicated in meiotic recombination; the present study demonstrates possible additional role of OsTOP6A1 and provides an effective tool for engineering crop plants for tolerance to different environmental stresses.
18072594	Isolation of unknown DNA sequences flanked by known sequences is an important task in molecular biology research. Thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR) is an effective method for this purpose. However the success rate of the original TAIL-PCR needs to be increased, and it is more desirable to obtain target products with larger sizes. Here we present a substantially improved TAIL-PCR procedure with special primer design and optimized thermal conditions. This high-efficiency TAIL-PCR (hiTAIL-PCR) combines the advantages of the TAIL-cycling and suppression-PCR, thus it can block the amplification of nontarget products and suppress small target ones, but allow efficient amplification of large target sequences. Using this method, we isolated genomic flanking sequences of T-DNA insertions from transgenic rice lines. In our tests, the success rates of the reactions were higher than 90%, and in most cases the obtained major products had sizes of 1-3 kb.
18072737	We enzymatically modified rice starch to produce highly branched amylopectin and amylose and analyzed the resulting structural changes. To prepare the highly branched amylopectin cluster (HBAPC), we first treated waxy rice starch with Thermus scotoductus alpha-glucanotransferase (TSalphaGT), followed by treatment with Bacillus stearothermophilus maltogenic amylase (BSMA). Highly branched amylose (HBA) was prepared by incubating amylose with Bacillus subtilis 168 branching enzyme (BBE) and subsequently treating it with BSMA. The molecular weight of TSalphaGT-treated waxy rice starch was reduced from 8.9 x 10(8) to 1.2 x 10(5) Da, indicating that the alpha-1,4 glucosidic linkage of the segment between amylopectin clusters was hydrolyzed. Analysis of the amylopectin cluster side chains revealed that a rearrangement in the side-chain length distribution occurred. Furthermore, HBAPC and HBA were found to contain significant numbers of branched maltooligosaccharide side chains. In short, amylopectin molecules of waxy rice starch were hydrolyzed into amylopectin clusters by TSalphaGT in the enzymatic modification process, and then further branched by transglycosylation using BSMA. HBAPC and HBA showed higher water solubility and stability against retrogradation than amylopectin clusters or branched amylose. The hydrolysis rates of HBAPC and HBA by glucoamylase and alpha-amylase greatly decreased. The k cat/ K m value of glucoamylase acting on the amylopectin cluster was 45.94 s(-1)(mg/mL)(-1) and that for glucoamylase acting on HBAPC was 11.10 s(-1)(mg/mL)(-1), indicating that HBAPC was 4-fold less susceptible to glucoamylase. The k cat/ K m value for HBA was 15.90 s(-1)(mg/mL)(-1), or about three times less than that for branched amylose. The k cat/ K m values of porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase for HBAPC and HBA were 496 and 588 s(-1)(mg/mL)(-1), respectively, indicating that HBA and HBAPC are less susceptible to hydrolysis by glucoamylase and alpha-amylase. HBAPC and HBA show potential as novel glucan polymers with low digestibility and high water solubility.
18072738	Red yeast rice obtained as cultures of Monascus AS3.4444 on rice was extracted and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Two new Monascus metabolites with similar fluorescence spectra (lambda ex = 396 nm, lambda em = 460 nm) and UV absorption spectra (lambda max = 386 nm) were detected. They were isolated by rechromatography on a silica gel column and semipreparative HPLC, and two strong blue fluorescent compounds were obtained. Their structures were elucidated by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS), electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS), intensive ESI-MS, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, COSY, and HMBC) studies. High-resolution mass spectrometry indicated the molecular formulas C 21H 24O 5 and C 23H 28O 5. The two new compounds, named monasfluore A and monasfluore B, respectively, contain a alkyl side chain, gamma-lactone, and propenyl group, whereas the more lipophilic compound, monasfluore B, is a higher homologue of monasfluore A, with the more lipophilic octanoyl instead of the hexanoyl side chain.
18073194	The PlantTribes database (http://fgp.huck.psu.edu/tribe.html) is a plant gene family database based on the inferred proteomes of five sequenced plant species: Arabidopsis thaliana, Carica papaya, Medicago truncatula, Oryza sativa and Populus trichocarpa. We used the graph-based clustering algorithm MCL [Van Dongen (Technical Report INS-R0010 2000) and Enright et al. (Nucleic Acids Res. 2002; 30: 1575-1584)] to classify all of these species' protein-coding genes into putative gene families, called tribes, using three clustering stringencies (low, medium and high). For all tribes, we have generated protein and DNA alignments and maximum-likelihood phylogenetic trees. A parallel database of microarray experimental results is linked to the genes, which lets researchers identify groups of related genes and their expression patterns. Unified nomenclatures were developed, and tribes can be related to traditional gene families and conserved domain identifiers. SuperTribes, constructed through a second iteration of MCL clustering, connect distant, but potentially related gene clusters. The global classification of nearly 200 000 plant proteins was used as a scaffold for sorting approximately 4 million additional cDNA sequences from over 200 plant species. All data and analyses are accessible through a flexible interface allowing users to explore the classification, to place query sequences within the classification, and to download results for further study.
18073417	Transposable elements (TEs) represent approximately 45% of the human genome and 50-90% of some grass genomes. While most elements contain inactivating mutations, others are reversibly inactivated (silenced) by epigenetic mechanisms, including cytosine methylation. Previous studies have shown that retrotransposons can influence the expression of adjacent host genes. In this study, the methylation patterns of TEs and their flanking sequences in different tissues were undertaken using a novel technique called transposon methylation display (TMD). TMD was successfully applied on a highly copied (approximately 1000 copies), newly amplified LTR retrotransposon family in rice called Dasheng. We determined that the methylation status of a subset of LTRs varies in leaves vs. roots. In addition, we determined that tissue-specific LTR methylation correlated with tissue-specific expression of the flanking rice gene. Genes showing tissue-specific expression were in opposite orientation relative to the LTR. Antisense transcripts were detected in the tissue where the sense transcripts from that gene were not detected. Comparative analysis of Dasheng LTR methylation in the two subspecies, japonica vs. indica revealed LTR-mediated differences in subspecies gene expression. Subspecies-specific expression was due either to polymorphic Dasheng insertion sites between the two subspecies or to subspecies-specific methylation of LTRs at the same locus accounted for observed differences in the expression of adjacent genes.
18074114	The Lr34/Yr18 locus has contributed to durable, non-race specific resistance against leaf rust (Puccinia triticina) and stripe rust (P. striiformis f. sp. tritici) in wheat (Triticum aestivum). Lr34/Yr18 also cosegregates with resistance to powdery mildew (Pm38) and a leaf tip necrosis phenotype (Ltn1). Using a high resolution mapping family from a cross between near-isogenic lines in the "Thatcher" background we demonstrated that Lr34/Yr18 also cosegregated with stem rust resistance in the field. Lr34/Yr18 probably interacts with unlinked genes to provide enhanced stem rust resistance in "Thatcher". In view of the relatively low levels of DNA polymorphism reported in the Lr34/Yr18 region, gamma irradiation of the single chromosome substitution line, Lalbahadur(Parula7D) that carries Lr34/Yr18 was used to generate several mutant lines. Characterisation of the mutants revealed a range of highly informative genotypes, which included variable size deletions and an overlapping set of interstitial deletions. The mutants enabled a large number of wheat EST derived markers to be mapped and define a relatively small physical region on chromosome 7DS that carried Lr34/Yr18. Fine scale genetic mapping confirmed the physical mapping and identified a genetic interval of less than 0.5 cM, which contained Lr34/Yr18. Both rice and Brachypodium genome sequences provided useful information for fine mapping of ESTs in wheat. Gene order was more conserved between wheat and Brachypodium than with rice but these smaller grass genomes did not reveal sequence information that could be used to identify a candidate gene for rust resistance in wheat. We predict that Lr34/Yr18 is located within a large insertion in wheat not found at syntenic positions in Brachypodium and rice.
18074229	This study investigated whether the consumption of a diet in which high-beta-glucan barley replaced rice would reduce the visceral fat area as well as the serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and total cholesterol (TC) in hypercholesterolemic Japanese men. A randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled intervention study was conducted in 44 hypercholesterolemic Japanese men with a body mass index (BMI) >22 kg/m2. The subjects were randomly assigned to groups consuming either rice (placebo group) or a mixture of rice and pearl barley with a high beta-glucan content (test group, 7.0 g beta-glucan per day) for 12 weeks. Blood samples were taken, and CT scan obtained before the trial and every four weeks during the trial. The pearl barley intake significantly reduced serum concentrations of LDL-C (P = 0.041) and TC (P = 0.037) during the trial. Significant differences between the test and placebo groups were found for the visceral fat (P = 0.039), BMI (P = 0.015), and waist circumference (P = 0.011) at the end point. The consumption of pearl barley with a high beta-glucan content reduces not only LDL-C but also visceral fat area.
18074233	As well known, at normal levels, copper and zinc are essential micronutrients for plants, animals, and humans. However, excessive Cu and Zn are toxic and disturb a wide range of biochemical and physiological processes. Using Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer (AAS; Perkin-Elmer 3030, USA), soil and rice plant (Oryza sativa L.) samples collected from a paddy field in Lechang lead-zinc mine area, Guangdong Province, China were analyzed and their potential ecological impacts to local human and livestock were evaluated. The results showed that the paddy soils were contaminated with Cu and Zn. Both metals in soils had low bio-available fractions for paddy plants, animal and human by three chemically analytical techniques. Generally, were concentrations of copper and zinc root > straw > stalk > grain with hull > grain without hull (i.e. unpolished rice) and in the normal ranges indicating no ecological risk for local livestock and residents. All positive correlation coefficients, however, between heavy metals in rice plant and total, exchangeable (step 1 in Tessier's method established in 1979) and DTPA-extractable fractions in soils were found in this study indicating that elevated heavy metal in soils would increase long-term exposition and possible consequence of ecological hazard through food chains.
18075222	Rice bran meal is a very good source of protein along with other micronutrients. Rice bran meal has been utilized to produce protein isolates and respective protein hydrolysates for potential application in various food products. De-oiled rice bran meal, available from Indian rice bran oil extraction plants, was initially screened by passing through an 80-mesh sieve (yield about 70%). A fraction (yield-30%) rich in fibre and silica was initially discarded from the meal. The protein content of the through fraction increased from 20.8% to 24.1% whereas silica content reduced from 3.1% to 0.4%. Rice bran protein isolate (RPI) was prepared by alkaline extraction followed by acidic precipitation at isoelectric point. This protein isolate was hydrolysed by papain at pH 8.0 and at 37 degrees C for 10, 20, 30, 45 and 60 minutes. The peptides produced by partial hydrolysis had been evaluated by determining protein solubility, emulsion activity index (EAI), emulsion stability index (ESI), foam capacity and foam stability (FS). All protein hydrolysates showed better functional properties than the original protein isolate. These improved functional properties of rice bran protein hydrolysates would make it useful for various application especially in food, pharmaceutical and related industries.
18077156	Temporal changes in delta(15)N of cattle feedlot manure during its composting with either rice hull (RHM) or sawdust (SDM) as bedding materials were investigated. Regardless of the bedding material used, the delta(15)N of total N in the manure increased sharply from +7.6 per thousand to +9.9 per thousand and from +11.4 per thousand to +14.3 per thousand, respectively, in RHM or SDM, within 10 days from the commencement of composting. Such increases could be attributed primarily to N loss via NH(3) volatilization and denitrification based on the very high delta(15)N values (greater than +20 per thousand) of NH(4)(+) and NO(3)(-) in the co-composted manure. The delta(15)N of total N in RHM was substantially lower (by more than 3 per thousand) than that in SDM, suggesting that the delta(15)N of the composted manure was affected not only by N loss but also by the type of bedding material used. Specifically, the higher N concentration in the rice hull than in the saw dust could lead to a greater (15)N isotope dilution.
1807835	A 5.1 kb segment of pea chloroplast DNA containing the upstream region of petA was sequenced. RNAs produced from this DNA were characterized. This region encodes putative genes for psbK, trnQ, zfpA, psaI, ORF231, and petA. These genes are all on the same reading strand except for psbK. The gene organization is somewhat different from that of tobacco, rice, and liverwort, which lack the psbK-trnQ genes in this region and contain ORF184/185. Northern blot and primer extension analysis show that the pea transcript covers the zfpA-psaI-ORF231-petA gene cluster and trnQ. These results indicated that the psbK-trnQ genes have been rearranged and a new transcription unit was formed.
1807854	The efficacy of permethrin impregnated curtains as a malaria control measure was evaluated in a rice field area nearby Ouagadougou (BF). Two groups of children aged 1-5 years matched for age, sex and malaria exposure, were followed through the rainy season of 1987 for illness and febrile episodes. One group of 118 children lived in houses protected with impregnated curtains, the other in houses without curtains. All children were examined for parasitaemia spleen index packed cell volume (PCV) and antisporozoites antibodies at the beginning and the end of the rainy season. During rainy season no difference could be found in the number of clinical episode between the two groups. A reduction in the prevalence of splenomegaly and parasitaemia and an increase in the PCV was observed during the dry season.
18079606	Three percent milled-rice was evaluated for beneficial effect on blood glucose level and serum lipid concentrations in an experiment with Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rats, used as model animals for spontaneously non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The same experiment was carried out using Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats, the control of the OLETF rats. The results obtained from the rats given a diet containing 3% milled-rice (3% MRD) ad libitum were compared with those from rats given polished rice. During the feeding period of 140 d, body weight of the OLETF rats receiving the 3% MRD was significantly lower than that of the rats fed on the diet containing polished rice (PRD) from the 48th to the 124th days. The body weight of the LETO rats during the both periods of 90 to 104 d and 114 to 140 d was lower than that of the rats receiving the PRD. Though food intakes of the rats receiving 3% MRD were significantly lower in the OLETF and LETO rats during the two periods of days 48 to 124 and days 1 to 140 than in the rats of the PRD group, the feed efficiency of the OLETF or LETO rats did not show significant difference between the 3% MRD and the PRD groups during the same experimental periods. The excretion rate of feces of the OLETF rats receiving the 3% MRD was significantly higher than that of the rats receiving the PRD, both on the 126th day and during the period of days 129 to 131. The fasting blood glucose levels were significantly lower in the OLETF rats receiving the 3% MRD than the rats receiving the PRD on the 84th day, the 105th day and the 127th day, and also lower in the LETO rats receiving the 3% MRD on the 84th day and the 105th day. The incremental areas under the curve of blood glucose concentrations (IAUC-Glc) for 120 min after oral administration of glucose on the 133rd day was lower in the OLETF rats receiving 3% MRD than that of the PRD. The ratio of IAUC-Glc in the 3% MRD to PRD group, after ingestion of diets for 1 h after fasting for 18 h on the 138th day, was 0.89 in the OLETF rats, and 0.74 in the LETO rats. Compared with the PRD group, the amounts of cholesterol and bile acid in the feces of the OLETF rats in the 3% MRD group were significantly higher on days 129-131, and the cholesterol excretion was significantly higher on the 84th day in the OLETF rats in the 3% MRD group. The liver weight, the level of total lipids in liver, and the concentrations of triglyceride and total cholesterol in liver and serum of the OLETF rats on the 140th day were significantly lower in the 3% MRD than those of the PRD group. These results indicate that 3% milled-rice has beneficial effects on blood glucose level and serum lipid concentrations in spontaneously non-insulin-dependent diabetic rats.
18080178	This work investigates intergenerational relations in a rural setting experiencing the transition from rural subsistence to urban industrial economy. Help with harvesting rice from migrant children to their aging parents is used to illustrate changes that occur. The setting is Nang Rong, Thailand, an agricultural region that has experienced social, economic, and demographic transformations in the last three decades. In Nang Rong, out-migrants are young adults. Their parents, who remain in rural villages, are approaching ages where it becomes difficult to do agricultural labor. The migration of young adults contributes to a loss of household labor which puts pressure on households to meet their basic subsistence needs. Rice harvest help from returning or visiting migrants impacts intergenerational relations between adult children and parents. Results show that migrants are more likely to help with the rice harvest if their origin household owns securely titled land, and if the migrant has lower human capital achievements. Parents may use land as a strategic bequest to elicit support, which is consistent with an intergenerational bargaining perspective.
18080288	Seed treatments with the chloronicotinyl insecticide imidacloprid (Gaucho 600 FS) were evaluated to determine whether differences in concentration and exposure regime influence the germination and early growth of rice. Continuous exposure to imidacloprid (4 days at 2000 mg AI L(-1)) significantly (P < 0.001) reduced normal germination by an average of 18% across the 15 cultivars examined. Nine days after sowing, plants showed no adverse effects from continuous imidacloprid treatment during germination, with shoot lengths and root system dry weights equalling, or occasionally exceeding (P < 0.05), those of untreated plants. Short-term imidacloprid exposure (2 h at 2000 mg L(-1)) at initial seed wetting did not affect germination (P > 0.05), and short-term (1 h) exposure of 48 h pregerminated seed to imidacloprid (2000 mg L(-1)) similarly had no significant effect on early subsequent growth. Plants arising from 48 h pregerminated seed exposed to imidacloprid (1 h) at concentrations up to 4000 mg L(-1) immediately before sowing were not significantly different from control plants at either 9 or 25 days post-sowing. Results show that imidacloprid will have no adverse effects on plant growth if applied to pregerminated rice shortly before sowing. Continuous exposure of seed during germination had more pronounced effects, and the initial response of different cultivars was highly variable. Cultivars with high levels of sensitivity (such as IR72) require further testing before continuous exposure to imidacloprid during germination can be recommended.
18081248	Black rice (Oryza sativa L.), an aromatic specialty rice popular in Asia, has a unique flavor, the volatile chemistry of which has not been reported. The objectives of this research were to study volatile profiles of cooked black rice and to characterize the odor-active compounds. Thirty-five volatile compounds were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry using a dynamic headspace system with Tenax trapping. Aldehydes and aromatics were quantitatively in the greatest abundance, accounting for 80.1% of total relative concentration of volatiles. The concentration of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2-AP) was high, exceeded only by hexanal, nonanal, and 2-pentylfuran. A total of 25 odor-active compounds, determined by gas chromatography-olfactometry, were applied to principal component analysis, demonstrating significant differences between a black and a traditional white rice cultivar in terms of aroma and explaining 93.0% of the total variation. 2-AP, guaiacol, indole, and p-xylene largely influenced the difference between the aroma in cooked black and white rice. 2-AP and guaiacol were major contributors to the unique character of black rice based on odor thresholds, relative concentrations, and olfactometry.
18082952	The present study deals with the adsorption of pyridine (Py) from synthetic aqueous solutions by rice husk ash (RHA) and commercial grade granular activated carbon (GAC) and reports on the kinetic, equilibrium and thermodynamic aspects of Py sorption. Batch sorption studies were carried out to evaluate the effect of various parameters, such as adsorbent dose (m), initial pH (pH0), contact time (t), initial concentration (C0) and temperature (T) on the removal of Py. The maximum removal of Py is found to be approximately 96% and approximately 97% at lower concentrations (<50 mg dm(-3)) and approximately 79.5% and approximately 84% at higher concentrations (600 mg dm(-3)) using 50 kg m(-3) and 30 kg m(-3) of RHA and GAC dosage, respectively, at 30+/-1 degrees C. Adsorption of Py is found to be endothermic in nature and the equilibrium data can be adequately represented by Toth and Redlich-Peterson isotherm equations. Py can be recovered from the spent adsorbents by using acidic water and 0.1 N H2SO4. The overall adsorption of Py on RHA and GAC is found to be in the order of GAC>RHA. Comparative assessment of adsorbents used by various investigators available in literature showed the effectiveness of BFA and RHA over other adsorbents. Spent RHA can simply be filtered, dried and used in the boiler furnaces/incinerators. Thus, its heating value can be recovered.
18083797	Rice (Oryza sativa) is the most aluminum (Al)-resistant crop species among the small-grain cereals, but the mechanisms responsible for this trait are still unclear. Using two rice cultivars differing in Al resistance, rice sp. japonica 'Nipponbare' (an Al-resistant cultivar) and rice sp. indica 'Zhefu802' (an Al-sensitive cultivar), it was found that Al content in the root apex (0-10 mm) was significantly lower in Al-resistant 'Nipponbare' than in sensitive 'Zhefu802', with more of the Al localized to cell walls in 'Zhefu802', indicating that an Al exclusion mechanism is operating in 'Nipponbare'. However, neither organic acid efflux nor changes in rhizosphere pH appear to be responsible for the Al exclusion. Interestingly, cell wall polysaccharides (pectin, hemicellulose 1, and hemicellulose 2) in the root apex were found to be significantly higher in 'Zhefu802' than in 'Nipponbare' in the absence of Al, and Al exposure increased root apex hemicellulose content more significantly in 'Zhefu802'. Root tip cell wall pectin methylesterase (PME) activity was constitutively higher in 'Zhefu802' than in 'Nipponbare', although Al treatment resulted in increased PME activity in both cultivars. Immunolocalization of pectins showed a higher proportion of demethylated pectins in 'Zhefu802', indicating a higher proportion of free pectic acid residues in the cell walls of 'Zhefu802' root tips. Al adsorption and desorption kinetics of root tip cell walls also indicated that more Al was adsorbed and bound Al was retained more tightly in 'Zhefu802', which was consistent with Al content, PME activity, and pectin demethylesterification results. These responses were specific to Al compared with other metals (CdCl(2), LaCl(3), and CuCl(2)), and the ability of the cell wall to adsorb these metals was also not related to levels of cell wall pectins. All of these results suggest that cell wall polysaccharides may play an important role in excluding Al specifically from the rice root apex.
18083823	Erwinia chrysanthemi pv. zeae is one of the Erwinia chrysanthemi pathovars that infects on both dicotyledons and monocotyledons. However, little is known about the molecular basis and regulatory mechanisms of its virulence. By using a transposon mutagenesis approach, we cloned the genes coding for an E. chrysanthemi pv. zeae synthase of acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) quorum-sensing signals (expI(Ecz)) and a cognate response regulator (expR(Ecz)). Chromatography analysis showed that expI(Ecz) encoded production of the AHL signal N-(3-oxo-hexanoyl)-homoserine lactone (OHHL). Null mutation of expI(Ecz) in the E. chrysanthemi pv. zeae strain EC1 abolished AHL production, increased bacterial swimming and swarming motility, disabled formation of multicell aggregates, and attenuated virulence of the pathogen on potato tubers. The mutation also marginally reduced the inhibitory activity of E. chrysanthemi pv. zeae on rice seed germination. The mutant phenotypes were rescued by either exogenous addition of AHL signal or in trans expression of expI(Ecz). These data demonstrate that the AHL-type QS signal plays an essential role in modulation of E. chrysanthemi pv. zeae cell motility and the ability to form multicell aggregates and is involved in regulation of bacterial virulence.
18083909	Gibberellins (GAs) play many biological roles in higher plants. We collected and performed genetic analysis on rice (Oryza sativa) GA-related mutants, including GA-deficient and GA-insensitive mutants. Genetic analysis of the mutants revealed that rice GA-deficient mutations are not transmitted as Mendelian traits to the next generation following self-pollination of F1 heterozygous plants, although GA-insensitive mutations are transmitted normally. To understand these differences in transmission, we examined the effect of GA on microsporogenesis and pollen tube elongation in rice using new GA-deficient and GA-insensitive mutants that produce semifertile flowers. Phenotypic analysis revealed that the GA-deficient mutant reduced pollen elongation1 is defective in pollen tube elongation, resulting in a low fertilization frequency, whereas the GA-insensitive semidominant mutant Slr1-d3 is mainly defective in viable pollen production. Quantitative RT-PCR revealed that GA biosynthesis genes tested whose mutations are transmitted to the next generation at a lower frequency are preferentially expressed after meiosis during pollen development, but expression is absent or very low before the meiosis stage, whereas GA signal-related genes are actively expressed before meiosis. Based on these observations, we predict that the transmission of GA-signaling genes occurs in a sporophytic manner, since the protein products and/or mRNA transcripts of these genes may be introduced into pollen-carrying mutant alleles, whereas GA synthesis genes are transmitted in a gametophytic manner, since these genes are preferentially expressed after meiosis.
180845	Sentinel pigs were bled and mosiquitoes were collected for isolation of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) between 1969 and 1973 in a rural area of northern Taiwan which reported a high annual incidence of human cases. The study site included a farmyard, schools, a bat cave, rice paddies and a heronry. Although Culex annulus was collected in every month of the year, isolations were made only in midsummer and only from Culex annulus and (once) from Culex tritaeniorhynchus. These isolates were usually collected from pig-related sources. Human cases in the vicinity of the study site were reported 3 to 6 weeks following the initial isolations from sentinel pigs. Isolations were made only for 4 to 8 weeks each summer. The isolation of JEV was not related to the availability of susceptible pigs or the spring or summer peaks in prevalence of Culex annulus. Despite periodic draining of rice paddies and the application of insecticides, sufficient numbers of Culex annulus were available to support transmission of JEV in each year of the study.
18084628	The aim of this study was to determine whether remotely sensed data could be used to identify rice-related malaria vector breeding habitats in an irrigated rice growing area near Niono, Mali. Early stages of rice growth show peak larval production, but Landsat sensor data are often obstructed by clouds during the early part of the cropping cycle (rainy season). In this study, we examined whether a classification based on two Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM)+ scenes acquired in the middle of the season and at harvesting times could be used to map different land uses and rice planted at different times (cohorts), and to infer which rice growth stages were present earlier in the season. We performed a maximum likelihood supervised classification and evaluated the robustness of the classifications with the transformed divergence separability index, the kappa coefficient and confusion matrices. Rice was distinguished from other land uses with 98% accuracy and rice cohorts were discriminated with 84% accuracy (three classes) or 94% (two classes). Our study showed that optical remote sensing can reliably identify potential malaria mosquito breeding habitats from space. In the future, these 'crop landscape maps' could be used to investigate the relationship between cultivation practices and malaria transmission.
18085409	In proteomic analysis, one of the major limitations is the detection of low-abundance proteins. To detect low-abundance RNA-binding proteins in mature dry seeds of rice, fractionation by single stranded DNA (ssDNA) affinity column chromatography was carried out before analysis by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). Proteomic analysis of the ssDNA-binding fraction revealed the existence of three types of RNA-binding proteins, including a K homology (KH) domain containing protein, a putative RNA-binding protein and a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein, in mature seeds. In addition, decreases in the putative RNA-binding protein and glycine-rich RNA-binding protein after absorbing water in seeds appear to be associated with seed germination.
18085759	The structural, electronic, and magnetic properties of cobalt-benzene complexes (Co(n)Bz(m), n, m = 1-4, m = n, n + 1) have been explored within the framework of an all electron gradient-corrected density functional theory. Sandwich conformations are energetically preferred for the smallest series of n, m = 1-2, rice-ball structures are for larger sizes with n > or = 3, and both motifs coexist for Co(2)Bz(3). The rice-ball clusters of (3, 3) and (4, 4) are more stable than (3, 4) having a relative large binding energy and HOMO-LUMO gap whereas smaller sandwich clusters have highly kinetic stability at (n, n + 1). The computed ionization potentials and magnetic moments of Co(n)Bz(m) are in good agreement with the measured values overall; the present results suggest that the measured moments are averages reflecting mixtures of a few nearly isoenergetic isomers having different spin states. The magnetism of the complexes mainly comes from Co atoms with a Bz molecule only possessing very small moments. Ferromagnetic ordering is energetically preferred for smaller complexes with n = 1-3 whereas antiferromagnetic ordering is favored for (4, 4). The relatively smaller moments of Con clusters in a Bz matrix indicate that Bz molecules play an attenuation role to the magnetism of the complexes.
18085940	Accurate predictions of future reconviction, including those for violent crimes, have been shown to be greatly aided by the use of formal risk assessment instruments. However, it is unclear as to whether these instruments would also be predictive in a sample of offenders with intellectual disabilities. In this study, the authors have shown that the Violence Risk Appraisal Guide (V. L. Quinsey, G. T. Harris, M. E. Rice, & C. Cormier, 1998); the Psychopathy Checklist--Screening Version (S. D. Hart, D. N. Cox, & R. D. Hare, 1995); and the History, Clinical, Risk Management--20 (C. D. Webster, K. S. Douglas, D. Eaves, & S. D. Hart, 1997) were all significant predictors of violent and general reconviction in this sample, and in many cases, their efficacy was greater than in a control sample of mentally disordered offenders without an intellectual disability.
18086237	In the cell walls of forage grasses, ferulic acid is esterified to arabinoxylans and participates with lignin monomers in oxidative coupling pathways to generate ferulate-polysaccharide-lignin complexes that cross-link the cell wall. Such cross-links hinder cell wall degradation by ruminant microbes, reducing plant digestibility. In this study, genetically modified Festuca arundinacea plants were produced expressing an Aspergillus niger ferulic acid esterase (FAEA) targeted to the vacuole. The rice actin promoter proved to be effective for FAEA expression, as did the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S and maize ubiquitin promoters. Higher levels of expression were, however, found with inducible heat-shock and senescence promoters. Following cell death and subsequent incubation, vacuole-targeted FAEA resulted in the release of both monomeric and dimeric ferulic acids from the cell walls, and this was enhanced several fold by the addition of exogenous endo-1,4-beta-xylanase. Most of the FAEA-expressing plants showed increased digestibility and reduced levels of cell wall esterified phenolics relative to non-transformed plants. It is concluded that targeted FAEA expression is an effective strategy for improving wall digestibility in Festuca and, potentially, other grass species used for fodder or cellulosic ethanol production.
18086447	The introduction of an exogenous cellulolytic bacterium into a microbial community that was degrading rice straw effectively was evaluated. A stable coexistence of the indigenous and exogenous cellulolytic bacteria was achieved by adjusting the cultivation conditions. The obtained community required several subcultures to reach the highest degradation efficiency.
18087625	Intensive agriculture is practised in Taiwan, and compost application is very popular as a means of improving the soil physical properties and supplying plant nutrition. We tested the potential of inoculation with thermotolerant microorganisms to shorten the maturity and improve the quality of biofertilizer prepared by composting. Thermotolerant microorganisms were isolated from compost and reinoculated for the preparation of biofertilizer. The physical, chemical and biological properties of the biofertilizer were determined during composting. The effects of biofertilizer application on the growth and yield of rape were also studied. Among 3823 colonies of thermotolerant microorganisms, Streptomyces thermonitrificans NTU-88, Streptococcus sp. NTU-130 and Aspergillus fumigatus NTU-132 exhibited high growth rates and cellulolytic and proteolytic activities. When a mixture of rice straw and swine manure were inoculated with these isolates and composted for 61 days, substrate temperature increased initially and then decreased gradually during composting. Substrate pH increased from 7.3 to 8.5. Microbial inoculation enhanced the rate of maturity, and increased the content of ash and total and immobilized nitrogen, improved the germination rate of alfalfa seed, and decreased the content of total organic carbon and the carbon/nitrogen ratio. Biofertilizer application increased the growth and yield of rape. Inoculation of thermotolerant and thermophilic microorganisms to agricultural waste for biofertilizer preparation enhances the rate of maturity and improves the quality of the resulting biofertilizer. Inoculation of appropriate microorganisms in biofertilizer preparation might be usefully applied to agricultural situations.
18088312	Alternative splicing (AS) increases the proteomic and functional capacity of genomes through the generation of alternative mRNA transcripts from the same gene. AS is now estimated to occur in a third of Arabidopsis and rice genes, and includes genes involved in the control of growth and development, responses to stress and signalling. Regulation of AS reflects the interactions between positive and negative cis sequences in the precursor messenger RNA and a range of trans-acting factors. The levels and activities of these factors differ in different cells and growth conditions. To identify changes in AS in multiple genes simultaneously, we have established a reproducible RT-PCR panel that can analyse 96 alternative splicing events and accurately measure the ratio of alternatively spliced products. This procedure detected statistically significant changes in AS in different plant organs, in plants grown under different light and day-length conditions, and in plants overexpressing splicing factors. The system provides a convenient, medium-throughput means of monitoring changes in AS in multiple genes. It can readily be applied to much larger or targeted sets of gene transcripts to generate information on the significance and regulation of AS in plant growth and development, specific processes and responses to external stimuli.
18088314	Horizontal gene transfer, defined as the transmission of genetic material between reproductively isolated species, has been considered for a long time to be a rare phenomenon. Most well-documented cases of horizontal gene transfer have been described in prokaryotes or in animals and they often involve transposable elements. The most abundant class of transposable elements in plant genomes are the long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons. Because of their propensity to increase their copy number while active, LTR retrotransposons can have a significant impact on genomics changes during evolution. In a previous study, we showed that in the wild rice species Oryza australiensis, 60% of the genome is composed of only three families of LTR retrotransposons named RIRE1, Wallabi and Kangourou. In the present study, using both in silico and experimental approaches, we show that one of these three families, RIRE1, has been transferred horizontally between O. australiensis and seven other reproductively isolated Oryza species. This constitutes a new case of horizontal transfer in plants.
18088429	Due to the increased use of genetic modifications in crop improvement, there is a need to develop effective methods for the detection of both known and unknown transgene constructs in plants. We have developed a strategy for detection and characterization of unknown genetic modifications and we present a proof of concept for this method using Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice). The approach relies on direct hybridization of total genomic DNA to high density microarrays designed to have probes tiled throughout a set of reference sequences. We show that by using arrays with 25 basepair probes covering both strands of a set of 235 vectors (2 million basepairs) we can detect transgene sequences in transformed lines of A. thaliana and rice without prior knowledge about the transformation vectors or the T-DNA constructs used to generate the studied plants. The approach should allow the user to detect the presence of transgene sequences and get sufficient information for further characterization of unknown genetic constructs in plants. The only requirements are access to a small amount of pure transgene plant material, that the genetic construct in question is above a certain size (here >/= 140 basepairs) and that parts of the construct shows some degree of sequence similarity with published genetic elements.
18089549	The Rice Annotation Project Database (RAP-DB) was created to provide the genome sequence assembly of the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP), manually curated annotation of the sequence, and other genomics information that could be useful for comprehensive understanding of the rice biology. Since the last publication of the RAP-DB, the IRGSP genome has been revised and reassembled. In addition, a large number of rice-expressed sequence tags have been released, and functional genomics resources have been produced worldwide. Thus, we have thoroughly updated our genome annotation by manual curation of all the functional descriptions of rice genes. The latest version of the RAP-DB contains a variety of annotation data as follows: clone positions, structures and functions of 31 439 genes validated by cDNAs, RNA genes detected by massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) technology and sequence similarity, flanking sequences of mutant lines, transposable elements, etc. Other annotation data such as Gnomon can be displayed along with those of RAP for comparison. We have also developed a new keyword search system to allow the user to access useful information. The RAP-DB is available at: http://rapdb.dna.affrc.go.jp/ and http://rapdb.lab.nig.ac.jp/.
18089620	Repeats are ubiquitous in genomes and play important roles in evolution. Transposable elements are a common kind of repeat. Transposon insertions can be nested and make the task of identifying repeats difficult. We develop a novel iterative algorithm, called Greedier, to find repeats in a target genome given a repeat library. Greedier distinguishes itself from existing methods by taking into account the fragmentation of repeats. Each iteration consists of two passes. In the first pass, it identifies the local similarities between the repeat library and the target genome. Greedier then builds graphs from this comparison output. In each graph, a vertex denotes a similar subsequence pair. Edges denote pairs of subsequences that can be connected to form higher similarities. In the second pass, Greedier traverses these graphs greedily to find matches to individual repeat units in the repeat library. It computes a fitness value for each such match denoting the similarity of that match. Matches with fitness values greater than a cutoff are removed, and the rest of the genome is stitched together. The similarity cutoff is then gradually reduced, and the iteration is repeated until no hits are returned from the comparison. Our experiments on the Arabidopsis and rice genomes show that Greedier identifies approximately twice as many transposon bases as those found by cross_match and WindowMasker. Moreover, Greedier masks far fewer false positive bases than either cross_match or WindowMasker. In addition to masking repeats, Greedier also reports potential nested transposon structures.
18089758	The NS3 protein of the tenuivirus rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV) has previously been shown to represent the viral RNA interference (RNAi) suppressor and is active in both plant and insect cells by binding short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) in vitro. Using a firefly luciferase-based silencing assay it is described here that NS3 is also active in mammalian cells. This activity is independent of the inducer molecule used. Using either synthetic siRNAs or a short hairpin RNA construct, NS3 was able to significantly suppress the RNAi-mediated silencing of luciferase expression in both monkey (Vero) and human (HEK293) cells. These results support the proposed mode of action of NS3 to act by sequestering siRNAs, the key molecules of the RNAi pathway conserved in all eukaryotes. The possible applications of this protein in modulating RNAi and investigating the proposed antiviral RNAi response in mammalian cell systems are discussed.
18092148	Powdery mildew is an important foliar disease in wheat, especially in areas with a cool or maritime climate. A dominant powdery mildew resistance gene transferred to the hexaploid germplasm line NC99BGTAG11 from T. timopheevii subsp. armeniacum was mapped distally on the long arm of chromosome 7A. Differential reactions were observed between the resistance gene in NC99BGTAG11 and the alleles of the Pm1 locus that is also located on chromosome arm 7AL. Observed segregation in F2:3 lines from the cross NC99BGTAG11xAxminster (Pm1a) demonstrate that germplasm line NC99BGTAG11 carries a novel powdery mildew resistance gene, which is now designated as Pm37. This new gene is highly effective against all powdery mildew isolates tested so far. Analyses of the population with molecular markers indicate that Pm37 is located 16 cM proximal to the Pm1 complex. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers Xgwm332 and Xwmc790 were located 0.5 cM proximal and distal, respectively, to Pm37. In order to identify new markers in the region, wheat expressed sequence tags (ESTs) located in the distal 10% of 7AL that were orthologous to sequences from chromosome 6 of rice were targeted. The two new EST-derived STS markers were located distal to Pm37 and one marker was closely linked to the Pm1a region. These new markers can be used in marker-assisted selection schemes to develop wheat cultivars with pyramids of powdery mildew resistance genes, including combinations of Pm37 in coupling linkage with alleles of the Pm1 locus.
18093338	Recent studies using high-throughput methods have revealed that transposable elements (TEs) are a comprehensive target for DNA methylation. However, the relationship between TEs and their genomic environment regarding methylation still remains unclear. The rice genome contains representatives of all known TE families with different characteristics of chromosomal distribution, structure, transposition, size, and copy number. Here we studied the DNA methylation state around 12 TEs in nine genomic DNAs from cultivated rice strains and their closely related wild strains. We employed a transposon display (TD) method to analyze the methylation environments in the genomes. The 12 TE families, consisting of four class I elements, seven class II elements, and one element of a different class, were differentially distributed in the rice chromosomes: some elements were concentrated in the centromeric or pericentromeric regions, but others were located in euchromatic regions. The TD analyses revealed that the TE families were embedded in flanking sequences with different methylation degrees. Each TE had flanking sequences with similar degrees of methylation among the nine rice strains. The class I elements tended to be present in highly methylated regions, while those of the class II elements showed widely varying degrees of methylation. In some TE families, the degrees of methylation were markedly lower than the average methylation state of the genome. In two families, dramatic changes of the methylation state occurred depending on the distance from the TE. Our results demonstrate that the TE families in the rice genomes can be characterized by the methylation states of their surroundings. The copy number and degree of conservation of the TE family are not likely to be correlated with the degree of methylation. We discuss possible relationships between the methylation state of TEs and their surroundings. This is the first report demonstrating that TEs in the genome are associated with a particular methylation environment that is a feature of a given TE.
18095430	Members of the Bacillus cereus group may produce diarrheal enterotoxins and could be potential hazards if they enter the food chain. Therefore, a method capable of detecting all the species in the B. cereus group rather than B. cereus alone is important. We selected nhe as the target and developed a real-time PCR assay to quantify enterotoxigenic strains of the B. cereus group. The real-time PCR assay was evaluated with 60 B. cereus group strains and 28 others. The assay was also used to construct calibration curves for different food matrices and feces. The assay has an excellent quantification capacity, as proved by its linearity (R2 > 0.993), wide dynamic quantification range (10(2) to 10(7) CFU/g for cooked rice and chicken, 10(3) to 10(7) CFU/ml for milk, and 10(4) to 10(7) CFU/g for feces), and adequate relative accuracy (85.5 to 101.1%). For the low-level contaminations, a most-probable-number real-time PCR assay was developed that could detect as low as 10(0) CFU/ml. Both assays were tested with real food samples and shown to beconsiderably appropriate for B. cereus group detection and quantification.
18095438	Most terverticillate penicillia isolated from dry-cured meat products are toxigenic, but their ability to produce hazardous metabolites on meat-based substrates is not well known. The production of extrolites by selected terverticillate penicillia isolated from dry-cured ham has been studied on carbohydrate-rich media (malt extract agar, Czapek yeast autolysate agar, rice extract agar, and rice), meat extract triolein salt agar, and ham slices. Chloroform extracts from the selected strains grown on malt extract agar were toxic for the brine shrimp (Artemia salina) larvae and VERO cells at a concentration of 2 mg/ml, but 0.02 mg/ml produced no toxic effect. Analysis by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with photodiode array detection (DAD) or with mass spectrometry (MS) and an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) source revealed different biologically active metabolites: cyclopiazonic acid and rugulovasine A from Penicillium commune; verrucosidin, anacine, puberuline, verrucofortine, and viridicatols from Penicillium polonicum; arisugacin and viridicatols from Penicillium echinulatum; and compactin and viridicatols from Penicillium solitum. Most of these metabolites, including the amino acid-derived compounds, were produced in the media containing high levels of carbohydrates. High concentrations of nitrogen compounds in the medium does not imply a greater production of the metabolites studied, not even those derived from the amino acids. However, molds growing on dry-cured ham are able to synthesize limited amounts of some secondary metabolites, a fact not previously reported. The combination of HPLC coupled with DAD and MS-APCI was useful for identification of closely related terverticillate Penicillium species from dry-cured ham. These techniques could be used to characterize the risk associated with the potential production of secondary metabolites in cured meats.
18095566	The metabolism characteristic in the gastrointestinal tract and possibility of transfer from gastrointestinal tract into liver and kidney was investigated. 48 SD rats were allotted into 8 subgroups randomly, 6 groups rats of them were fed with transgenic rice diets and 2 groups rats were fed with non-transgenic rice diets. All rats were fed with transgenic and non-transgenic rice for two weeks. All rats were fast and sacrificed, the contents of stomach, jejunum, the lower part of ileum, cecum and rectum were taken out at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 24 hours respectively after eating final diets. Fed two groups of SD rats with transgenic diet and non-transgenic rice diet respectively for 4 weeks, the liver and kidney were sampled and stored. All samples was examined by PCR. The fragment of hpt was found the was only detected in stomach and jejunum, but none of the five fragments was detected in the lower part of ileum, cecum and rectum. The degradation of hpt was time-relationship and long-length fragment relationship, the longer was the action time, the more serious was the degradation. Foreign hpt gene was not detected in liver and kidney. hpt gene was easy to degraded in gastrointestinal tract and was not detectable in hepatic tissue and nephridial tissues.
18095576	To describe the calcium intake of different age and gender residents in different area in China. 68962 study' participants were came from 23,470 households who were randomly selected from 132 counties in 31 provinces, autonomous regions and the municipalities in China. The 24-hour dietary recall method for 3 consecutive days was used to collect food intake information, except for the condiment intake, which was collected by weighting method. The average intakes of calcium were low in Chinese population. The average intake of calcium of male people were more higher than those of female people, while the intake level of urban residents were more higher than those of rural residents. The calcium intake of the most persons could reach 20%-60% of adequate intake (Al). Less than 5% person's calcium intake could reach AI. Only 1.1% to 1.7% adolescents aged 11 years to 13 years whose calcium intake level could reach AI. The main sources of calcium were vegetable, bean and bean product, wheat and rice, which provided 35.2%, 13.9%, 11.2% and 9.1% calcium respectively, only 4.3% calcium came from dairy products. The deficiency of calcium is a common problem in Chinese residents. In particular, the adolescents are the most serious group.
18097137	The purpose of the current study is to investigate the influence of germinated giant embryonic rice consumption on the lipid metabolism and antioxidant system in rats fed a high-cholesterol diet. Four groups of rats were given a diet containing 1 g cholesterol/kg for 5 weeks. The control group only received a high-cholesterol diet, while the other 3 experimental groups received each of the diets made of germinated giant embryonic rice, giant embryonic rice, or conventional brown rice (hereafter referred to as GGE-D, GE-D, and BR-D, respectively). Plasma and hepatic lipid profiles were measured, and the antioxidant status of liver was examined. The plasma HDL-cholesterol concentration was significantly higher in rats fed GGE-D compared with the source material (GE-D) or BR-D, while there were no differences in the plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations between the groups. Consequently, the atherogenic indices of the GGE-D and GE-D groups were significantly lower than for the other groups. The plasma and hepatic thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance levels were higher in rats in the order of those fed BR-D > GE-D > GGE-D. While superoxide dismutase and catalase were significantly activated in rats fed both GGE-D and GE-D, glutathione peroxidase was significantly and most effectively activated in those fed GGE-D. The current results indicate that consumption of germinated giant embryonic rice is effective in lowering atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease risk.
18097570	A number of possible preventive agents for cancers in different organs have been reported, however, little information is available regarding the effective agents for the development of gastric cancers. The rice components are known to be effective for the prevention of the development of cancers. Our group has demonstrated that fermented brown rice by Aspergillus Orzae (FBRA) has chemopreventive potentials in several organs. In this study, we investigated the modifying effects of FBRA exposed during the initiation or post-initiation phase of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced gastric carcinogenesis in rats. Five-week-old male ACI rats were divided into 7 groups. Groups 1-5 were given oral administration of MNNG (100 mg/l in distilled water) for 24 weeks starting at 6 weeks of age. Groups 2 and 3 were fed a diet containing 5 and 10% FBRA during the initiation phase, respectively, whereas groups 4 and 5 were fed these diets during the post-initiation phase. Group 6 was given a diet containing 10% FBRA throughout the experiment. Group 7 was kept on the basal diet alone and served as an untreated control. Rats were sacrificed at 52 weeks after the start, and the epithelium of the stomach was investigated in detail. Incidence and multiplicity of gastric proliferative lesions of group 1 (MNNG alone) were 61% and 1.67+/-1.57/rat, respectively. Those of group 5 (25%, 0.35+/-0.67) which were given FBRA at a dose of 10% during the post-initiation phase were significantly less than those of group 1. Furthermore, the same group expressed a significantly decreased Ki67-labeling index in the non-lesional gastric epithelium when compared to that of group 1. These results indicate that FBRA inhibits MNNG-induced development of gastric tumors by administration during the post-initiation phase in rats. FBRA is regarded as a promising dietary agent for the prevention of human gastric cancer.
18097643	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs), in which chromosomal segments of the Indian landrace "Kasalath" replace the corresponding endogenous segments in the genome of the Japanese premium rice "Koshihikari", are available and together cover the entire genome. Chromosome regions affecting a trait (CRATs) can be identified by comparison of phenotypes with genotypes of CSSLs. We detected 99 CRATs for 15 agronomic or morphological traits. "Kasalath" had positively acting alleles in 53 CRATs. Its CRATs increased panicle number per plant by up to 23.3%, grain number per panicle by up to 30.8%, and total grain number by up to 15.1%, relative to "Koshihikari". CRATs were identified for grain size (grain thickness and width), with positive effects of about 5.0%. A CRAT on chromosome 8 almost doubled the weight of roots in uppermost soil layers compared to "Koshihikari". Additionally, "Kasalath" possessed CRATs for higher lodging resistance (reduction in plant height and increase in stem diameter). In some cases, multiple CRATs were detected in the same chromosome regions. Therefore, CSSLs with these chromosome segments might be useful breeding materials for the simultaneous improvement of multiple traits. Five CRATs, one for plant height on chromosome 1, one for stem diameter on chromosome 8, and three for heading date on chromosomes 6, 7, and 8 overlapped with the corresponding QTLs that already had been mapped with back-crossed inbred lines of "Nipponbare" and "Kasalath". In both "Koshihikari" CRATs and "Nipponbare" QTLs, "Kasalath" had similar effects.
1810049	The efficacy of the solutions of oral rehydration salts (ORS) of the first and second generations was estimated in the treatment of patients with acute intestinal infections. 150 patients with food toxicoinfections were examined. Two groups of the patients received the solutions of ORS of the first generation (glucosalan and citroglucosalan) and one group were given the second generation ORS solution based on the rice and salt, manufactured by Galactina (Switzerland). The clinical cases were analyzed. Some biochemical parameters that characterize certain aspects of homeostasis and bioenergetics were explored. The authors emphasize a greater effectiveness of the second generation solutions of ORS producing not only detoxification and rehydration but also serving as a food.
18103254
18104575
18104679
18104818
18105858
18106351
18106993
1810751	Studies on ecological succession and association of anophelines in selected paddy fields of Dadraul PHC were carried out in 1988 during the paddy cultivation period from June to October. Breeding of five anophelines was observed in paddy fields. Out of the adults that emerged from larval collections the percentage of An. subpictus was the highest followed by An. nigerrimus, An. culicifacies, An. annularis and An. barbirostris. Further, An. culicifacies and An. subpictus breeding occurred in the early stage of rice cultivation and stopped before the breeding of An. nigerrimus started i.e., nearly 30 days after rice transplantation. An. nigerrimus breeding continued till harvesting. An inverse correlation between larval density of both An. culicifacies and An. subpictus and the height of the rice plants was observed.
18110007
1811286	In determining whether rice-bran oil (RBO) has antisecretory activity, we induced stress ulcers in 20 Wistar rats (10 controls; 10 animals given 0.2 ml/day RBO orally for 4 days prior to ulcer induction). In turn, we analyzed gastric juice for histamine, pepsin, H+ concentration ([H+]) and output volume. A second, complementary study was made of basal and stimulated gastric secretion through continuous "in vivo" recording of output. Secretion was stimulated with increasing doses of histamine, betanechol and pentagastrin. Ninety-four rats were used (47 controls and 47 rats given 0.2 ml/day RBO orally for 4 days prior to gastric output evaluation). The results were evaluated by the Student t-test. Ulcer index in the RBO-treated rats was significantly lower than among the controls (p less than 0.01), as also reflected by a significantly greater decrease in [H+] among the RBO-treated rats (p less than 0.05). However, no significant differences were observed for the remaining parameters. Continuous recording of basal gastric output showed a significant decrease in [H+] among the RBO-treated rats (p less than 0.01). Following histamine stimulation, [H+] was likewise significantly lower among the RBO-treated rats than in the controls. However, no significant differences were observed following stimulation with either betanechol or pentagastrin. RBO contains a high percentage of unsaturated fats; the latter act as precursors in the synthesis of arachidonic acid, which in turn is the essential precursor of prostaglandins--established inhibitors of gastric secretion. RBO also contains antioxidants such as alpha-tocopherol, which may likewise stimulate the synthesis of prostaglandins. RBO likely acts by increasing prostaglandin output, thus interfering with gastric HCl production.
18117197
18118797
18120833
18123521
1812488	Cdc2 proteins are well characterized as protein kinases and are functionally involved in the control of the G2 to M transition during cell division. cdc2 proteins (cdc2Sp, CDC28 and CDC2Gg) and proteins sharing a high degree of similarity with cdc2 proteins (EG1 and DM2C), and therefore belonging to the same structural family, were analyzed using Fourier transform of the coded sequences. Characteristic code/frequency pairs (0.140, 0.148 and 0.238) distinguish the cdc2 proteins from the related proteins. The frequencies 0.140, 0.148 and 0.238 (and the associated codes) allow discrimination between all cdc2 proteins (cdc2Sp, CDC28, CDC2Gg, CDC2Hs, CDC2Mm, CDC2Dm, CDC2Ms) and related proteins (EG1, DM2C, MO15, GTA, PHO85, KSS1, PSKJ3, FUS3, KIN28), thus providing the first evidence for predicting cdc2 function from a sequence. A rice cdc2 homolog (R2) did not match the cdc2 proteins and is, therefore, unlikely to be a cdc2 protein. Pertinent patterns in the cdc2 proteins were searched, and mapped to the 90-210 region (numbering from cdc2 of S. pombe) which correlates well with the putative cyclin binding domain of the cdc2 proteins.
18127427
1812770
18129962
18134712
18135906
18137311
18140048
18143522
18151677
18152197
18152261
18153419
18153542
18154307	In order to elucidate the stabilization mechanism of CutA1 from Pyrococcus horikoshii (PhCutA1) with a denaturation temperature of nearly 150 degrees C, GuHCl denaturation and heat denaturation were examined at neutral and acidic pHs. As a comparison, CutA1 proteins from Thermus thermophilus (TtCutA1) and Oryza sativa (OsCutA1) were also examined, which have lower optimum growth temperatures of 75 and 28 degrees C, respectively, than that (98 degrees C) of P. horikoshii. GuHCl-induced unfolding and refolding curves of the three proteins showed hysteresis effects due to an unusually slow unfolding rate. The midpoints of refolding for PhCutA1, TtCutA1 and OsCutA1 were 5.7 M, 3.3 M, and 2.3 M GuHCl, respectively, at pH 8.0 and 37 degrees C. DSC experiments with TtCutA1 and OsCutA1 showed that the denaturation temperatures were remarkably high, 112.8 and 97.3 degrees C, respectively, at pH 7.0 and that the good heat reversibility was amenable to thermodynamic analyses. At acidic pH, TtCutA1 showed higher stability to both heat and denaturant than PhCutA1. Combined with the data for DSC and denaturant denaturation, the unfolding Gibbs energy of PhCutA1 could be depicted as a function of temperature. It was experimentally revealed that (1) the unusually high stability of PhCutA1 basically originates from a common trimer structure of the three proteins, (2) the stability of PhCutA1 is superior to those of the other two CutA1s over all temperatures above 0 degrees C at neutral pH, due to the decrease in both enthalpy and entropy, and (3) ion pairs of PhCutA1 contribute to the unusually high stability at neutral pH.
18155518	Long-term manned space flights to Mars require the development of an advanced life support (ALS) ecosystem including efficient food crop production, processing and recycling waste products thereof. Using edible white rot fungi (EWRF) to achieve effective biomass transformation in ALS requires optimal and rapid biodegradative activity on lignocellulosic wastes. We investigated the mycelial growth of Lentinula edodes and Pleurotus ostreatus on processed residues of various crops under various cropping patterns. In single cropping, mycelial growth and fruiting in all strains were significantly repressed on sweet potato and basil. However, growth of the strains was improved when sweet potato and basil residues were paired with rice or wheat straw. Oyster mushroom (Pleurotus) strains were better than shiitake (L. edodes) strains under single, paired, and mixed cropping patterns. Mixed cropping further eliminated the inherent inhibitory effect of sweet potato, basil, or lettuce on fungal growth. Co-cropping fungal species had a synergistic effect on rate of fungal growth, substrate colonization, and fruiting. Use of efficient cropping methods may enhance fungal growth, fruiting, biodegradation of crop residues, and efficiency of biomass recycling.
18155857	The present study identified 12 MLO genes in rice that were located on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, and 11 respectively without any obvious clustering. On a genome scale we showed that the expansion of rice MLO gene family was primarily attributed to segmental duplication produced by polyploidy, rather than through tandem amplification. Gene conversion events should also play important roles in the evolution of MLO genes. The results of relative rate ratio test and maximum likelihood analysis suggested that positive selection should have occurred after gene duplication and/or speciation, prompting the formation of distinct MLO subfamilies. Functional divergence analysis provided statistical evidence for shifted evolutionary rate after gene duplication. Compared to extracellular loop 3 and Ca(2+)-binding domain, much stronger functional constraints should impose on intracellular loop 2, although all of the three regions might be under purifying selection. The sliding window analysis of d(N)/d(S) ratio values identified one sequence region where strong functional constraints must impose on, and consequently should be crucial for functionality of MLO genes.
18156215	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by NADPH oxidase play critical roles in various cellular activities, including plant innate immunity response. In contrast with the large multiprotein NADPH oxidase complex of phagocytes, in plants, only the homologs of the catalytic subunit gp91phox and the cytosolic regulator small GTPase Rac are found. Plant homologs of the gp91phox subunit are known as Rboh (for respiratory burst oxidase homolog). Although numerous Rboh have been isolated in plants, the regulation of enzymatic activity remains unknown. All rboh genes identified to date possess a conserved N-terminal extension that contains two Ca2+ binding EF-hand motifs. Previously, we ascertained that a small GTPase Rac (Os Rac1) enhanced pathogen-associated molecular pattern-induced ROS production and resistance to pathogens in rice (Oryza sativa). In this study, using yeast two-hybrid assay, we found that interaction between Rac GTPases and the N-terminal extension is ubiquitous and that a substantial part of the N-terminal region of Rboh, including the two EF-hand motifs, is required for the interaction. The direct Rac-Rboh interaction was supported by further studies using in vitro pull-down assay, a nuclear magnetic resonance titration experiment, and in vivo fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy. The FRET analysis also suggests that cytosolic Ca2+ concentration may regulate Rac-Rboh interaction in a dynamic manner. Furthermore, transient coexpression of Os Rac1 and rbohB enhanced ROS production in Nicotiana benthamiana, suggesting that direct Rac-Rboh interaction may activate NADPH oxidase activity in plants. Taken together, the results suggest that cytosolic Ca2+ concentration may modulate NADPH oxidase activity by regulating the interaction between Rac GTPase and Rboh.
18156216	A rice (Oryza sativa) Rac/Rop GTPase, Os Rac1, is involved in innate immunity, but its molecular function is largely unknown. RAR1 (for required for Mla12 resistance) and HSP90 (a heat shock protein 90 kD) are important components of R gene-mediated disease resistance, and their function is conserved in several plant species. HSP90 has also recently been shown to be important in mammalian innate immunity. However, their functions at the molecular level are not well understood. In this study, we examined the functional relationships between Os Rac1, RAR1, and HSP90. Os RAR1-RNA interference (RNAi) rice plants had impaired basal resistance to a compatible race of the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and the virulent bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae. Constitutively active Os Rac1 complemented the loss of resistance, suggesting that Os Rac1 and RAR1 are functionally linked. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments with rice cell culture extracts indicate that Rac1 forms a complex with RAR1, HSP90, and HSP70 in vivo. Studies with Os RAR1-RNAi and treatment with geldanamycin, an HSP90-specific inhibitor, showed that RAR1 and HSP90 are essential for the Rac1-mediated enhancement of pathogen-associated molecular pattern-triggered immune responses in rice cell cultures. Furthermore, the function of HSP90, but not RAR1, may be essential for their association with the Rac1 complex. Os Rac1 also regulates RAR1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. Together, our results indicate that Rac1, RAR1, HSP90, and HSP70 form one or more protein complexes in rice cells and suggest that these proteins play important roles in innate immunity in rice.
18156295	In addition to the major serine/threonine-specific phosphoprotein phosphatase, Mg(2+)-dependent phosphoprotein phosphatase, and protein tyrosine phosphatase families, there are novel protein phosphatases, including enzymes with aspartic acid-based catalysis and subfamilies of protein tyrosine phosphatases, whose evolutionary history and representation in plants is poorly characterized. We have searched the protein data sets encoded by the well-finished nuclear genomes of the higher plants Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and Oryza sativa, and the latest draft data sets from the tree Populus trichocarpa and the green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Ostreococcus tauri, for homologs to several classes of novel protein phosphatases. The Arabidopsis proteins, in combination with previously published data, provide a complete inventory of known types of protein phosphatases in this organism. Phylogenetic analysis of these proteins reveals a pattern of evolution where a diverse set of protein phosphatases was present early in the history of eukaryotes, and the division of plant and animal evolution resulted in two distinct sets of protein phosphatases. The green algae occupy an intermediate position, and show similarity to both plants and animals, depending on the protein. Of specific interest are the lack of cell division cycle (CDC) phosphatases CDC25 and CDC14, and the seeming adaptation of CDC14 as a protein interaction domain in higher plants. In addition, there is a dramatic increase in proteins containing RNA polymerase C-terminal domain phosphatase-like catalytic domains in the higher plants. Expression analysis of Arabidopsis phosphatase genes differentially amplified in plants (specifically the C-terminal domain phosphatase-like phosphatases) shows patterns of tissue-specific expression with a statistically significant number of correlated genes encoding putative signal transduction proteins.
18156780	The total methylotrophic population associated with rice plants from different cultivars was enumerated at three different stages: vegetative, flowering, and harvesting. The bacterial population in the leaf, rhizosphere soil, endophytic in the stem and roots, and epiphytic in the florets and grains were determined from four rice cultivars, Il-mi, Nam-pyeoung, O-dae, and Dong-jin, sampled from three different field sites. The methylotrophic bacteria isolated on AMS media containing 0.5% methanol as the sole carbon source uniformly showed three distinct morphologies, which were recorded as separate groups and their distribution among the various samples was determined using the ecophysiological index. The growth stage at the time of sampling had a more significant effect on the methylotrophic population and their distribution than the field site or cultivar. A similar effect was also observed for the PPFMs, where their population in different plant parts increased from V10 to R4 and then decreased towards stage R9. A canonical discriminant analysis of the PPFM population from different parts of rice showed clear variations among the cultivars, sampled sites, and growth stages, although the variations were more prominent among the growth stages.
1815765	The sequence of a partial cDNA clone corresponding to an mRNA induced in leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare) by infection with fungal pathogens matched almost perfectly with that of a cDNA clone coding for beta-1,-3-glucanase isolated from the scutellum of barley. Western blot analysis of intercellular proteins from near-isogenic barley lines inoculated with the powdery mildew fungus (Erysiphe graminis f. sp. hordei) showed a strong induction of glucanase in all inoculated lines but was most pronounced in two resistant lines. These data were confirmed by beta-1,3-glucanase assays. The barley cDNA was used as a hybridization probe to detect mRNAs in barley, wheat (Triticum aestivum), rice (oryza sativus), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), which are induced by infection with the necrotrophic pathogen Bipolaris sorokiniana. These results demonstrate that activation of beta-1,3-glucanase genes may be a general response of cereals to infection by fungal pathogens.
18158238	Liquors from water treatments of rice husks (containing soluble xylan-derived products) were processed with NF and UF membranes for concentrating and removing both monosaccharides and non-saccharide compounds. Among the commercial membranes assayed, the best results were achieved with the 4 kDa polymeric tubular ESP04 (PCI Membranes), and the 1 kDa ceramic monolithic Kerasep Nano (Novasep). Several trade-offs were identified both in membrane selection and in operating conditions. The ESP04 polymeric membrane provided the best fractionation, but lower recovery under comparable experimental conditions, while its fluxes were about half of those of the ceramic Kerasep Nano membrane. Increase in transmembrane pressure resulted in improved product recovery, at the expense of a lower purity. Additional data on product refining by coupling membrane processing with extraction and ion exchange are provided.
18158830	We investigated the effect of solid-state fermented rice cultured with Basidiomycota (sangwhang) and Monascus ruber on lipid metabolism and antioxidant activity. Forty 4-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed high cholesterol diets in which carbohydrate sources in the treatment groups consisted of non-fermented rice and sangwhang or M. ruber rice at 80% and 20%, respectively, for 5 weeks. Supplementation with sangwhang and M. ruber rice had no effect on growth and food intakes in high-cholesterol-fed rats. The plasma triglyceride concentration was not significantly different among the groups. Supplementation with M. ruber rice resulted in lower plasma and hepatic cholesterol concentrations and atherogenic index compared to the control group, while the plasma high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentration was elevated. In addition, fermented rice cultured with M. ruber-supplemented animals had greater bile acid excretion. The M. ruber groups had significantly lower plasma and hepatic levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances than the control group. Moreover, hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities, including catalase and superoxide dismutase, were significantly higher in the M. ruber group. In conclusion, fermented rice, especially M. ruber rice, was very effective for improving the lipid metabolism and reducing oxidative stress by up-regulating the hepatic antioxidant enzymes in high-cholesterol-fed rats.
18160127	The role of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in abscisic acid (ABA)-induced anthocyanin accumulation in detached and intact leaves of rice seedlings was investigated. Treatment with ABA resulted in an accumulation of anthocyanins in detached rice leaves. Dimethylthiourea, a chemical trap for H(2)O(2), was observed to be effective in inhibiting ABA-induced accumulation of anthocyanins. Inhibitors of NADPH oxidase (diphenyleneiodonium chloride and imidazole), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (wortmannin and LY 294002), and a donor of nitric oxide (N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone), which have previously been shown to prevent ABA-induced H(2)O(2) accumulation in detached rice leaves, inhibited ABA-induced anthocyanin increase. Exogenous application of H(2)O(2), however, was found to increase the anthocyanin content of detached rice leaves. In terms of H(2)O(2) accumulation, intact (attached) leaves of rice seedlings of cultivar Taichung Native 1 (TN1) are ABA sensitive and those of cultivar Tainung 67 (TNG67) are ABA insensitive. Upon treatment with ABA, H(2)O(2) and anthocyanins accumulated in leaves of TN1 seedlings but not in leaves of TNG67. Our results, obtained from detached and intact leaves of rice seedlings, suggest that H(2)O(2) is involved in ABA-induced anthocyanin accumulation in this species.
18160413	RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 6 (RDR6) catalyses dsRNA synthesis for post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS)-associated amplification and the generation of endogeneous siRNAs involved in developmental determinations or stress responses. The functional importance of RDR6 in PTGS led us to examine its connection to the cellular regulatory network by analyzing the hormonal responses of RDR6 gene expression in a cultured cell system. Delivery of dsRNA, prepared in vitro, into cultured rice (Oryza sativa cv. Japonica Dongjin) cells successfully silenced the target isocitrate lyase (ICL) transcripts. Silencing was transient in the absence of abscisic acid (ABA), while it became persistent in the presence of ABA in growth medium. A transcription assay of the OsRDR6 promoter showed that it was positively regulated by ABA. OsRDR6-dependent siRNA(ICL) generation was also significantly up-regulated by ABA. The results showed that, among the five rice OsRDR isogenes, only OsRDR6 was responsible for the observed ABA-mediated amplification and silencing of ICL transcripts. We propose that ABA modulates PTGS through the transcriptional control of the OsRDR6 gene.
18160965	Rice, one of the most important food crops for humans, is the first crop plant to have its genome sequenced. Rice whole-genome microarrays, genome tiling arrays and genome-wide gene-indexed mutant collections have recently been generated. With the availability of these resources, discovering the function of the estimated 41,000 rice genes is now within reach. Such discoveries have broad practical implications for understanding the biological processes of rice and other economically important grasses such as cereals and bioenergy crops.
18162271	The effect of chromium (Cr) stress on the changes of rhizosphere pH, organic acid exudation, and Cr accumulation in plants was studied using two rice genotypes differing in grain Cr accumulation. The results showed that rhizosphere pH increased with increasing level of Cr in the culture solution and with an extended time of Cr exposure. Among the six organic acids examined in this experiment, oxalic and malic acid contents were relatively higher, and had a significant positive correlation with the rhizosphere pH, indicating that they play an important role in changing rhizosphere pH. The Cr content in roots was significantly higher than that in stems and leaves. Cr accumulation in plants was significantly and positively correlated with rhizosphere pH, and the exudation of oxalic, malic and citric acids, suggesting that an increase in rhizosphere pH, and exudation of oxalic, malic and citric acid enhances Cr accumulation in rice plants.
18162302	The objective of this study is to assess the applicability of a commercial magnesium oxide (MgO) and a composite material containing MgO and natural minerals ('MgO-SH-A') as the soil amendments for suppression of cadmium (Cd) uptake and accumulation into rice grains. Firstly, the mineralogical and physicochemical properties, soil neutralizing capacities and Cd sorption characteristics of these materials were investigated. Both materials were strongly alkaline and possessed large surface areas. The X-ray diffraction pattern of MgO-SH-A indicated the presence of MgO and a magnesium-silicate mineral (antigorite) as the main components. MgO-SH-A showed a milder soil neutralizing capacity as compared to commercial MgO. The sorptions of Cd on commercial MgO and MgO-SH-A both fitted Langmuir isotherm. The maximum Cd sorption capacity of commercial MgO (46.8 mmol g(-1) DW) was higher than that of MgO-SH-A (5.87 mmol g(-1) DW), although the latter material showed higher affinity to Cd as compared to the former one. The dominant reaction involved in the Cd sorptions was suggested to be precipitation of Cd(OH)2 on the material surface. About 40% of Cd sorbed on MgO-SH-A was resistant to desorption by 0.1 M HCl, implying that this portion was strongly retained on the material surface.
18162307	Rice hull is an agricultural residue containing organic materials (carbohydrates, cellulose, etc.) and about 10% of silica, as inorganic component. Usually rice hull is burned at the fields generating small silica particles that may cause respiratory and environmental damage. On the other hand, beta-Ca2SiO4 is the second most important component of commercial portland cement. The utilization of beta-Ca2SiO4 brings many environmental benefits, such as reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and the saving of raw materials and energy. This work describes the synthesis of beta-Ca2SiO4 and related cements prepared from rice hull and the insertion of heavy metals (copper and cadmium). The insertion of these metals, chemically bounded to dicalcium silicate may represent a useful method to permanent encapsulation of hazardous chemicals. Silica was obtained from burning rice hull at 600 degrees C. The synthesis was carried out by a combination of sonochemical and solid-state chemical reactions and is completed at 800 degrees C. It was found that copper and cadmium can be inserted into beta-Ca2SiO4 structure in proportions up to 10%.
18162420	Introns of plant tubulin genes are useful molecular tools to study IME (Intron Mediated Enhancement of gene expression) and to define plant genetic and evolutionary relationships through ILP (Intron Length Polymorphism). Here we show that the intron present within the 5'UTR sequence of some rice beta-tubulin genes can sustain IME in rice transgenic plants and that degenerated oligonucleotide mixtures designed to amplify the first and the second intron present within the coding sequence of plant beta-tubulin genes can successfully detect ILPs among different bean varieties.
18162595	The plant SABATH protein family encompasses a group of related small-molecule methyltransferases (MTs) that catalyze the S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methylation of natural chemicals encompassing widely divergent structures. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) methyltransferase (IAMT) is a member of the SABATH family that modulates IAA homeostasis in plant tissues through methylation of IAA's free carboxyl group. The crystal structure of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) IAMT (AtIAMT1) was determined and refined to 2.75 A resolution. The overall tertiary and quaternary structures closely resemble the two-domain bilobed monomer and the dimeric arrangement, respectively, previously observed for the related salicylic acid carboxyl methyltransferase from Clarkia breweri (CbSAMT). To further our understanding of the biological function and evolution of SABATHs, especially of IAMT, we analyzed the SABATH gene family in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome. Forty-one OsSABATH genes were identified. Expression analysis showed that more than one-half of the OsSABATH genes were transcribed in one or multiple organs. The OsSABATH gene most similar to AtIAMT1 is OsSABATH4. Escherichia coli-expressed OsSABATH4 protein displayed the highest level of catalytic activity toward IAA and was therefore named OsIAMT1. OsIAMT1 exhibited kinetic properties similar to AtIAMT1 and poplar IAMT (PtIAMT1). Structural modeling of OsIAMT1 and PtIAMT1 using the experimentally determined structure of AtIAMT1 reported here as a template revealed conserved structural features of IAMTs within the active-site cavity that are divergent from functionally distinct members of the SABATH family, such as CbSAMT. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that IAMTs from Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar (Populus spp.) form a monophyletic group. Thus, structural, biochemical, and phylogenetic evidence supports the hypothesis that IAMT is an evolutionarily ancient member of the SABATH family likely to play a critical role in IAA homeostasis across a wide range of plants.
18163320	A pot experiment was conducted to study the regulation effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) on the interactions between Echinochloa crus-galli var. mitis L. and Oryza sativa L. under enhanced N supply (4.0 g N x m(-2) x a(-1)). The results showed that under monoculture condition, the AMF colonization on E. crus-galli increased but that on O. sativa decreased. In the treatments with and without AMF inoculation, upland rice biomass and its P and N uptake increased by 42.35% and 13.48%, 4.07% and 2.55%, and 30.35% and 62.09%, respectively, and barnyard grass biomass and its P and N uptake increased by 20.24% and 15.65%, 3.88% and 4.06%, and 15.10% and 30.35%, respectively. Under mixed cropping, the AMF colonization on E. crus-galli increased but that on O. sativa had little change. In the treatments with and without AMF inoculation, the biomass ratio of O. sativa to E. crus-galli decreased, but N uptake ratio changed a little. The P uptake ratio of O. sativa to E. crus-galli increased in treatment without AMF inoculation but decreased in treatment with AMF inoculation. It was suggested that AMF tended to enhance the competition of E. crus-galli to O. sativa under enhanced N supply.
18163552	Wild species offer a potential reservoir of genetic variation for crop improvement. Besides the valuable genes for disease resistance that the wild species have provided for rice improvement, recent studies have shown that these wild species could also provide favorable alleles for the improvement of yield and yield-related traits. The present study reports yet another potential of wild relatives of rice, which involves the improvement of seed protein content. A significant increase in seed protein content was observed in an interspecific hybrid between Oryza sativa ssp. indica and the wild species Oryza nivara. The hybrid showed a protein content of 12.4%, which was 28 and 18.2% higher than those of the parents O. nivara and IR 64, respectively. The increase in protein content was dependent on the genetic background of the rice variety used in the hybridization. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis of seed storage proteins demonstrated that a significant increase in prolamins and glutelins was mainly responsible for the elevated protein content of the hybrid. Amino acid analysis of seed proteins revealed that the hybrid had net gains of 19.5% in lysine and 19.4% in threonine over the O. nivara parent on a seed dry weight basis. Molecular analysis indicated that the increase in protein content of the hybrid was not a result of chromosomal rearrangements or transposable element activation, at least in the chromosomal regions containing seed storage protein genes. A preliminary genetic analysis of the F 2 segregating population showed that the inheritance of the increased protein content was polygenic in nature. The development of this interspecific hybrid offers a great potential for selecting new rice cultivars that combine the high yield and superior cooking quality of IR 64 with improved seed protein content.
18164027	Food has an influence on many life history traits related to dormancy in insects. In our previous study with the rice bug Leptocorisa chinensis (Dallas) (Hemiptera: Alydidae), diapausing females transferred to conditions physically favorable for promoting the gonad development required food intake to resume gonad development, whereas males did not. These differences in response to food between males and females lead to two questions: (1) Was diapause in the starved females completed? (2) Were the starved males that resumed gonad development at the same physiological status as fed males? We tested these questions with two physiological indicators: gonad status and respiratory rate. Results indicate that starved females are able to complete diapause, but show depressed respiration relative to well-fed insects in diapause. Similar to females, starved males that resumed postdiapause gonad development also had depressed respiratory rate, and hence physiological status is presumed to be different between starved and fed individuals. In this study, it was also found that the photoperiodic signal is storable, whereas the food signal acts directly. The adaptive significance of regulation of gonad development and respiratory metabolism in relation to phenology of suitable host plant and reproductive strategy is discussed in both sexes.
18164371	The accumulation of arsenic (As) by rice (Oryza sativa L.) is of great interest considering the dietary intake of rice is potentially a major As exposure pathway in countries where rice is irrigated with As contaminated groundwater. A small scale rice paddy experiment was conducted to evaluate the uptake of As by rice. Arsenic concentrations in rice tissue increased in the order grain<leaf<stem<root with the As concentration in the rice grain, in some cases, exceeding the maximum Australian permissible concentration of 1 mg kg(-1). Speciation of As in rice tissue was performed using a modified protein extraction procedure and trifluoroacetic acid extraction. Whilst higher As recoveries were obtained using trifluoroacetic acid extraction, both methods identified arsenite and arsenate as the major As species present in the root, stem and leaf, however, arsenite and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were the major As species identified in the grain. Notably, DMA comprised 85 to 94% of the total As concentration in the grain. The high proportion of organic to inorganic As in the grain has implications on human health risk assessment as inorganic As species are more bioavailable than methylated As species.
18164745	Lead (Pb2+) is a cytotoxic metal ion in plants, the mechanism of which is not yet established. The aim of this study is to investigate the signalling pathways that are activated by elevated concentrations of Pb2+ in rice roots. Root growth was stunted and cell death was accelerated when exposed to different dosages of Pb2+ during extended time periods. Using ROS-sensitive dye and Ca2+ indicator, we demonstrated that Pb2+ induced ROS production and Ca2+ accumulation, respectively. In addition, Pb2+ elicited a remarkable increase in myelin basic protein (MBP) kinase activities. By immunoblot and immunoprecipitation analysis, 40- and 42-kDa MBP kinases that were activated by Pb2+ were identified to be mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases. Pre-treatment of rice roots with an antioxidant and a NADPH oxidase inhibitor, glutathione (GSH) and diphenylene iodonium (DPI), effectively reduced Pb2+-induced cell death and MAP kinase activation. Moreover, calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) antagonist, W7, attenuated Pb2+-induced cell death and MAP kinase activation. These results suggested that the ROS and CDPK may function in the Pb2+-triggered cell death and MAP kinase signalling pathway in rice roots.
18165164	The aim of the study was to investigate the role of microstructure and porosity on the mechanical behaviour of sintered hydroxyapatite. Hydroxyapatite disks with four different porosities were used in this investigation. With a nanoindentation system, elastic modulus, hardness, contact stress-strain relationship, energy absorption and indentation creep behaviour were investigated. The elastic modulus and hardness of hydroxyapatite exhibited an exponential relationship (e(-bP)) with the porosity P, which is similar to Rice's finding with the minimum solid area model. High porosity samples showed more substantial inelastic behaviour, including higher energy absorption, no linear elastic region in the contact stress-strain curve and some indentation creep behaviour. We conclude that porous microstructure endows hydroxyapatite with inelastic deformation properties, which are important in a material for bone substitution usage.
18165991
18166134	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNAs (sRNA) approximately 21 nucleotides in length that negatively control gene expression by cleaving or inhibiting the translation of target gene transcripts. miRNAs have been extensively analyzed in Arabidopsis and rice and partially investigated in other non-model plant species. To date, 109 and 62 miRNA families have been identified in Arabidopsis and rice respectively. However, only 33 miRNAs have been identified from the genome of the model tree species (Populus trichocarpa), of which 11 are Populus specific. The low number of miRNA families previously identified in Populus, compared with the number of families identified in Arabidopsis and rice, suggests that many miRNAs still remain to be discovered in Populus. In this study, we analyzed expressed small RNAs from leaves and vegetative buds of Populus using high throughput pyrosequencing. Analysis of almost eighty thousand small RNA reads allowed us to identify 123 new sequences belonging to previously identified miRNA families as well as 48 new miRNA families that could be Populus-specific. Comparison of the organization of miRNA families in Populus, Arabidopsis and rice showed that miRNA family sizes were generally expanded in Populus. The putative targets of non-conserved miRNA include both previously identified targets as well as several new putative target genes involved in development, resistance to stress, and other cellular processes. Moreover, almost half of the genes predicted to be targeted by non-conserved miRNAs appear to be Populus-specific. Comparative analyses showed that genes targeted by conserved and non-conserved miRNAs are biased mainly towards development, electron transport and signal transduction processes. Similar results were found for non-conserved miRNAs from Arabidopsis. Our results suggest that while there is a conserved set of miRNAs among plant species, a large fraction of miRNAs vary among species. The non-conserved miRNAs may regulate cellular, physiological or developmental processes specific to the taxa that produce them, as appears likely to be the case for those miRNAs that have only been observed in Populus. Non-conserved and conserved miRNAs seem to target genes with similar biological functions indicating that similar selection pressures are acting on both types of miRNAs. The expansion in the number of most conserved miRNAs in Populus relative to Arabidopsis, may be linked to the recent genome duplication in Populus, the slow evolution of the Populus genome, or to differences in the selection pressure on duplicated miRNAs in these species.
18166491	Cryphonectria parasitica is the causal fungal agent responsible for the chestnut blight disease. We report the generation of 14,263 expressed sequence tags representing 6318 unisequences for the fungus. Functional annotation of these unisequences revealed different gene expression patterns for wild-type and hypovirus-infected cultures at the sporulation stage and allowed the reconstruction of key C. parasitica signal transduction pathways conserved in the Sorbidaryomycetes. A list of homologous genes implicated in pathogenicity, sporulation, and virus replication in other fungi were also identified. A large-scale gene comparison indicated that C. parasitica is most closely related to the plant pathogen Fusarium graminearum but more closely related to the non-pathogen Neurospora crassa than to the rice pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. This transcriptional information lays a new and solid ground for further investigation of both the biology of the fungus and interaction between a hypovirus and the host fungus.
18167072	The use of least-squares support vector machines (LS-SVM) combined with near-infrared (NIR) spectra for prediction of enological parameters and discrimination of rice wine age is proposed. The scores of the first ten principal components (PCs) derived from PC analysis (PCA) and radial basis function (RBF) were used as input feature subset and kernel function of LS-SVM models, respectively. The optimal parameters, the relative weight of the regression error gamma and the kernel parameter sigma 2, were found from grid search and leave-one-out cross-validation. As compared to partial least-squares (PLS) regression, the performance of LS-SVM was slightly better, with higher determination coefficients for validation (Rval2) and lower root-mean-square error of validation (RMSEP) for alcohol content, titratable acidity, and pH, respectively. When used to discriminate rice wine age, LS-SVM gave better results than discriminant analysis (DA). On the basis of the results, it was concluded that LS-SVM together with NIR spectroscopy was a reliable and accurate method for rice wine quality estimation.
18167147	The protein disulfide isomerase is known to play important roles in the folding of nascent polypeptides and in the formation of disulfide bonds in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In this study, we cloned a gene of a novel protein disulfide isomerase family from soybean leaf (Glycine max L. Merrill. cv Jack) mRNA. The cDNA encodes a protein called GmPDIM. It is composed of 438 amino acids, and its sequence and domain structure are similar to that of animal P5. Recombinant GmPDIM expressed in Escherichia coli displayed an oxidative refolding activity on denatured RNase A. The genomic sequence of GmPDIM was also cloned and sequenced. Comparison of the soybean sequence with sequences from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa showed significant conservation of the exon/intron structure. Consensus sequences within the promoters of the GmPDIM genes contained a cis-acting regulatory element for the unfolded protein response, and other regulatory motifs required for seed-specific expression. We observed that expression of GmPDIM was upregulated under ER-stress conditions, and was expressed ubiquitously in soybean tissues such as the cotyledon. It localized to the lumen of the ER. Data from co-immunoprecipitation experiments suggested that GmPDIM associated non-covalently with proglycinin, a precursor of the seed-storage protein glycinin. In addition, GmPDIM associated with the alpha' subunit of beta-conglycinin, a seed-storage protein in the presence of tunicamycin. These results suggest that GmPDIM may play a role in the folding of storage proteins and functions not only as a thiol-oxidoredactase, but also as molecular chaperone.
18167440	Silkworm hemolymph (SH), prepared from fifth-instar larvae of Bombyx mori and heat-treated at 60 degrees C for 30 min, was used to improve cell viability and the production of human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4-immunoglobulin (hCTLA4Ig) in transgenic Oryza sativa L. cell suspension cultures. Even though SH could not elevate cell viability at the concentrations up to 3% (v/v), addition of 0.3% (v/v) SH to a culture medium enhanced the production of hCTLA4Ig by 36.8% over an SH-free medium. Moreover, the production period of hCTLA4Ig could be shortened in a 0.3% (v/v) SHadded medium compared with that in an SH-free culture. As a result, addition of 0.3% (v/v) SH improved the productivity of hCTLA4Ig significantly in transgenic rice cell cultures.
1816994	Two dietary surveys were carried out in a high prevalence area of primary liver cancer (PLC) and a low PLC area in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China in 1987 and 1988 respectively. The results of these two surveys were similar and no statistical significant differences were observed. They showed that negative correlations between the mortality rates of PLC and the intake amount of rice, fruit, vegetable, energy, protein, crude fiber and ascorbic acid existed. However, between the mortality rates of PLC and the intake of corn, and peanut oil, positive correlations were noted. The aflatoxin content of corn, peanut and peanut oil was greater than that of rice, hence the possible relationship between aflatoxin and PLC. It suggested that diet and nutrients could affect PLC mortality rates.
1817190	Inoue and Iwakura recently reported that the specific activity ratio of organically-bound 3H to free water 3H in polished rice samples collected in Japan and China was lower than unity. Their paper was the first to report the systematic apparent elimination of 3H for incorporation to organically-bound form in samples collected from the general environment. To confirm their result, seven unpolished rice samples obtained just after harvesting were analyzed for 3H. The mean specific activity ratio of organically-bound 3H to free water 3H was found to be 0.57, somewhat lower than the data by Inoue and Iwakura. This small difference may be caused by the different sampling years and/or the possible replacement of free water by atmospheric water vapor after harvesting.
18172720	Bipolaris oryzae is a filamentous ascomycetous fungus that causes brown leaf spot disease in rice. We isolated and characterized BLR2, a gene that encodes a putative blue-light regulator similar to Neurospora crassa white collar-2 (WC-2). The deduced amino acid sequence of the BLR2 showed significant homology to other fungal blue-light regulator proteins in the Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) protein-protein interaction domain, nuclear localization signal, and GATA zinc finger DNA-binding domains. The BLR2-silenced transformants hardly produced conidia in the subsequent dark condition after near-ultraviolet (NUV) irradiation. Furthermore, the BLR2-silenced transformants suppressed the photolyase (PHR1) gene expression enhanced by NUV irradiation. These results indicate that BLR2 is necessary not only for conidial formation, but also for NUV radiation-enhanced photolyase gene expression in B. oryzae.
18172810	Increase in concentrations of various greenhouse gases and their possible contributions to the global warming are becoming a serious concern. Anthropogenic activities such as cultivation of flooded rice and application of waste materials, such as sewage sludge which are rich in C and N, as soil amendments could contribute to the increase in emission of greenhouse gases such as methane (CH(4)) and nitrous oxide (N(2)O) into the atmosphere. Therefore, evaluation of flux of various greenhouse gases from soils amended with sewage sludge is essential to quantify their release into the atmosphere. Two soils with contrasting properties (Candler fine sand [CFS] from Florida, and Ogeechee loamy sand [OLS] from Savannah, GA) were amended with varying rates (0, 24.7, 49.4, 98.8, and 148.3 Mg ha(-1)) of 2 types of sewage sludge (industrial [ISS] and domestic [DSS] origin. The amended soil samples were incubated in anaerobic condition at field capacity soil water content in static chamber (Qopak bottles). Gas samples were extracted immediately after amending soils and subsequently on a daily basis to evaluate the emission of CH(4), CO(2) and N(2)O. The results showed that emission rates and cumulative emission of all three gases increased with increasing rates of amendments. Cumulative emission of gases during 25-d incubation of soils amended with different types of sewage sludge decreased in the order: CO(2) > N(2)O > CH(4). The emission of gases was greater from the soils amended with DSS as compared to that with ISS. This may indicate the presence of either low C and N content or possible harmful chemicals in the ISS. The emission of gases was greater from the CFS as compared to that from the OLS. Furthermore, the results clearly depicted the inhibitory effect of acetylene in both soils by producing more N(2)O and CH(4) emission compared to the soils that did not receive acetylene at the rate of 1 mL g(-1) soil. Enumeration of microbial population by fluorescein diacetate (FDA) and most probable number (MPN) procedure at the end of 25-d incubation demonstrated a clear relationship between microbial activity and the emission of gases. The results of this study emphasize the need to consider the emission of greenhouse gases from soils amended with organic soil amendments such as sewage sludge, especially at high rates, and their potential contribution to global warming.
18172878	Chemical control is a major strategy for suppressing the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker). Owing to their high toxicity and increasing resistance development in the target insect, many insecticides will be phased out entirely in 2007 in China. Alternatives with relatively low toxicity are urgently needed to replace traditional chemicals for rice stem borer control. In this study, the authors examined four field populations of C. suppressalis for their toxicological responses to more than 20 insecticides, including a few low-toxicity organophosphates and many novel pesticides. Interpopulation resistance levels to 12 conventional insecticides were also compared. Based on LD(50) values, the rice stem borer was most sensitive to avermectins and fipronil (LD(50) < 1 ng larva(-1)). The stem borers exhibited the least sensitivity to endosulfan (LD(50) > 100 ng larva(-1)) and monosultap (LD(50) > 1000 ng larva(-1)). Insect growth regulators and chitin synthase inhibitors showed great efficacy against C. suppressalis, especially against populations that had developed resistance to conventional insecticides. Four field populations showed variable tolerance levels to many insecticides. LYG05 was the most susceptible population, only with a low level of resistance to monosultap (RR = 6.6). NC05 and GL05 populations exhibited intermediate tolerance levels with RR values up to 20.4 and 52.8 respectively. RA05 was the most resistant population to many insecticides, with resistance ratios up to 76.2. The results from this study provide valuable information for selection and adoption of new alternative insecticides and for resistance management of the rice stem borer.
18172879	A number of techniques, including cultural management, allelopathy and bioherbicide, have been considered as alternatives for synthetic herbicides, but successful weed control will require the careful integration of these multiple techniques. This study was conducted to assess the use of allelopathic rice varieties in combination with cultural management options on paddy weeds, in order to develop an allelopathy-based technique to reduce herbicide use in paddies. The weed-suppressive effects of the rice varieties tested varied highly with allelopathic trait, planting pattern and cultural management including planting density, flooding depth and duration and supply of nitrogen. Allelopathic rice varieties PI312777 and Huagan-1 demonstrated much stronger weed suppression than the non-allelopathic variety Huajianxian under the same planting pattern and cultural management. Their weed-suppressive effect was increased with cultural management options. In particular, if integrated cultural management options of allelopathic rice varieties included a low-dose (bensulfuron-methyl, 25 g AI ha(-1), a third of the recommended dose) herbicide application, the emergence and growth of most weeds found in paddy fields was completely controlled. No grain yield reduction for allelopathic varieties occurred under integrated cultural management options, whereas with the non-allelopathic variety a reduction of up to 45-60% was measurable even with the low-dose herbicide application. The allelopathic potential of rice varieties will likely have a great impact on paddy weed control if integrated with cultural management options and application of low doses of herbicides. Therefore, it is feasible to reduce herbicide input in paddies if allelopathic rice is grown under integrated cultural management practices.
18175928	Expression of OsWRKY71, a rice WRKY gene, was induced by biotic elicitors and pathogen infection. It was also found that OsWRKY71 has features characteristic of a transcriptional repressor. Microarray analysis revealed that several elicitor-induced defense-related genes were upregulated in rice cells overexpressing OsWRKY71. These results indicate that the activation of defense-related genes by OsWRKY71 was probably indirect.
18177369	Methanotrophs in the rhizosphere of rice field ecosystems attenuate the emissions of CH(4) into the atmosphere and thus play an important role for the global cycle of this greenhouse gas. Therefore, we measured the activity and composition of the methanotrophic community in the rhizosphere of rice microcosms. Methane oxidation was determined by measuring the CH(4) flux in the presence and absence of difluoromethane as a specific inhibitor for methane oxidation. Methane oxidation started on day 24 and reached the maximum on day 32 after transplantation. The total methanotrophic community was analysed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and cloning/sequencing of the pmoA gene, which encodes a subunit of particulate methane monooxygenase. The metabolically active methanotrophic community was analysed by stable isotope probing of microbial phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA-SIP) using (13)C-labelled CH(4) directly added to the rhizospheric region. Rhizospheric soil and root samples were collected after exposure to (13)CH(4) for 8 and 18 days. Both T-RFLP/cloning and PLFA-SIP approaches showed that type I and type II methanotrophic populations changed over time with respect to activity and population size in the rhizospheric soil and on the rice roots. However, type I methanotrophs were more active than type II methanotrophs at both time points indicating they were of particular importance in the rhizosphere. PLFA-SIP showed that the active methanotrophic populations exhibit a pronounced spatial and temporal variation in rice microcosms.
18177964	The objective of this research was to study by means of different techniques, the interaction between Penicillium oxalicum and Nigrospora oryzae under different temperatures (15 and 25 degrees C), water activities (0.95, 0.98, and 0.995) and culture media (rice and rice extract agar). In dual culture, P. oxalicum was dominant over N. oryzae in spite of presenting in the majority of cases, lower growth rates. The microscopic study revealed that P. oxalicum is a powerful mycoparasite, which attacks the conidiophores and the spores of N. oryzae, not only surrounding them, but also penetrating, deforming, destroying and developing reproductive structures inside them. The antagonist did not change its way of performance in the different tested conditions. Water activity and temperature showed a significant effect on fungus growth.
18177965	Nitrogen is an essential plant nutrient, widely applied as N-fertilizer to improve yield of agriculturally important crops. An interesting alternative to avoid or reduce the use of N-fertilizers could be the exploitation of plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB), capable of enhancing growth and yield of many plant species, several of agronomic and ecological significance. PGPB belong to diverse genera, including Azospirillum, Azotobacter, Herbaspirillum, Bacillus, Burkholderia, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium, and Gluconacetobacter, among others. They are capable of promoting plant growth through different mechanisms including (in some cases), the biological nitrogen fixation (BNF), the enzymatic reduction of the atmospheric dinitrogen (N(2)) to ammonia, catalyzed by nitrogenase. Aerobic bacteria able to oxidize ethanol to acetic acid in neutral or acid media are candidates of belonging to the family Acetobacteraceae. At present, this family has been divided into ten genera: Acetobacter, Gluconacetobacter, Gluconobacter, Acidomonas, Asaia, Kozakia, Saccharibacter, Swaminathania, Neoasaia, and Granulibacter. Among them, only three genera include N(2)-fixing species: Gluconacetobacter, Swaminathania and Acetobacter. The first N(2)-fixing acetic acid bacterium (AAB) was described in Brazil. It was found inside tissues of the sugarcane plant, and first named as Acetobacter diazotrophicus, but then renamed as Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus. Later, two new species within the genus Gluconacetobacter, associated to coffee plants, were described in Mexico: G. johannae and G. azotocaptans. A salt-tolerant bacterium named Swaminathania salitolerans was found associated to wild rice plants. Recently, N(2)-fixing Acetobacter peroxydans and Acetobacter nitrogenifigens, associated with rice plants and Kombucha tea, respectively, were described in India. In this paper, recent advances involving nitrogen-fixing AAB are presented. Their natural habitats, physiological and genetic aspects, as well as their association with different plants and contribution through BNF are described as an overview.
18178240	Field burning of crop residue is a common post-harvest practice to dispose of these agricultural by-products and for land clearing. Burned crop residues may effectively adsorb pesticides and thus influence their bioavailability in agricultural soils. The adsorption of clomazone by a soil amended with a burned rice straw (BRS) was measured. The availability of clomazone to barnyardgrass in the soil in the absence and presence of BRS was tested. The BRS was 1000-20,000 times more effective than soil in sorbing clomazone. The sorption of clomazone by soil increased with increasing BRS amount in the soil. In a bioassay, the injury of barnyardgrass 9 days after planting decreased with increasing BRS amount in soil indicating the effect of BRS on clomazone availability. Residual analyses showed higher concentrations of clomazone in soils receiving higher rates of the herbicide than in soils with lower application rates suggesting the adsorptive role of BRS. At typical application rate of clomazone (0.3 microg g(-1)), BRS amounts of 0.02 wt.% and higher caused an appreciable reduction to a complete loss in clomazone availability. Calculations suggest that field burning of rice straw may result in sufficiently high amounts (>0.02 wt.%) of BRS, and hence contribute to often experienced loss of pesticide availability in agricultural soils. Our results may be extended to field situations where other crop residues and vegetation are burned. Alternative management of crop residues may improve the bioavailability of pesticides in agricultural soils.
18178768	The grass family comprises the most important cereal crops and is a good system for studying, with comparative genomics, mechanisms of evolution, speciation, and domestication. Here, we identified and characterized the evolution of shared duplications in the rice (Oryza sativa) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) genomes by comparing 42,654 rice gene sequences with 6426 mapped wheat ESTs using improved sequence alignment criteria and statistical analysis. Intraspecific comparisons identified 29 interchromosomal duplications covering 72% of the rice genome and 10 duplication blocks covering 67.5% of the wheat genome. Using the same methodology, we assessed orthologous relationships between the two genomes and detected 13 blocks of colinearity that represent 83.1 and 90.4% of the rice and wheat genomes, respectively. Integration of the intraspecific duplications data with colinearity relationships revealed seven duplicated segments conserved at orthologous positions. A detailed analysis of the length, composition, and divergence time of these duplications and comparisons with sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and maize (Zea mays) indicated common and lineage-specific patterns of conservation between the different genomes. This allowed us to propose a model in which the grass genomes have evolved from a common ancestor with a basic number of five chromosomes through a series of whole genome and segmental duplications, chromosome fusions, and translocations.
18179781	Anthocyanins are naturally occurring plant pigments and exhibit an array of pharmacological properties. Our previous study showed that black rice pigment extract rich in anthocyanin prevents and ameliorates high-fructose-induced insulin resistance in rats. In present study, cyanidin 3-glucoside (Cy-3-G), a typical anthocyanin most abundant in black rice was used to examine its protective effect on insulin sensitivity in 3T3-L1 adipocytes exposed to H(2)O(2) (generated by adding glucose oxidase to the medium) or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Twelve-hour exposure of 3T3-L1 adipocytes to H(2)O(2) or TNF-alpha resulted in the increase of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) activation and insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) serine 307 phosphorylation, concomitantly with the decrease in insulin-stimulated IRS1 tyrosine phosphorylation and cellular glucose uptake. Blocking JNK expression using RNA interference efficiently prevented the H(2)O(2)- or TNF-alpha-induced defects in insulin action. Pretreatment of cells with Cy-3-G reduced the intracellular production of reactive oxygen species, the activation of JNK, and attenuated H(2)O(2)- or TNF-alpha-induced insulin resistance in a dose-dependent manner. In parallel, N-acetyl-cysteine, an antioxidant compound, did not exhibit an attenuation of TNF-alpha-induced insulin resistance. Taken together, these results indicated that Cy-3-G exerts a protective role against H(2)O(2)- or TNF-alpha-induced insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 adipocytes by inhibiting the JNK signal pathway.
18180745	Archaeal populations are abundant in cold and temperate environments, but little is known about their potential response to climate change-induced temperature changes. The effects of temperature on archaeal communities in unamended slurries of weakly acidic peat from Spitsbergen were studied using a combination of fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), 16S rRNA gene clone libraries and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). A high relative abundance of active archaeal cells (11-12% of total count) was seen at low temperatures (1 and 5 degrees C), and this community was dominated by Group 1.3b Crenarchaeota and the euryarchaeal clusters rice cluster V (RC-V), and Lake Dagow sediment (LDS). Increasing temperature reduced the diversity and relative abundance of these clusters. The methanogenic community in the slurries was diverse and included representatives of Methanomicrobiales, Methanobacterium, Methanosarcina and Methanosaeta. The overall relative abundance and diversity of the methanogenic archaea increased with increasing temperature, in accordance with a strong stimulation of methane production rates. However, DGGE profiling showed that the structure of this community changed with temperature and time. While the relative abundance of some populations was affected directly by temperature, the relative abundance of other populations was controlled by indirect effects or did not respond to temperature.
18180748	Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes are not known to harbor endosymbiotic bacteria. Here we show, using nucleic acid-based methods, that 16S rRNA gene sequences specific to a recently described mosquito midgut bacterium, Thorsellia anophelis, is predominant in the midgut of adult An. gambiae s.l. mosquitoes captured in residences in central Kenya, and also occurs in the aquatic rice paddy environment nearby. PCR consistently detected T. anophelis in the surface microlayer of rice paddies, which is also consistent with the surface-feeding behavior of A. gambiae s.l. larvae. Phylogenetic analysis of cloned environmental 16S rRNA genes identified four major Thorsellia lineages, which are closely affiliated to an insect endosymbiont of the genus Arsenophonus. Physiological characterizations support the hypothesis that T. anophelis is well adapted to the female anopheline midgut by utilizing blood and tolerating the alkaline conditions in this environment. The results suggest that aquatically derived bacteria such as T. anophelis can persist through mosquito metamorphosis and become well-established in the adult mosquito midgut.
18180880	T-DNA tagging is a high throughput strategy for identifying and cloning functional genes in plants. In this study, we screened 4416 lab-created T(1) rice T-DNA tagged lines and identified a mutant, designated dh1 (degenerated hull1), with phenotype of degenerated hull and naked pistils and stamens. Approximately 60% florets on the dh1 panicle defected in forming normal palea and lemma. Instead, they formed degenerative velum-like or filamentous organs accompanying with the lack of lodicules, stamens and pistils at different degree. A 361 bp of genomic sequence flanking the T-DNA isolated using TAIL-PCR (Thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR) co-segregated with the mutation phenotype. Results of blastn and gene prediction revealed the T-DNA inserted into the promoter region of a function-predicted gene at 283 bp upstream of its transcription start site (TSS). The predicted gene encoded a LOB (Lateral Organ Boundaries) domain-like protein. RT-PCR analyses indicated the transcription level of target candidate gene, DH1, decreased significantly in dh1 mutant. RNAi aimed at DH1 in wild type plants could partially result in the mutation phenotype of dh1. DH1 could also rescue the mutation phenotype in the complement experiment. The result of transformation by a fused expression vector, pDH1::GFP, revealed that DH1 had the keen spatial and temporal characteristics of expressing at axillary bud, young panicle and floral organs but not at root, leaf, node and culm, and strongly expressing at young tissues but weakly at mature organs. The dh1 presented severer mutation phenotype under relatively longer daylight than under shorter daylight implied that shorter daylight induced the expression of gene(s) redundant to DH1 in function and partially compensated for the loss-of-function. It is the first time to report the LOB-domain gene participating in the development of floral organs in rice.
18180897	To study the effect and safety of graded therapy featuring integrative traditional Chinese and Western medicine for the treatment of hemophilic arthritis. Forty patients with hemophilic arthritis were hospitalized randomly, with their blood coagulation factor activity determined by one-stage method and their arthritis classified into 4 stages. The treatment was applied according to the stage of arthritis and finding of intra-articular cavity puncture. For stage I, based on the principle of RICE (rest, ice, compression and elevation), 1.8 g of Xuefuda was medicated orally once per day, intravenous dripping of 250 mL of hemostasis mixture twice a day and 1.2 g of clindamycin per day were also given for hemostasis and anti-inflammation. For stage II-III, Kangyanling was additionally administered via intra-articular cavity injection twice a week, 2 mL every time, for 5-6 times in total. For stage IV, the drug for intra-articular cavity injection was replaced with 25 mg of sodium hyaluronate and the frequency of injection reduced to every two weeks, for 5-6 times in total. Coagulation factors III and IV as well as blood plasma were not given in the whole treatment course. Short-term therapeutic effects and adverse reaction in patients were evaluated, and the long-term effects were followed-up after patients left the hospital with 6-month consolidation therapy by Xuefuda. After a 3-week treatment, 33 patients (82.5%) were completely remitted; 5 (12.5%) were partially remitted and 2 (5.0%) un-remitted, setting the short-term effective rate at 95.0% (38 cases). The 6-month follow-up showed that except for a relapse in 2 and 4 patients of stage III and IV respectively, long-term remission displayed in all the other 34 patients, with the remission sustaining rate being 85.0%. No complication such as an infection, bleeding or aggravating pain occurred in the 215 times intra-articular puncturing conducted in the 40 patients. Normal figures were shown in liver and kidney function, electrolytes, ECG, blood glucose and routine test of blood and urine throughout the course. The graded treatment of integrative medicine for hemophilia with non-blood preparation has a favorable effect and is safe or without any adverse reaction, which opens a high efficacy and new safe path and thinking for the treatment of and deformity prevention in the hemophilic patients.
18180966	Rice straw (RS) is an important lignocellulosic biomass with nearly 800 million dry tons produced annually worldwide. RS has immense potential as a lignocellulosic feedstock for making renewable fuels and chemicals in a biorefinery. However, because of its natural recalcitrance, RS needs thermochemical treatment prior to further biological processing. Ammonia fiber expansion (AFEX) is a leading biomass pretreatment process utilizing concentrated/liquefied ammonia to pretreat lignocellulosic biomass at moderate temperatures (70-140 degrees C). Previous research has shown improved cellulose and hemicellulose conversions upon AFEX treatment of RS at 2:1 ammonia to biomass (w/w) loading, 40% moisture (dwb) and 90 degrees C. However, there is still scope for further improvement. Fungal pretreatment of lignocellulosics is an important biological pretreatment method that has not received much attention in the past. A few reasons for ignoring fungal-based pretreatments are substantial loss in cellulose and hemicellulose content and longer pretreatment times that reduce overall productivity. However, the sugar loss can be minimized through use of white-rot fungi (e.g. Pleutorus ostreatus) over a much shorter duration of pretreatment time. It was found that mushroom spent RS prior to AFEX allowed reduction in thermochemical treatment severity, while resulting in 15% higher glucan conversions than RS pretreated with AFEX alone. In this work, we report the effect of fungal conditioning of RS followed by AFEX pretreatment and enzymatic hydrolysis. The recovery of other byproducts from the fungal conditioning process such as fungal enzymes and mushrooms are also discussed.
18182025	Most short vegetative phase (SVP)-group MADS-box genes control meristem identity and flowering time. Among the three SVP-group genes in rice, OsMADS47 has been reported as a negative regulator of brassinosteroid (BR) responses. Here, we investigated the functional roles of two close homologs, OsMADS22 and OsMADS55, by generating single, double and triple RNAi lines and overexpression lines. Analyses of the plants showed that their roles in regulating meristem identity are well conserved; however, the involvement of these genes in determining flowering time has diversified. Most importantly, OsMADS55 works as a major negative regulator of BR responses, and OsMADS22 functions to support OsMADS55. Whereas single OsMADS55 RNAi plants display weak BR responses in the lamina joint (LJ), OsMADS22-OsMADS55 double and OsMADS22-OsMADS47-OsMADS55 triple RNAi plants manifest dramatic BR responses with regard to LJ inclination, coleoptile elongation and senescence. Stem elongation is also notably reduced in the double and triple RNAi plants, probably because of BR oversensitivity. Expression analyses indicate the diversified roles in age-dependent BR responses. Altogether, our study demonstrates that all three rice SVP-group genes work as negative regulators of BR responses, but that their spatial and temporal roles are diversified.
18182026	A rice genic male-sterility gene ms-h is recessive and has a pleiotropic effect on the chalky endosperm. After fine mapping, nucleotide sequencing analysis of the ms-h gene revealed a single nucleotide substitution at the 3'-splice junction of the 14th intron of the UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase 1 (UGPase1; EC2.7.7.9) gene, which causes the expression of two mature transcripts with abnormal sizes caused by the aberrant splicing. An in vitro functional assay showed that both proteins encoded by the two abnormal transcripts have no UGPase activity. The suppression of UGPase by the introduction of a UGPase1-RNAi construct in wild-type plants nearly eliminated seed set because of the male defect, with developmental retardation similar to the ms-h mutant phenotype, whereas overexpression of UGPase1 in ms-h mutant plants restored male fertility and the transformants produced T(1) seeds that segregated into normal and chalky endosperms. In addition, both phenotypes were co-segregated with the UGPase1 transgene in segregating T(1) plants, which demonstrates that UGPase1 has functional roles in both male sterility and the development of a chalky endosperm. Our results suggest that UGPase1 plays a key role in pollen development as well as seed carbohydrate metabolism.
18182423	A cDNA clone (OsRHC1) was obtained, which encodes a novel RING zinc finger protein sharing similar structural features (multiple transmembrane domains at the N-half; a unique RING zinc finger consensus Cys-X(2)-Cys-X(11)-Cys-X-His-X(3)-Cys-X(2)-Cys-X(6)-Cys-X(2)-Cys at the C terminus) to a group of closely related annotated proteins from both monocots and dicots. OsRHC1 was found to be localized on plasma membrane of rice cells and induced by wounding in rice lines containing Xa loci. Ecotopic expression of the OsRHC1 cDNA from rice (a monocot) in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana (a dicot) enhanced the defence response toward Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000, suggesting that OsRHC1 may confer broad-spectrum disease resistance. The protective effects were neutralized in the presence of MG132 or in an npr1-3 mutation background, indicating that the function of OsRHC1 is dependent on the ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation via the 26S proteasome and the presence of the key defence response regulator NPR1.
18182856	Several genes/QTLs governing resistance/tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses have been reported and mapped in rice. A QTL for submergence tolerance was found to be co-located with a major QTL for broad-spectrum bacterial leaf blight (bs-blb) resistance on the long arm of chromosome 5 in indica cultivars FR13A and IET8585. Using the Nipponbare (japonica) and 93-11 (indica) genome sequences, we identified, in silico, candidate genes in the chromosomal region [Kottapalli et al. (2006)]. Transcriptional profiling of FR13A and IET8585 using a rice 22K oligo array validated the above findings. Based on in silico analysis and arraying we observed that both cultivars respond to the above stresses through a common signaling system involving protein kinases, adenosine mono phosphate kinase, leucine rich repeat, PDZ/DHR/GLGF, and response regulator receiver protein. The combined approaches suggest that transcription factor EREBP on long arm of chromosome 5 regulates both submergence tolerance and blb resistance. Pyruvate decarboxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase, co-located in the same region, are candidate downstream genes for submergence tolerance at the seedling stage, and t-snare for bs-blb resistance. We also detected up-regulation of novel defense/stress-related genes including those encoding fumaryl aceto acetate (FAA) hydrolase, scramblase, and galactose oxidase, in response to the imposed stresses.
18183400	A novel member of the WRKY gene family, designated TcWRKY53, was isolated from a cadmium (Cd)-treated Thlaspi caerulescens cDNA library by differential screening. WRKY proteins specifically bind to W-boxes, which are found in the promoters of many genes involved in defense and response to environmental stress. TcWRKY53 contains a 975-bp open reading frame encoding a putative protein of 324 amino acids. Homology searches showed that TcWRKY53 resembles similar WRKY domain-containing proteins from rice, parsley and tobacco, especially AtWRKY53 from Arabidopsis thaliana. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed that the expression of TcWRKY53 was strongly induced by various environmental stresses, including an excess of NaCl, drought, cold and the signal molecule salicylic acid (SA). The expression of TcWRKY53 in response to NaCl, drought and cold suggested a possible role of TcWRKY53 in abiotic stress response. However, physiological tests indicated that the expression of TcWRKY53 in tobaccos decreases tolerance to sorbitol during seedling root development. This was consistent with PEG6000 treatment of tobacco seedlings, and together these results indicate a negative modulation of TcWRKY53 in response to osmotic stress. Furthermore, two ethylene responsive factor (ERF) family genes, NtERF5 and NtEREBP-1, were negatively induced in TcWRKY53-overexpressing transgenic plants. In contrast, a LEA family gene, NtLEA5, showed no change, suggesting that TcWRKY53 might regulate the plant osmotic stress response by interacting with an ERF-type transcription factor rather than by regulating function genes directly.
1818398	Edible fish stocked in rice fields at a density of 600-800 fry per mu (1 mu = 1/15 hectare) for 150-170 days may act as an effective mosquito biocontrol agent. Common carp (Cyprinus carpio), grass carp Ctenopharyngodon idella) and Tilopia spp. killed late stage larvae and pupae of Anopheles sinensis and Culex tritaeniorrhyncus in laboratory and field trials. Stocking of fish in experimental rice fields decreased larval numbers significantly in comparison with control areas. Expansion of fish stocking in rice fields on a large scale over several years correlated with a marked decrease in malaria transmission. The addition of fish to the rice fields also resulted in increased yields. A ditch-ridge system of field arrangements is described for optimization of fish handling. Preliminary cost-benefit analysis indicates that this approach to mosquito control conveys considerable economic advantage and thus provides incentive to the community to participate in vector control programs. Farmers' experience in Guangxi over a number of years indicates that the use of edible fish for this purpose can be carried on a large, commercially viable scale.
18184430	The Kilombero Valley is a highly malaria-endemic agricultural area in south-eastern Tanzania. Seasonal flooding of the valley is favourable to malaria transmission. During the farming season, many households move to distant field sites (shamba in Swahili) in the fertile river floodplain for the cultivation of rice. In the shamba, people live for several months in temporary shelters, far from the nearest health services. This study assessed the impact of seasonal movements to remote fields on malaria risk and treatment-seeking behaviour. A longitudinal study followed approximately 100 randomly selected farming households over six months. Every household was visited monthly and whereabouts of household members, activities in the fields, fever cases and treatment seeking for recent fever episodes were recorded. Fever incidence rates were lower in the shamba compared to the villages and moving to the shamba did not increase the risk of having a fever episode. Children aged 1-4 years, who usually spend a considerable amount of time in the shamba with their caretakers, were more likely to have a fever than adults (odds ratio = 4.47, 95% confidence interval 2.35-8.51). Protection with mosquito nets in the fields was extremely good (98% usage) but home-stocking of antimalarials was uncommon. Despite the long distances to health services, 55.8% (37.9-72.8) of the fever episodes were treated at a health facility, while home-management was less common (37%, 17.4-50.5). Living in the shamba does not appear to result in a higher fever-risk. Mosquito nets usage and treatment of fever in health facilities reflect awareness of malaria. Inability to obtain drugs in the fields may contribute to less irrational use of drugs but may pose an additional burden on poor farming households. A comprehensive approach is needed to improve access to treatment while at the same time assuring rational use of medicines and protecting fragile livelihoods.
18185494	Consumption of adequate amounts of folic acid by women before pregnancy and during early pregnancy decreases their risk for having a pregnancy affected by neural tube defects (NTDs), the most common preventable type of birth defects worldwide. Consumption of iron ameliorates iron deficiency, the most prevalent nutritional deficiency in the world, affecting approximately 2 billion persons. Although certain populations consume substantial amounts of rice and corn, worldwide, the consumption of wheat flour is greater than that of any other cereal grain. Fortification of wheat flour is an effective, simple, and inexpensive strategy for supplying folic acid, iron, and other vitamins and minerals to large segments of the world population. To assess the global change from 2004 to 2007 in 1) the percentage of wheat flour being fortified with folic acid and iron; 2) the total number of persons overall and women in particular with access to fortified wheat flour; and 3) the total number of newborns whose mothers had access to fortified wheat flour during pregnancy, CDC analyzed data from the Flour Fortification Initiative (FFI). This report summarizes the results of that assessment, which indicated that the worldwide percentage of wheat-flour fortification increased from 18% in 2004 to 27% in 2007. The estimated number of persons with access to fortified wheat flour increased by approximately 540 million, and the annual number of newborns whose mothers had access to fortified wheat flour during pregnancy increased by approximately 14 million. Nonetheless, approximately two thirds of the world population lacks access to fortified wheat flour. Programs should continue to expand coverage of wheat-flour fortification as a strategy to increase folic acid and iron consumption.
18185910	Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are crucial sensors of calcium concentration changes in plant cells under diverse endogenous and environmental stimuli. We identified 20 CDPK genes from bread wheat and performed a comprehensive study on their structural, functional and evolutionary characteristics. Full-length cDNA sequences of 14 CDPKs were obtained using various approaches. Wheat CDPKs were found to be similar to their counterparts in rice in genomic structure, GC content, subcellular localization, and subgroup classification. Divergence time estimation of wheat CDPK gene pairs and wheat-rice orthologs suggested that most duplicated genes already existed in the common ancestor of wheat and rice. The number of CDPKs in diploid wheat genome was estimated to be at least 26, a number close to that in rice, Arabidopsis, and poplar. However, polymorphism among EST sequences uncovered transcripts of all three homoeologous alleles for 13 out of 20 CDPKs. Thus, the hexaploid wheat should have 2-3 fold more CDPK genes expressing in their cells than the diploid species. Wheat CDPK genes were found to respond to various biotic and abiotic stimuli, including cold, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), salt, drought, powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis tritici, Bgt), as well as phytohormones abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellic acid (GA). Each CDPK gene often responded to multiple treatments, suggesting that wheat CDPKs are converging points for multiple signal transduction pathways. The current work represents the first comprehensive study of CDPK genes in bread wheat and provides a foundation for further functional study of this important gene family in Triticeae.
18185911	OsLOX1 is a novel full-length cDNA isolated from developing rice seeds. We have examined its biochemical properties and expression patterns. The protein has dual positional specificity, as it releases both C-9 and C-13 oxidized products in a 4:3 ratio. OsLOX1 transcripts were detected at low abundance in immature seeds and newly germinated seedlings, but accumulate rapidly and transiently in response to wounding or brown planthopper (BPH) attack, reaching a peak 3 h after wounding and 6 h after insect feeding. We produced transgenic rice lines carrying either sense or antisense constructs under the control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and these rice lines showed altered OsLOX1 activity. In all of the antisense lines and more than half of the sense lines the expression levels of OsLOX1, the levels of enzyme activity, and the levels of the endogenous OsLOX1 products (jasmonic acid, (Z)-3-hexenal and colneleic acid) at 6, 48, and 48 h after BPH feeding respectively, were below the levels found in non-transgenic control plants; yet, the levels in the remaining sense transformants were enhanced relative to controls. Transformants with a lower level of OsLOX1 expression were less able to tolerate BPH attack, while those with enhanced OsLOX1 expression were more resistant. Our data suggest that the OsLOX1 product is involved in tolerance of the rice plant to wounding and BPH attack.
18186001	Thermogenic metabolic curves were determined by the ampoule method at 303 K using a TAM air isothermal microcalorimeter in mitochondria isolated from rice 9311 (Oryza sativa L). From the thermogenic curves the activity recovery rate constant k and the maximum heat power Pm were obtained. Both were positively correlated to the protein content of rice mitochondria. The corresponding correlation coefficients were 0.9959 and 0.9950, respectively, indicating that the in vitro metabolic activity of mitochondria can be reliably expressed by these parameters. Addition of La (III) ions in concentrations ranging from 0 to 130 microg/mL resulted in significantly higher k and Pm values. Concentrations from 140 to 180 microg/mL had the opposite effect. These results are consistent with previous reports on the effects of rare earth elements on plant growth. We propose that the lanthanum-induced change of mitochondrial metabolic activity is a possible mechanism by which La (III) ions influence indica rice 9311 growth.
18186305
18186940	Microbial fuel cells (MFCs) are devices that exploit microorganisms to generate electric power from organic matter. Despite the development of efficient MFC reactors, the microbiology of electricity generation remains to be sufficiently understood. A laboratory-scale two-chamber microbial fuel cell (MFC) was inoculated with rice paddy field soil and fed cellulose as the carbon and energy source. Electricity-generating microorganisms were enriched by subculturing biofilms that attached onto anode electrodes. An electric current of 0.2 mA was generated from the first enrichment culture, and ratios of the major metabolites (e.g., electric current, methane and acetate) became stable after the forth enrichment. In order to investigate the electrogenic microbial community in the anode biofilm, it was morphologically analyzed by electron microscopy, and community members were phylogenetically identified by 16S rRNA gene clone-library analyses. Electron microscopy revealed that filamentous cells and rod-shaped cells with prosthecae-like filamentous appendages were abundantly present in the biofilm. Filamentous cells and appendages were interconnected via thin filaments. The clone library analyses frequently detected phylotypes affiliated with Clostridiales, Chloroflexi, Rhizobiales and Methanobacterium. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization revealed that the Rhizobiales population represented rod-shaped cells with filamentous appendages and constituted over 30% of the total population. Bacteria affiliated with the Rhizobiales constituted the major population in the cellulose-fed MFC and exhibited unique morphology with filamentous appendages. They are considered to play important roles in the cellulose-degrading electrogenic community.
18187426	Vitamin A deficiency is recognized to be a severe public health problem in most of the sahelian countries. In Mali, several surveys had been performed at the district or regional level. Unfortunately, they did not cover the entire territory. In the aim of getting a general picture, we collected information on the frequency and presentation of xerophthalmia among the children under 10 years old population recruited in the setting of a national survey planned in 1996 and 1997 to evaluate the prevalence and determinants of trachoma in Mali. In each of the seven regions (with the exception of Bamako district), a random sample of thirty villages was taken from the general population. In a subsample of those villages, children under 10 years of age were examined by an ophthalmologist and their related mothers interviewed. Diagnosis of night blindness and Bitot spot occurrence was used for data gathering. Information was collected on village's infrastructures and familial socioeconomic condition. Multiple logistic regression analyses were performed to purpose the best model to describe the relationship between each outcome variable and the various risk factors assessed. The prevalence of night blindness was estimated to be 1.95% (95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 1.58-2.39) and Bitot spots frequency to be 1.10% (95% CI: 0.83-1.45) among children between 2 and 6 years of age. Xerophthalmia prevalence was 2.51% (95% CI: 2.09-3.00) and nearly similar according to gender (2.68% among boys and 2.32% among girls). By region of the country and for the same age group, the prevalence ranged from 0.26% in the Kayes region to 7.02% in the Timbuktu region. In Mali, in four regions out of seven, the WHO thresholds defining a serious public health problem have been exceeded. The higher prevalence rates were found in Timbuktu, Mopti and Segou. After adjustment to season, the main risk factors were latitude, village size and poor sanitary coverage. The main protective determinants were education and rice culture. This presentation illustrates a public health problem concerning vitamin A deficiency among young children in the general population and allows considering the effectiveness of substitutive intervention with vitamin A capsule distribution along with the improvement of vitamin A rich food production and consumption.
18187800	A field study was conducted in a village in northern Vietnam to investigate how host distribution influences Japanese encephalitis (JE) vector abundance. Indoor and outdoor collections were conducted from 50 compounds. We collected three JE vector species--Culex tritaeniorhynchus and Culex vishnui that comprised the Culex vishnui group, and Culex gelidus. Spatial autocorrelation was not observed in the mosquito assemblies at any scale larger than the house compounds. Multivariate analyses revealed that the Cx. gelidus density correlated positively with both the host proximity to the breeding sites and cattle density; however, the Cx. vishnui subgroup density correlated positively only with cattle density. These results showed that the number of cattle in a compound influenced the JE vector abundance in that compound, and the abundance of Cx. gelidus, not of the Cx. vishnui subgroup, was affected by the host proximity to the breeding sites in the village.
18188410	There has been considerable public and scientific interest in the use of phytochemicals derived from dietary components to combat human diseases. They are naturally occurring substances found in plants. Ferulic acid (FA) is a phytochemical commonly found in fruits and vegetables such as tomatoes, sweet corn and rice bran. It arises from metabolism of phenylalanine and tyrosine by Shikimate pathway in plants. It exhibits a wide range of therapeutic effects against various diseases like cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative. A wide spectrum of beneficial activity for human health has been advocated for this phenolic compound, at least in part, because of its strong antioxidant activity. FA, a phenolic compound is a strong membrane antioxidant and known to positively affect human health. FA is an effective scavenger of free radicals and it has been approved in certain countries as food additive to prevent lipid peroxidation. It effectively scavenges superoxide anion radical and inhibits the lipid peroxidation. It possesses antioxidant property by virtue of its phenolic hydroxyl group in its structure. The hydroxy and phenoxy groups of FA donate electrons to quench the free radicals. The phenolic radical in turn forms a quinone methide intermediate, which is excreted via the bile. The past few decades have been devoted to intense research on antioxidant property of FA. So, the present review deals with the mechanism of antioxidant property of FA and its possible role in therapeutic usage against various diseases.
18189038	The Caspian region (including the Golestan, Mazandaran, and Guilan provinces of Iran) occupies 58,678 square kilometers (22,651 square miles) and has a population of 6,270,192, according to the census of 1996. This part of Iran is attractive to tourists because of its proximity to the Caspian Sea. In addition, the region boasts invaluable forests and grasslands, and is the exclusive producer in the country of key agricultural crops like rice and tea. The lack of systematic solid waste management has put this region on the edge of irreparable environmental damage. The large number and dispersion of open-dumping landfills, as well as the faded role of functional elements like waste minimization and processing, have sped up the environmental deterioration. This article evaluates the current status of solid waste management in the Caspian region and suggests practical alternatives. As a result of a field and desk study, the authors offer some instructions for separation of putrescibles, paper and cardboard, plastics, and so forth. Finally, after considering all aspects of the environmental impact assessments for different alternatives, the authors recommend the construction of two compost-producing facilities in Golestan province with a combined capacity of 500 metric tons per day and a total cost of $60,000, and four incineration sites in southern and southwestern parts of the region (Mazandaran and Guilan provinces) with a total capacity of 2,000 metric tons per day and total cost of $75 million.
18190707	EVidenceModeler (EVM) is presented as an automated eukaryotic gene structure annotation tool that reports eukaryotic gene structures as a weighted consensus of all available evidence. EVM, when combined with the Program to Assemble Spliced Alignments (PASA), yields a comprehensive, configurable annotation system that predicts protein-coding genes and alternatively spliced isoforms. Our experiments on both rice and human genome sequences demonstrate that EVM produces automated gene structure annotation approaching the quality of manual curation.
18191009	Using environmental scanning electron microscopy and X-ray electron probe microanalysis, the lead content was studied in inner and outer surface of rice glume, surface of caryopsis, center of caryopsis, near aleuronic layer and aleuronic layer in 21 genotypes of rice grains. The results showed that the lead content in different part of 21 genotypes of rice grains changed as inner surface of rice glume > aleuronic layer > near aleuronic layer > surface of caryopsis > outer surface of rice glume > center of caryopsis. There were genetic differences in lead enrichment in different genotypes of rice grains, which reflected as the differences of lead content in the same part and different part of rice grains. In different genotypes of rice grains, there were significant non-linear correlations between lead content in the inner surface of rice glume, center of caryopsis, aleuronic layer and that in the other parts of rice grain. The results also indicated that the lead enrichment in the center of caryopsis regulated by glume and aleuronic layer. In addition, in different genotypes of rice grains, there were differences in regulation of lead enrichment among different parts, which changed non-linearly.
18191263	It is said that genetic modification (GM) of grain sorghum has the potential to alleviate hunger in Africa. To this end, millions of dollars have been committed to developing GM sorghum. Current developments in the genetic engineering of sorghum are similar to efforts to improve cassava and other traditional African crops, as well as rice in Asia. On closer analysis, GM sorghum is faced with the same limitations as 'Golden Rice' (GM rice) in the context of combating vitamin A deficiency (VAD) efficiently and sustainably. Thus, it is questionable whether the cost of developing GM sorghum can be justified when compared to the cost of investing in sustainable agricultural practice in Africa.
18191969	Chromatographic separation of the 50% aqueous EtOH extract of the leaves of the African medicinal tree Baphia nitida resulted in isolation of 10 iminosugars. The plant contained 2R,5R-dihydroxymethyl-3R,4R-dihydroxypyrrolidine (DMDP) as a major alkaloid. The structure of a new alkaloid was also elucidated by spectroscopic methods as the 1-O-beta-D-fructofuranoside of DMDP, and this plant produced 3-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-DMDP as well. DMDP is a potent inhibitor of beta-glucosidase and beta-galactosidase, whereas the other two derivatives lowered inhibition toward both of these enzymes and improved inhibitory activities toward rice alpha-glucosidase and rat intestinal maltase.
18192436	New evidence suggests a role for the plant growth hormone auxin in pathogenesis and disease resistance. Bacterial infection induces the accumulation of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), the major type of auxin, in rice (Oryza sativa). IAA induces the expression of expansins, proteins that loosen the cell wall. Loosening the cell wall is key for plant growth but may also make the plant vulnerable to biotic intruders. Here, we report that rice GH3-8, an auxin-responsive gene functioning in auxin-dependent development, activates disease resistance in a salicylic acid signaling- and jasmonic acid signaling-independent pathway. GH3-8 encodes an IAA-amino synthetase that prevents free IAA accumulation. Overexpression of GH3-8 results in enhanced disease resistance to the rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae. This resistance is independent of jasmonic acid and salicylic acid signaling. Overexpression of GH3-8 also causes abnormal plant morphology and retarded growth and development. Both enhanced resistance and abnormal development may be caused by inhibition of the expression of expansins via suppressed auxin signaling.
18193274	Orysa sativa pathogenesis-related protein 10a (OsPR10a) was induced by pathogens, salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA), ethephon, abscisic acid (ABA), and NaCl. We tried to analyze the OsPR10a promoter to investigate the transcriptional regulation of OsPR10a by SA. We demonstrated the inducibility of OsPR10a promoter by SA using transgenic Arabidopsis carrying OsPR10a:GFP as well as by transient expression assays in rice. To further identify the promoter region responsible for its induction by SA, four different deletions of the OsPR10a promoter were made, and their activities were measured by transient assays. The construct containing 687-bp OsPR10a promoter from its start codon exhibited a six-fold increase of induction compared to the control in response to SA. Mutation in the W-box like element 1 (WLE 1) between 687 and 637-bp from TGACA to TGAAA completely abolished induction of the OsPR10a promoter by SA, indicating that the WLE 1 between -687 and -637 of OsPR10a promoter is important in SA-mediated OsPR10a expression. We show for the first time that the W-box like element plays a role in SA mediated PR gene expression.
18193402	To clarify the genetic basis of extremely early heading in rice, we conducted quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses using F2 populations from two genetically wide cross combinations, Hayamasari/Kasalath (HaF2) and Hoshinoyume/Kasalath (HoF2). Hayamasari and Hoshinoyume are extremely early-heading japonica cultivars. Photoperiod sensitivity is completely lost in Hayamasari and weak in Hoshinoyume. Three QTLs, QTL(chr6), QTL(chr7), and QTL(chr8), for days-to-heading (DTH) in HaF2 were detected on chromosomes 6, 7, and 8, respectively, and QTL(chr6) and QTL(chr7) were detected in HoF2. On the basis of the chromosomal locations, QTL(chr6), QTL(chr7), and QTL(chr8) may be likely to be Hd1, Hd4, and Hd5, respectively, which had been detected previously as QTLs for DTH in an F2 population of NipponbarexKasalath. Alleles of QTL(chr7) decreased DTH dramatically in both Hayamasari and Hoshinoyume, suggesting that QTL(chr7) has a major role in determining extremely early heading. In addition, allele-specific interactions were detected between QTL(chr6), QTL(chr7) and QTL(chr8). This result suggests that not only allelic differences but also epistatic interactions contribute to extremely early heading. QTL(chr8) was detected in HaF2, but not in HoF2, suggesting that it determines the difference in DTH between Hayamasari and Hoshinoyume. A major QTL was also detected in the region of QTL(chr8) in QTL analysis using an F2 population of HayamasarixHoshinoyume. This result supports the idea that QTL(chr8) is a major factor that determines the difference in DTH between Hayamasari and Hoshinoyume, and is involved in photoperiod sensitivity.
18193457	A HAP complex, which consists of three subunits, namely HAP2 (also called NF-YA or CBF-B), HAP3 (NF-YB/CBF-A) and HAP5 (NF-YC/CBF-C), binds to CCAAT sequences in a promoter to control the expression of target genes. We identified 10 HAP2 genes, 11 HAP3 genes and 7 HAP5 genes in the rice genome. All the three HAP family genes encode a protein with a conserved domain in each family and various non-conserved regions in both length and amino acid sequence. These genes showed various expression patterns depending on genes, and various combinations of overlapped expression of the HAP2, HAP3 and HAP5 genes were observed. Furthermore, protein interaction analyses showed interaction of OsHAP3A, a ubiquitously expressed HAP3 subunit of rice, with specific members of HAP5. These results indicate that the formation of specific complex with various HAP subunits combinations can be achieved by both tissue specific expression of three subunit genes and specific interaction of three subunit proteins. This may suggest that the HAP complexes may control various aspects of rice growth and development through tissue specific expression and complex formation of three subunit members.
18193828	Celiac disease (CD) is mediated by IgA antibodies to wheat gliadins and tissue transglutaminase (tTG). As tTG is homologous to microbial transglutaminase (mTG) used to improve foodstuff quality, it could elicit the immune response of celiac patients. This study evaluated the reactivity of IgA of celiac patients to prolamins of wheat and gluten-free (maize and rice flours) breads mTG-treated or not. Prolamins extracted from wheat and gluten-free breads were analyzed by ELISA and immunodetected on membranes with individual or pooled sera from nine celiac patients recently diagnosed. Sera pool IgA titers were higher against prolamins of mTG-treated wheat or gluten-free breads than against mTG-untreated, mainly due to two individual patients' sera. The electrophoretic pattern of gluten-free bread prolamins was changed by the mTG treatment, and a new 31000 band originated in maize was recognized by three CD patients' IgA.
18194862	Fly ash has a high content of plant available silicate which is strongly needed for rice cultivation in Korea. One concern for plants grown on soils amended with fly ash is boron (B) toxicity because most of the fresh fly ash contains considerable B. This study was conducted in paddy soil to determine B uptake by rice and characteristics of B accumulation in soil after fly ash application (0, 40, 80, and 120 Mg fly ash ha(-1)). In all fly ash treatments, B content in rice leaves and available B in soil at all growing stage were higher than those of control, but were not exceeded a toxicity levels. Boron occluded in amorphous Fe and Al oxides comprised ca. 20-39% of total B and was not affected by fly ash application. Most of the B was accumulated by fly ash application as a residual B which is plant-unavailable form, comprised >60% of the total B in soil. Thus, fly ash can be a good soil amendment for rice production without B toxicity.
18194960	The Plant Ontology Consortium (POC, http://www.plantontology.org) is a collaborative effort among model plant genome databases and plant researchers that aims to create, maintain and facilitate the use of a controlled vocabulary (ontology) for plants. The ontology allows users to ascribe attributes of plant structure (anatomy and morphology) and developmental stages to data types, such as genes and phenotypes, to provide a semantic framework to make meaningful cross-species and database comparisons. The POC builds upon groundbreaking work by the Gene Ontology Consortium (GOC) by adopting and extending the GOC's principles, existing software and database structure. Over the past year, POC has added hundreds of ontology terms to associate with thousands of genes and gene products from Arabidopsis, rice and maize, which are available through a newly updated web-based browser (http://www.plantontology.org/amigo/go.cgi) for viewing, searching and querying. The Consortium has also implemented new functionalities to facilitate the application of PO in genomic research and updated the website to keep the contents current. In this report, we present a brief description of resources available from the website, changes to the interfaces, data updates, community activities and future enhancement.
18196521	The objective of these investigations has been the determination of volatile organic compounds including residue solvents present in vegetable oil samples. Some olive oil, rape oil, sunflower oil, soy-bean oil, pumpkin oil, grape oil, rice oil as well as hazel-nut oil samples were analysed. Among residue solvents the following compounds have been mentioned: acetone, n-hexane, benzene, and toluene. Some experiments for the solid phase microextraction (SPME)-GC-flame ionisation detection (FID) were performed to examine extraction conditions such as fiber exposure time, temperature of extraction, and temperature of desorption. Various SPME fibers such as polydimethylsiloxane, Carboxen/polydimethylsiloxane and polydimethylsiloxane/divinylbenzene coatings were used for the isolation of tested compounds from vegetable oil samples. After optimisation of SPME, real vegetable oil samples were examined using SPME-GC/MS. Based on preliminary experiments the qualitative and quantitative analyses for the determination of acetone, n-hexane, benzene and toluene were performed by SPME-GC-FID and static head-space (SHS)-GC-FID methods. The regression coefficients for calibration curves for the examined compounds were R(2) > or = 0.992. This shows that the used method is linear in the examined concentration range (0.005-0.119 mg/kg for SPME-GC-FID and 0.003-0.728 mg/kg for SHS-GC-FID). Chemical properties of analysed vegetable oils have been characterised by chemometric procedure (cluster analysis).
18196616	Cytosine-substituted mildiomycin analogue (MIL-C) was produced effectively by supplementing cytosine into the culture of Streptoverticillium rimofaciens. In order to improve the yield of MIL-C, statistically-based experimental designs were applied to optimize the fermentation medium for S. rimofaciens ZJU 5119. Fifteen culture conditions were examined for their significances on MIL-C production using Plackett-Burman design. The Plackett-Burman design and one-variable-at-a-time design indicated that glucose and rice meal as the complex carbon sources, and peanut cake meal and NH4NO3 as the complex nitrogen sources were beneficial for MIL-C production in S. rimofaciens ZJU 5119. The results of further central composition design (CCD) showed that the optimal concentration of glucose, rice meal and peanut cake meal were 18.7 g/L, 64.8 g/L and 65.1 g/L, respectively. By using this optimal fermentation medium, the MIL-C concentration was increased up to 1336.5 mg/L, an approximate 3.8-fold improvement over the previous concentration (350.0 mg/L) with un-optimized medium. This work will be very helpful to the large-scale production of MIL-C in the future.
18197646	The unimolecular dissociation reactions of the methylhydrazine (MH) and tetramethylhydrazine (TMH) radical cations have been investigated using tandem mass spectrometry and threshold photoelectron photoion coincidence spectroscopy in the photon energy ranges 9.60-31.95 eV (for the MH ion) and 7.74-29.94 eV (for the TMH ion). Methylhydrazine ions (CH3NHNH2(+*)) have three low-energy dissociation channels: hydrogen atom loss to form CH2NHNH2(+) (m/z 45), loss of a methyl radical to form NHNH2(+) (m/z 31), and loss of methane to form the fragment ion m/z 30, N2H2(+*). Tetramethylhydrazine ions only exhibit two dissociation reactions near threshold: that of methyl radical loss to form (CH3)2NNCH3(+) (m/z 73) and of methane loss to form the fragment ion m/z 72 with the empirical formula C3H8N2(+*). The experimental breakdown curves were modeled with Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory, and it was found that, particularly for methyl radical loss, variational transition state theory was needed to obtain satisfactory fits to the data. The 0 K enthalpies of formation (delta(f)H0) for all fragment ions (m/z 73, m/z 72, m/z 45, m/z 31, and m/z 30) have been determined from the 0 K activation energies (E0) obtained from the fitting procedure: delta(f)H0[(CH3)2NNCH3(+)] = 833 +/- 5 kJ mol(-1), delta(f)H0 [C3H8N2(+*)] = 1064 +/- 5 kJ mol(-1), delta(f)H0[CH2NHNH2(+)] = 862 +/- 5 kJ mol(-1), delta(f)H0[NHNH2(+)] = 959 +/- 5 kJ mol(-1), and delta(f)H0[N2H2(+*)] = 1155 +/- 5 kJ mol(-1). The breakdown curves have been measured from threshold up to h nu approximately 32 eV for both hydrazine ions. As the photon energy increases, other dissociation products are observed and their appearance energies are reported.
18198043	This study had two purposes: first, to determine the knowledge, attitudes, and practices related to folic acid and birth defects among a convenience sample of postpartum Honduran women; and second, to identify food consumption patterns in this population and determine high-consumption staples for potential folic acid fortification. Convenience sampling methodology was used to recruit potential study participants. Participants for this study were 2 619 postpartum Honduran women who had had a normal, in-hospital delivery in one of 16 public hospitals located throughout the country or the two social security hospitals that provide services to the Honduran working class population. Over a 10-month period, in-depth, face-to-face oral interviews, supervised by the research coordinator and staff, were conducted in-hospital prior to discharge. The majority of the women were between 16 and 29 years of age. Approximately half of the respondents (46.4%) had heard of folic acid and over one-third (37.6%) knew that it was a vitamin related to preventing birth defects. Birth defects were most often attributed to drug and alcohol use (20.6%) and lack of vitamin intake (18.1%), but 23.0% related defects to mystical, mythical, or religious causes. Aside from red beans, oranges, and natural fruit juices, folate-rich foods are not widely consumed by this population. The highest consumption frequency of staple foods with the potential to be fortified with folic acid were rice, white flour, corn flour, and pasta. Results from this study provide potential avenues for food fortification, as well as underscore the need for further education about the role of folic acid in the prevention of neural tube defects. Results highlight that standardized health education for Honduran women of reproductive age is needed if folic acid consumption through fortification and supplementation is to be successful and sustainable.
18199337	Mutation rate (mu) per generation per locus is an important parameter in the models of population genetics. Studies on mutation rate and its variation are of significance to elucidate the extent and distribution of genetic variation, further infer evolutionary relationships among closely related species, and deeply understand genetic variation of genomes. However, patterns of rate variation of microsatellite loci are still poorly understood in plant species. Furthermore, how their mutation rates vary in di-, tri-, and tetra-nucleotide repeats within the species is largely uninvestigated across related plant genomes. Genome-wide variation of mutation rates was first investigated by means of the composite population parameter theta (theta = 4Nmu, where N is the effective population size and mu is the mutation rate per locus per generation) in four subspecies of Asian cultivated rice O. sativa and its three related species, O. rufipogon, O. glaberrima, and O. officinalis. On the basis of three data sets of microsatellite allele frequencies throughout the genome, population mutation rate (theta) was estimated for each locus. Our results reveal that the variation of population mutation rates at microsatellites within each studied species or subspecies of cultivated rice can be approximated with a gamma distribution. The mean population mutation rates of microsatellites do not significantly differ in motifs of di-, tri-, and tetra-nucleotide repeats for the studied rice species. The shape parameter was also estimated for each subspecies of rice as well as other related rice species. Of them, different subspecies of O. sativa possesses similar shape parameters (alpha) of the gamma distribution, while other species extensively vary in their population mutation rates. Through the analysis of genome-wide microsatellite data, the population mutation rate can be approximately fitted with a gamma distribution in most of the studied species. In general, different population histories occurred along different lineages may result in the observed variation of population mutation rates at microsatellites among the studied Oryza species.
18199419	An investigation on the occurrence of snails in the water bodies of five selected sites i.e., Khed, Chiplun, Ratnagiri, Parchuri and Gimvi of district Ratnagiri, Maharashtra (India) was made during April-May 2006. The study revealed occurrence of nine species of snails viz., Indoplanorbis exustus, Lymnaea luteola, L. acuminata, Paludomus obesus, Ferrissia tenuis, Thiara (Melanoides) tuberculata, Bellamya bengalensis, B. dissimilis and Pila globosa, besides some species of bivalves. I. exustus was the most common species by occurrence in all the selected localities and next to it was L. luteola followed by T. tuberculata, B. bengalensis and B. dissimilis, in succession. Infection with liverfluke and amphistome cercariae was found in most of the collected snail species except P. globosa. However, the Schistosome infection has been reported only in I. exustus and L. luteola. The rice fields, streams and riverbeds shared most abundance of snails whereas those collected from rice fields shedded highest number of cercariae.
18199446	An ion chromatography-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometric (IC-ICP-MS) method for the speciation of selenium and tellurium compounds namely selenite [Se(IV)], selenate [Se(VI)], Se-methylselenocysteine (MeSeCys), selenomethione (SeMet), tellurite [Te(IV)] and tellurate [Te(VI)] is described. Chromatographic separation is performed in gradient elution mode using 0.5 mmol L(-1) ammonium citrate in 2% methanol (pH 3.7) and 20 mmol L(-1) ammonium citrate in 2% methanol (pH 8.0). The analyses are carried out using dynamic reaction cell (DRC) ICP-MS. The DRC conditions have also been optimized to obtain interference free measurements of (78)Se(+) and (80)Se(+) which are otherwise interfered by (38)Ar(40)Ar(+) and (40)Ar(40)Ar(+), respectively. The detection limits of the procedure are in the range 0.01-0.03 ng Se mL(-1) and 0.01-0.08 ng Te mL(-1), respectively. The accuracy of the method has been verified by comparing the sum of the concentrations of individual species obtained by the present procedure with the total concentration of the elements in two NIST SRMs Whole Milk Powder RM 8435 and Rice Flour SRM 1568a. The selenium and tellurium species are extracted from milk powder and rice flour samples by using Protease XIV at 70 degrees C on a water bath for 30 min.
18199644	The rate of evolution of an RNA plant virus has never been estimated using temporally spaced sequence data, by contrast to the information available on an increasing range of animal viruses. Accordingly, the evolution rate of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) was calculated from sequences of the coat protein gene of isolates collected from rice over a 40-year period in different parts of Africa. The evolution rate of RYMV was estimated by pairwise distance linear regression on five phylogeographically defined groups comprising a total of 135 isolates. It was further assessed from 253 isolates collected all over Africa by Bayesian coalescent methods under strict and relaxed molecular clock models and under constant size and skyline population genetic models. Consistent estimates of the evolution rate between 4 x 10(-4) and 8 x 10(-4) nucleotides (nt)/site/year were obtained whatever method and model were applied. The synonymous evolution rate was between 8 x 10(-4) and 11 x 10(-4) nt/site/year. The overall and synonymous evolution rates of RYMV were within the range of the rates of 50 RNA animal viruses, below the average but above the distribution median. Experimentally, in host change studies, substitutions accumulated at an even higher rate. The results show that an RNA plant virus such as RYMV evolves as rapidly as most RNA animal viruses. Knowledge of the molecular clock of plant viruses provides methods for testing a wide range of biological hypotheses.
18200439	Chronic renal failure (CRF), in the main agricultural region under reservoir based cascade irrigation in Sri Lanka has reached crisis proportion. Over 5,000 patients in the region are under treatment for CRF. The objective of this study is to establish the etiology of the CRF. Concentrations of nine heavy metals were determined in sediments, soils of reservoir peripheries, water and Nelumbo nucifera (lotus) grown in five major reservoirs that supply irrigation water. All five reservoirs carried higher levels of dissolved cadmium (Cd), iron (Fe) and lead (Pb). Dissolved Cd in reservoir water ranged from 0.03 to 0.06 mg/l. Sediment Cd concentration was 1.78-2.45 mg/kg. No arsenic (As) was detected. Cd content in lotus rhizomes was 253.82 mg/kg. The Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake (PTWI) of Cd based on extreme exposure of rice is 8.702-15.927 microg/kg body weight (BW) for different age groups, 5-50 years. The PTWI of Cd due to extreme exposure of fish is 6.773-12.469 microg/kg BW. The PTWI on a rice staple with fish is 15.475-28.396 microg/kg BW. The mean urinary cadmium (UCd) concentration in CRF patients of age group 40-60 years was 7.58 microg Cd/g creatinine and in asymptomatic persons UCd was 11.62 microg Cd/g creatinine, indicating a chronic exposure to Cd. The possible source of Cd in reservoir sediments and water is Cd-contaminated agrochemicals. The CRF prevalent in north central Sri Lanka is a result of chronic dietary intake of Cd, supported by high natural levels of fluoride in drinking water, coupled with neglecting of routine de-silting of reservoirs for the past 20 years.
18201690	The GRAM domain was found in glucosyltransferases, myotubularins and other membrane-associated proteins. So far, functions for majority of these proteins are yet to be uncovered. In order to address the evolutionary and functional significance of this family members, we have performed a comprehensive investigation on their genome-wide identification, phylogenetic relationship and expression divergence in five different organisms representing monocot/dicot plants, vertebrate/invertebrate animals and yeast, namely, Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana, Mus musculus, Drosophila melanogaster and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, respectively. We have identified 65 members of GRAM domain family from these organisms. Our data revealed that this family was an ancient group and various organisms had evolved into different family sizes. Large-scale genome duplication and divergence in both expression patterns and functions were significantly contributed to the expansion and retention of this family. Mouse and Drosophila members showed higher divergences in their proteins as indicated by higher Ka/Ks ratios and possessed multiple domains in various combinations. However, in plants, their protein functions were possibly retained with a relatively low divergence as signified by lower Ka/Ks ratios and only one additional domain was combined during evolution. On the other hand, this family in all five organisms exhibited high divergence in their expression patterns both at tissue level and under various biotic and abiotic stresses. These highly divergent expression patterns unraveled the complexity of functions of GRAM domain family. Each member may play specialized roles in a specific tissue or stress condition and may function as regulators of environmental and hormonal signaling.
18202007	The responsiveness of plant ontogeny to temperature may change with plant age. These changes may best be identified by experiments in which individual plants are transferred in a time series from low temperature (LT) to high temperature (HT), and vice versa. Any change in the value of the slope for a plot of the duration taken to complete a developmental phase against time of transfer (either LT to HT or HT to LT) will indicate a change in the temperature responsiveness of development, and the time at which this change occurs. The analysis of this type of reciprocal-transfer experiment is usually performed by regression for each of the visually identified linear sub-phases, separately for the data for LT-to-HT and for HT-to-LT transfers. Here, a mathematical approach is presented using a single curve-fitting procedure. Both LT-to-HT and HT-to-LT transfers are combined in a single curve-fitting procedure. This new, combined approach is illustrated using a published data set for three rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars, where the pre-flowering duration is divided into three sub-phases, and temperature responsiveness is generally stronger during the second than the first and third sub-phases. This new model approach provides an objective method, relative to the separate analyses, for assigning data points to a particular sub-phase. Plausible parameter values can be obtained from capturing the whole data of both sets of transfers, which otherwise could not be obtained from the separate-analysis method. Furthermore, the length of sub-phases identified from the LT-to-HT transfers is consistent, in terms of its response to temperature, with that identified from the HT-to-LT transfers. Re-analysis of the published rice data using the new approach reveals that in addition to temperature sensitivity, the optimum temperature of pre-flowering development may vary with plant age. The new approach gives rise to a generalized model for the analysis of reciprocal transfer experiments to quantify age-dependent changes of response of plants (and potentially insects) to any environmental variables that have a significant impact on their development.
18203134	Endosperm is a highly specialized storage organ with three sets of genomes. It is one of the most economically important organs in plants. Endosperm development involves parental imprinting and endoreduplication. A thorough study of the endosperm proteome, particularly the nuclear proteome, may provide critical insight into the regulation of seed development. Unfortunately, endosperm is extremely rich in starch grains and protein bodies of different sizes, making proteome studies on nonstorage proteins, particularly the low-abundance proteins, very challenging. Here we have developed a chromatographic method to remove large starch grains and an electrophoresis method to recover low-abundance proteins, respectively. Using these methods, we have identified 468 proteins from the nuclear enriched fraction of rice endosperm, including transcription factors, histone modification proteins, kinetochore proteins, centromere/microtubule binding proteins, and transposon proteins. Among the 468 proteins, 208 (44%) are hypothetical proteins, indicating that the endosperm proteome is poorly explored. In addition, analyses of the MS/MS data using BioWorks 3.1 have identified 59 putative acetylated proteins and 40 putative methylated proteins. Our studies have developed a method to remove starch grains and recover low-abundance proteins, respectively. The methods should be applicable to other organisms.
18203378
18203502	We developed a specific method to extract DNA from rice grain samples and modified the qualitative real-time PCR method provided by Bayer Co., Ltd. for reliable detection of the genetically modified (GM) rice variety, LLRice601, which has not undergone safety assessment for regulatory approval in Japan. Moreover, we conducted a data analysis to confirm the results obtained with real-time PCR. The yields of DNA extracted from powdered samples of rice grains were almost equal among 5 different varieties of rice, and there was no significant difference in the yield over three days. Reliable results were obtained using 50 ng of the extracted DNA as the template for real-time PCR. To examine the adequacy of the methods, we organized an interlaboratory study with the participation of 2 laboratories, in which 80 test samples were analyzed in a blinded manner. The statistical analysis revealed no significant difference in the Ct value for the endogenous gene of the DNA samples and for the targeted DNA sequence of 0.1% samples. The limit of detection of the method was approximately 0.1%. Analysis of the fluorescence intensity of the PCR-amplified product of the construct-specific DNA sequence suggested that it may be reasonable to judge a sample as positive when a Ct value of less than 40 is obtained.
18203503	The differences in the constituents of ten ester-type gum bases used as natural food additives in Japan (urushi wax, carnauba wax, candelilla wax, rice bran wax, shellac wax, jojoba wax, bees wax, Japan wax, montan wax, and lanolin) were investigated. Several kinds of gum bases showed characteristic TLC patterns of lipids. In addition, compositions of fatty acid and alcohol moieties of esters in the gum bases were analyzed by GC/MS after methanolysis and hydrolysis, respectively. The results indicated that the varieties of fatty acids and alcohols and their compositions were characteristic for each gum base. These results will be useful for identification and discrimination of the ester-type gum bases.
1820356	Ochratoxin A, produced by a number of fungal species, has been found in many milieu, including porcine sera and coffee beans. It was therefore analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in porcine sera, coffee products and fungal cultures, using monoclonal antibodies, a monoclonal antibody-linked immunoaffinity column (IAC) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The chloroform extracts of acidified porcine sera were assayed directly by ELISA, with alkaline phosphatase and horseradish peroxidase as marker enzymes, at detection limits of 0.1 and 0.01 ng/ml, respectively. The presence of ochratoxin A in ELISA was confirmed by HPLC. The average contents in the five different lots tested were: 0.4 ng/ml in lot A (19 samples), 0.36 ng/ml in lot B (104 samples), 5.20 ng/ml in lot C (17 samples), 1.24 ng/ml in lot D (23 samples) and 0.22 ng/ml in lot E (24 samples). ELISA of methanol extracts of rice cultures showed the presence of more than 0.1 ng/g in 3 of 15 isolates of Aspergillus, in 16 of 67 isolates of Penicillum and in 7 of 17 isolates of Eupenicillum; none was found in an isolate of Emericella. IAC-HPLC analysis revealed that P. foetidus, which is similar to A. niger and is used for the production of a Japanese alcoholic drink (shou-chuu), also produced ochratoxin A. Use of IAC-HPLC to analyse coffee beans and instant coffee power resulted in the sharp resolution of ochratoxin A without complicated clean-up steps. The IAP-HPLC technique could thus be used for mass surveys of ochratoxin A residues in biological specimens.
18203653	90% of the world's rice is grown and consumed in Asia, with each hectare of rice-producing land providing food for 27 people. By 2050, because of population growth and increasing urbanisation, each remaining hectare will have to feed at least 43 people. This means that yields must be increased by at least 50% over the next 40 years to prevent mass malnutrition for the 700 million Asians that currently rely on rice for more than 60% of their daily calorific intake. Since predictive models suggest that yield increases of this magnitude can only be achieved by improving photosynthesis, and because evolution has increased photosynthetic efficiency by 50% in the form of the C4 pathway, one solution is to generate C4 rice. However, this is an ambitious goal that requires proof of concept before any major investment of time and money. Here, we discuss approaches that should allow proof of concept to be tested.
18203830	The rice pathogen recognition receptor, XA21, confers resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae strains producing the type one system-secreted molecule, AvrXA21. X. oryzae pv. oryzae requires a regulatory two-component system (TCS) called RaxRH to regulate expression of eight rax (required for AvrXA21 activity) genes and to sense population cell density. To identify other key components in this critical regulatory circuit, we assayed proteins expressed in a raxR gene knockout strain. This survey led to the identification of the phoP gene encoding a response regulator that is up-regulated in the raxR knockout strain. Next we generated a phoP knockout strain and found it to be impaired in X. oryzae pv. oryzae virulence and no longer able to activate the response regulator HrpG (hypersensitive reaction and pathogenicity G) in response to low levels of Ca2+. The impaired virulence of the phoP knockout strain can be partially complemented by constitutive expression of hrpG, indicating that PhoP controls a key aspect of X. oryzae pv. oryzae virulence through regulation of hrpG. A gene encoding the cognate putative histidine protein kinase, phoQ, was also isolated. Growth curve analysis revealed that AvrXA21 activity is impaired in a phoQ knockout strain as reflected by enhanced growth of this strain in rice lines carrying XA21. These results suggest that the X. oryzae pv. oryzae PhoPQ TCS functions in virulence and in the production of AvrXA21 in partnership with RaxRH.
18203979	The effects of yeast culture and fibrolytic enzyme preparation (containing cellulase and xylanase) on in vitro fermentation characteristics of rice straw, wheat straw, maize stover, and maize stover silage were examined using an in vitro gas production technique. Four levels of yeast culture and fibrolytic enzyme supplements (0, 2.5, 5.0, and 7.5 g/kg of straw DM, respectively) were tested in a 4 x 4 factorial arrangement. Supplementation of yeast culture increased the cumulative gas production, theoretical maximum of gas production, rate of gas production, IVDMD, and in vitro OM disappearance (IVOMD), and decreased the lag time for each type of straw. Fibrolytic enzyme supplementation tended to increase cumulative gas production, theoretical maximum of gas production, and rate of gas production; prolonged lag time of gas production; and enhanced IVDMD and IVOMD for 4 types of cereal straws, with the significance of this effect being dependent on the level of supplemented enzymes. There were significant interactions between fibrolytic enzymes and yeast on all in vitro gas production parameters, IVDMD, and IVOMD of each type of straw. The outcome of this research indicated that the application of fibrolytic enzyme preparation and yeast culture could improve in vitro gas production fermentation of cereal straws.
18205020	We describe here the isolation and characterization of OsiSAP8, a member of stress Associated protein (SAP) gene family from rice characterized by the presence of A20 and AN1 type Zinc finger domains. OsiSAP8 is a multiple stress inducible gene, induced by various stresses, namely heat, cold, salt, desiccation, submergence, wounding, heavy metals as well as stress hormone Abscisic acid. OsiSAP8 protein fused to GFP was localized towards the periphery of the cells in the epidermal cells of infiltrated Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Yeast two hybrid analysis revealed that A20 and AN1 type zinc-finger domains of OsiSAP8 interact with each other. Overexpression of the gene in both transgenic tobacco and rice conferred tolerance to salt, drought and cold stress at seed germination/seedling stage as reflected by percentage of germination and gain in fresh weight after stress recovery. Transgenic rice plants were tolerant to salt and drought during anthesis stage without any yield penalty as compared to unstressed transgenic plants.
18205307	Two- and multi-step annealing experiments were designed to determine how much gelatinization temperature of waxy rice, waxy barley, and wheat starches could be increased without causing a decrease in gelatinization enthalpy or a decline in X-ray crystallinity. A mixture of starch and excess water was heated in a differential scanning calorimeter (DSC) pan to a specific temperature and maintained there for 0.5-48 h. The experimental approach was first to anneal a starch at a low temperature so that the gelatinization temperature of the starch was increased without causing a decrease in gelatinization enthalpy. The annealing temperature was then raised, but still was kept below the onset gelatinization temperature of the previously annealed starch. When a second- or third-step annealing temperature was high enough, it caused a decrease in crystallinity, even though the holding temperature remained below the onset gelatinization temperature of the previously annealed starch. These results support that gelatinization is a nonequilibrium process and that dissociation of double helices is driven by the swelling of amorphous regions. Small-scale starch slurry annealing was also performed and confirmed the annealing results conducted in DSC pans. A three-phase model of a starch granule, a mobile amorphous phase, a rigid amorphous phase, and a crystalline phase, was used to interpret the annealing results. Annealing seems to be an interplay between a more efficient packing of crystallites in starch granules and swelling of plasticized amorphous regions. There is always a temperature ceiling that can be used to anneal a starch without causing a decrease in crystallinity. That temperature ceiling is starch-specific, dependent on the structure of a starch, and is lower than the original onset gelatinization of a starch.
1820664	It has been postulated that mucosa-related antigens are involved in the development of IgA nephropathy. The aim of this study was to elucidate whether food antigens have any relation to IgA nephropathy in Japan. Sera from 15 patients with IgA nephropathy and 15 healthy controls were examined using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). IgG, IgA, and IgM antibody titers were measured against six food-derived antigens, i.e. rice, soy bean paste, soy sauce, egg yolk, egg white and gluten, all of which are frequently found in the ordinary Japanese diet. No significant differences between patients and controls were found. It was concluded that food antigens appear to have little, if any, relation to IgA nephropathy.
18207937
18208517	In the S-methylmethionine cycle of plants, homocysteine methyltransferase (HMT) catalyzes the formation of two molecules of methionine from homocysteine and S-methylmethionine, and methionine methyltransferase (MMT) catalyzes the formation of methionine from S-methylmethionine using S-adenosylmethionine as a methyl group donor. Somewhat surprisingly, two independently isolated knockdown mutations of HMT2 (At3g63250), one of three Arabidopsis thaliana genes encoding homocysteine methyltransferase, increased free methionine abundance in seeds. Crosses and flower stalk grafting experiments demonstrate that the maternal genotype at the top of the flower stalk determines the seed S-methylmethionine and methionine phenotype of hmt2 mutants. Uptake, transport and inter-conversion of [(13)C]S-methylmethionine and [(13)C]methionine in hmt2, mmt and wild-type plants show that S-methylmethionine is a non-essential intermediate in the movement of methionine from vegetative tissue to the seeds. Together, these results support a model whereby elevated S-methylmethionine in hmt2 vegetative tissue is transported to seeds and either directly or indirectly results in the biosynthesis of additional methionine. Manipulation of the S-methylmethionine cycle may provide a new approach for improving the nutritional value of major grain crops such as rice, as methionine is a limiting essential amino acid for mammalian diets.
18208525	Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) or vivipary in cereals is an important agronomic trait that results in significant economic loss. A considerable number of mutations that cause PHS have been identified in several species. However, relatively few viviparous mutants in rice (Oryza sativa L.) have been reported. To explore the mechanism of PHS in rice, we carried out an extensive genetic screening and identified 12 PHS mutants (phs). Based on their phenotypes, these phs mutants were classified into three groups. Here we characterize in detail one of these groups, which contains mutations in genes encoding major enzymes of the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway, including phytoene desaturase (OsPDS), zeta-carotene desaturase (OsZDS), carotenoid isomerase (OsCRTISO) and lycopene beta-cyclase (beta-OsLCY), which are essential for the biosynthesis of carotenoid precursors of ABA. As expected, the amount of ABA was reduced in all four phs mutants compared with that in the wild type. Chlorophyll fluorescence analysis revealed the occurrence of photoinhibition in the photosystem and decreased capacity for eliminating excess energy by thermal dissipation. The greatly increased activities of reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging enzymes, and reduced photosystem (PS) II core proteins CP43, CP47 and D1 in leaves of the Oscrtiso/phs3-1mutant and OsLCY RNAi transgenic rice indicated that photo-oxidative damage occurred in PS II, consistent with the accumulation of ROS in these plants. These results suggest that the impairment of carotenoid biosynthesis causes photo-oxidation and ABA-deficiency phenotypes, of which the latter is a major factor controlling the PHS trait in rice.
18208628	Semi-dwarfism is an important agronomic trait in rice breeding programmes. sd-1, termed the 'Green Revolution gene', confers semi-dwarf stature, increases harvest index, improves lodging resistance, and is associated with increased responsiveness to nitrogen fertilizer. It has contributed substantially to the significant increase in rice production. In this paper, a novel semi-dwarf mutant in rice is reported. Genetic analysis revealed that only a single dominant gene locus non-allelic to sd-1, temporarily designated Sdt97, is involved in the control of semi-dwarfism of the mutant. The semi-dwarfism of the mutant could be partly restored to the tall wild-type by application of exogenous GA3, suggesting that the mutant gene Sdt97 may be involved in the gibberellin (GA) synthesis pathway and not the GA response pathway in rice. A residual heterozygous line (RHL) population derived from a recombinant inbred line (RIL) was developed. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) and bulked segregation analysis (BSA) combined with recessive class analysis (RCA) techniques were used to map Sdt97 to the long arm of chromosome 6 at the interval between two STS markers, N6 and TX5, with a genetic distance of 0.2 cM and 0.8 cM, respectively. A contig map was constructed based on the reference sequence aligned by the Sdt97 linked markers. The physical map of the Sdt97 locus was defined to a 118 kb interval, and 19 candidate genes were detected in the target region. This is the first time that a dominant semi-dwarf gene has been reported in rice. Cloning and functional analysis of gene Sdt97 will help us to learn more about molecular mechanism of rice semi-dwarfism.
18210155	Gibberellins (GAs) regulate growth and development in higher plants. To identify GA-regulated proteins during rice leaf sheath elongation, a proteomic approach was used. Proteins from the basal region of leaf sheath in rice seedling treated with GA(3) were analyzed by fluorescence two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. The levels of abscisic acid-stress-ripening-inducible 5 protein (ASR5), elongation factor-1 beta, translationally controlled tumor protein, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase and a novel protein increased; whereas the level of RuBisCO subunit binding-protein decreased by GA(3) treatment. ASR5 out of these six proteins was significantly regulated by GA(3) at the protein level but not at the mRNA level in the basal region of leaf sheaths. Since this protein is regulated not only by abscisic acid but also by GA(3), these results indicate that ASR5 might be involved in plant growth in addition to stress in the basal regions of leaf sheaths.
18210171	Brachypodium, a wild temperate grass with a small genome, was recently proposed as a new model organism for the large-genome grasses. In this study, we evaluated gene content and microcolinearity between diploid wheat (Triticum monococcum), Brachypodium sylvaticum, and rice at a local genomic region harboring the major wheat domestication gene Q. Gene density was much lower in T. monococcum (one per 41 kb) because of gene duplication and an abundance of transposable elements within intergenic regions as compared to B. sylvaticum (one per 14 kb) and rice (one per 10 kb). For the Q gene region, microcolinearity was more conserved between wheat and rice than between wheat and Brachypodium because B. sylvaticum contained two genes apparently not present within the orthologous regions of T. monococcum and rice. However, phylogenetic analysis of Q and leukotriene A-4 hydrolase-like gene orthologs, which were colinear among the three species, showed that Brachypodium is more closely related to wheat than rice, which agrees with previous studies. We conclude that Brachypodium will be a useful tool for gene discovery, comparative genomics, and the study of evolutionary relationships among the grasses but will not preclude the need to conduct large-scale genomics experiments in the Triticeae.
18211372	The physicochemical properties and structure of an insect-resistant rice, Liangyou Kefeng Nr. 6 (IRR), containing the sck and cryIAc genes were compared with those of its nontransgenic counterpart designated as Liangyou 2186 (control), considering their key role in determining commercial value. Basically the appearance of IRR was not affected in terms of size and shape after foreign gene transformation but improved with lower chalkiness. The milling yield of IRR with lower chalkiness was higher measured by head rice yield compared with its parental control. The differences in appearance and milling quality were confirmed by the structure of raw rice grain by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Slight differences were observed in pasting properties and textural quality determined by rapid viscosity analyzer and texture analyzer which was in agreement with the result of the structure of cooked rice grain by SEM. The above differences might be as a result of a positional effect of T-DNA insertion. On the whole, the appearance, milling quality, and eating quality of IRR were not adversely affected by transgenes, which will facilitate its acceptance by the consumer after commercialization.
18211919	In the three-dimensional structure of a rice class I chitinase (OsChia1b) determined recently, a loop structure (loop II) is located at the end of the substrate-binding cleft, and is thus suggested to be involved in substrate binding. In order to test this assumption, deletion of the loop II region from the catalytic domain of OsChia1b and replacement of Trp159 in loop II with Ala were carried out. The loop II deletion and the W159A mutation increased hydrolytic activity not only towards (GlcNAc)6 but also towards polysaccharide substrates. Similar results were obtained for kcat/Km values determined for substrate reduced-(GlcNAc)5. The two mutations shifted the splitting positions in (GlcNAc)6 to the reducing end side, but the shift was less intensive in the Trp mutant. Theoretical analysis of the reaction time course indicated that sugar residue affinity at the +3 subsite was reduced from -2 kcal/mol to +0.5 kcal/mol by loop II deletion. Reduced affinity at the +3 subsite might enhance the release of product fragments, resulting in higher turnover and higher enzymatic activities. Thus, we concluded that loop II is involved in sugar residue binding at the +3 subsite, but that Trp159 itself appears to contribute only partly to sugar residue interaction at the subsite.
18213519	Serotonin N-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (SHT) is a key enzyme in the synthesis of feruloylserotonin (FS) and 4-coumaroylserotonin (CS). These serotonin derivatives show strong antioxidant activity, making them valuable for both nutritional and pharmacological use in humans. Ectopic expression of SHT under the control of the endosperm specific-glutelin and prolamin promoters from rice was produced via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. SHT expression was confirmed by Southern blot analysis, followed by Northern blotting and SHT enzyme activity analyses using total RNA and protein, respectively, extracted from transgenic seeds. The glutelin A3 (GluA3) promoter produced low SHT mRNA expression in rice seeds, whereas the prolamin promoter expressed high levels of SHT mRNA. In spite of the ectopic expression of SHT in rice seeds, both transgenic genotypes accumulated levels of serotonin derivatives similar to those found in wild-type rice. Furthermore, our data suggest that serotonin, rather than phenylpropanid-CoAs, is the rate-limiting substrate in the biosynthesis of serotonin derivatives in SHT-overexpressing transgenic rice seeds.
18214017	The bioavailability (relative bioavailability value; RBV) of iron compounds relative to ferrous sulfate has proven useful in ranking the potential of iron compounds for food fortification. The efficacy of iron-fortified foods however depends on the absolute iron absorption from the fortified food and not on the RBV of the iron compound. Compounds of lower RBV can be used to design efficacious fortified foods by adding them at an appropriately higher level. Efficacy thus depends on the amount of iron added to the food vehicle as well as the daily consumption of the fortified food by the target population, the amount of iron lacking in the diet of the target population in relation to their needs, and the prevalence of widespread infections and other micronutrient deficiencies. The World Health Organization has recently published guidelines for food fortification, which include recommendations for iron fortification compounds and a method of how to define the iron fortification level. The same organization has also published guidelines on the iron status methods to be used to monitor interventions. Recent efficacy studies, which have to a large extent followed these guidelines, have shown good efficacy of iron-fortified salt, fish sauce, wheat flour, and rice in improving the iron status of target populations. However, although we now know how to design an efficacious iron-fortified food, efficacy cannot be ensured in populations with widespread infections and other micronutrient deficiencies. In such situations, other public health measures may be necessary before we can ensure an improvement in iron status.
18214021	A number of algorithms have been developed that seek to predict the bioavailability of iron from mixed meals and diets, but their direct validity in predicting change in iron status remains questionable. Throughout the course of conducting a large feeding trial in convents in Manila, we collected weighed food-intake data and have the opportunity to directly compare the performance of these prediction equations. The specific aims of this particular analysis are as follows: (a) to determine habitual intakes of macro- and micronutrients in religious sisters in Manila, (b) to determine the predicted efficiency of iron absorption from each of the published bioavailability algorithms (Monsen, Hallberg, Reddy, Tseng, Barghava, and Du), and (c) to determine which of these equations best predicts the actual "gain" in iron in religious sisters over the duration of the trial. The efficacy of consuming high-iron rice was tested during a nine-month feeding trial with a double-blinded dietary intervention; these results have been published [7]. Religious sisters living in 10 convents around metropolitan Manila, the Philippines were randomly assigned to consume either high-iron rice (3.21 mg/kg Fe) or a local variety of control rice (0.57 mg/kg Fe) within each convent. Religious sisters in convents consumed a diet that appeared to be typical of habitual intakes of macro-and micronutrients in this part of the Philippines. The analysis of the six equations revealed highly significant differences in predicted efficiency of iron absorption. The Hallberg, Monsen, and Reddy equations all predicted similar median efficiency (6.88, 7.92, and 6.42%). In contrast, Bhargava (4.68%), Tseng (3.23%), and Du (2.92%) were significantly lower. The correlation (r = 0.98) of Monsen to Hallberg was highly significant and the slope was not different than unity. The median efficiency of absorption based on the gain in body iron in 114 subjects over nine months, combined with an estimate of daily iron requirements, was 17.2%. Thus, none of these equations approximated the computed iron absorption based on improvement in serum ferritin and suggests alternative approaches to predicting iron accumulation from diet need to be formulated. Inhibitory factors in the prediction equations either had little effect or had too large of an effect on apparent bioavailability as compared to median absorption over a nine-month period. The causes of the lack of agreement between computed iron gain and predicted absorption are open to discussion and will need to be resolved.
18214422	The genes encoding for 18S-5.8S-28S ribosomal RNA (rDNA) are both conserved and diversified. We used rDNA as probe in the fluorescent in situ hybridization (rDNA-FISH) to localized rDNAs on chromosomes of 15 accessions representing ten Oryza species. These included cultivated and wild species of rice, and four of them are tetraploids. Our results reveal polymorphism in the number of rDNA loci, in the number of rDNA repeats, and in their chromosomal positions among Oryza species. The numbers of rDNA loci varies from one to eight among Oryza species. The rDNA locus located at the end of the short arm of chromosome 9 is conserved among the genus Oryza. The rDNA locus at the end of the short arm of chromosome 10 was lost in some of the accessions. In this study, we report two genome specific rDNA loci in the genus Oryza. One is specific to the BB genome, which was localized at the end of the short arm of chromosome 4. Another may be specific to the CC genome, which was localized in the proximal region of the short arm of chromosome 5. A particular rDNA locus was detected as stretched chromatin with bright signals at the proximal region of the short arm of chromosome 4 in O. grandiglumis by rDNA-FISH. We suggest that chromosomal inversion and the amplification and transposition of rDNA might occur during Oryza species evolution. The possible mechanisms of cyto-evolution in tetraploid Oryza species are discussed.
18214526	Lsi1 (OsNIP2;1) is the first silicon (silicic acid) transporter identified in plant, which belongs to the nodulin 26-like intrinsic membrane protein (NIP) subfamily. In this study, we characterized the function of this transporter by using the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system. The transport activity of Lsi1 for silicic acid was significantly inhibited by HgCl2 but not by low temperature. Lsi1 also showed an efflux transport activity for silicic acid. The substrate specificity study showed that Lsi1 was able to transport urea and boric acid; however, the transport activity for silicic acid was not affected by the presence of equimolar urea and was decreased only slightly by boric acid. Furthermore, among the NIPs subgroup, OsNIP2;2 showed transport activity for silicic acid, whereas OsNIP1;1 and OsNIP3;1 did not. We propose that Lsi1 and its close homologues form a unique subgroup of NIP with a distinct ar/R selectivity filter, which is located in the narrowest region on the extra-membrane mouth and govern the substrate specificity of the pore.
18214888	Propanil is a postemergence herbicide used primarily in rice and wheat production in the United States. The reported toxicities for propanil exposure include methemoglobinemia, immunotoxicity, and nephrotoxicity. A major metabolite of propanil, 3,4-dichloroaniline (3,4-DCA), has been shown to be a nephrotoxicant in vivo and in vitro, but the nephrotoxic potential of propanil has not been examined in detail. The purpose of this study was to determine the nephrotoxic potential of propanil using an in vitro kidney model, determine whether in vitro propanil nephrotoxicity is due to metabolites arising from propanil hydrolysis, and examine mechanistic aspects of propanil nephrotoxicity in vitro. Propanil, 3,4-DCA, propionic acid (0.1-5.0 mM), or vehicle was incubated for 15-120 min with isolated renal cortical cells (IRCC; approximately 4 million cells/mL) obtained from untreated male Fischer 344 rats. Cytotoxicity was determined by measuring lactate dehydrogenase release from IRCC. In 120-min incubations, propanil induced cytotoxicity at concentrations >0.5 mM. At 1.0 mM, propanil induced cytotoxicity following 60- or 120-min exposure. Cytotoxicity was observed with 3,4-DCA (2.0 mM) at 60 and 120 min, while propionic acid (5.0 mM) induced cytotoxicity at 60 min. In IRCC pretreated with an antioxidant, cytochrome P450(CYP) inhibitor, flavin adenine dinucleotide monooxygenase activity modulator, or cyclooxygenase inhibitor before propanil exposure (1.0 mM; 120 min), only piperonyl butoxide (0.1 mM), a CYP inhibitor, pretreatment decreased propanil cytotoxicity. These results demonstrate that propanil is an in vitro nephrotoxicant in IRCC. Propanil nephrotoxicity is not primarily due to metabolites resulting from hydrolysis of propanil, but a metabolite resulting from propanil oxidation may contribute to propanil cytotoxicity.
18215330	Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) play key roles in various cellular functions. In addition, some critical inter-species interactions such as host-pathogen interactions and pathogenicity occur through PPIs. Phytopathogenic bacteria infect hosts through attachment to host tissue, enzyme secretion, exopolysaccharides production, toxins release, iron acquisition, and effector proteins secretion. Many such mechanisms involve some kind of protein-protein interaction in hosts. Our first aim was to predict the whole protein interaction pairs (interactome) of Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae (Xoo) that is an important pathogenic bacterium that causes bacterial blight (BB) in rice. We developed a detection protocol to find possibly interacting proteins in its host using whole genome PPI prediction algorithms. The second aim was to build a DB server and a bioinformatic procedure for finding target proteins in Xoo for developing pesticides that block host-pathogen protein interactions within critical biochemical pathways. A PPI network in Xoo proteome was predicted by bioinformatics algorithms: PSIMAP, PEIMAP, and iPfam. We present the resultant species specific interaction network and host-pathogen interaction, XooNET. It is a comprehensive predicted initial PPI data for Xoo. XooNET can be used by experimentalists to pick up protein targets for blocking pathological interactions. XooNET uses most of the major types of PPI algorithms. They are: 1) Protein Structural Interactome MAP (PSIMAP), a method using structural domain of SCOP, 2) Protein Experimental Interactome MAP (PEIMAP), a common method using public resources of experimental protein interaction information such as HPRD, BIND, DIP, MINT, IntAct, and BioGrid, and 3) Domain-domain interactions, a method using Pfam domains such as iPfam. Additionally, XooNET provides information on network properties of the Xoo interactome. XooNET is an open and free public database server for protein interaction information for Xoo. It contains 4,538 proteins and 26,932 possible interactions consisting of 18,503 (PSIMAP), 3,118 (PEIMAP), and 8,938 (iPfam) pairs. In addition, XooNET provides 3,407 possible interaction pairs between two sets of proteins; 141 Xoo proteins that are predicted as membrane proteins and rice proteomes. The resultant interacting partners of a query protein can be easily retrieved by users as well as the interaction networks in graphical web interfaces. XooNET is freely available from http://bioportal.kobic.kr/XooNET/.
18215453	As part of the SAFOTEST project the immunmodulating effect of Cry1Ab protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) and PHA-E lectin from kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris erythroagglutinin) was examined in 28- and 90-day feeding studies in Wistar rats. PHA-E lectin was chosen as positive control. Rats were fed control rice, transgenic rice expressing Cry1Ab protein or PHA-E lectin, or transgenic rice spiked with the purified recombinant protein. Total immunoglobulin levels, mitogen-induced cell proliferation, T-dependent antibody response to sheep red blood cells and the antigen-specific antibody response in serum were examined at the end of the studies. A dose-dependent increase in mesenteric lymph node weight and total immunoglobulin A was seen when feeding PHA-E transgenic rice alone or spiked with 0.1% purified PHA-E lectin for 90 days indicating a local effect of PHA-E in the intestine. No adverse effects of Cry1Ab protein were found. An anti-PHA-E and anti-Cry1Ab antibody response was induced both after inhalation (control groups) and after inhalation/ingestion (groups fed recombinant protein alone or together with transgenic rice). In conclusion, only PHA-E lectin was found to have an immunomodulating effect when feeding rats for 90 days with approximately 70 mg PHA-E/kg bodyweight per day. As both PHA-E lectin and Cry1Ab protein were capable of inducing an antigen-specific antibody response it is important to make careful considerations when designing future animal studies to avoid intake of proteins from the other groups by inhalation as well as to examine the sensitization and elicitation potential of 'foreign' proteins before introduction to the world market.
18215635	Nukadoko is the fermented rice bran bed traditionally used for pickling vegetables in Japan. Here, we investigate the bacterial community structure of nukadoko using several culture-independent methods. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and sequence analysis of V2-V3 16S rRNA gene (16S rDNA) fragments amplified from a long-aged nukadoko bacterial community indicated seven predominant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) closely related to known Lactobacillus species. Phylogenetic analysis of these OTUs indicated a major cluster consisting of six OTUs including a dominant OTU closely related to Lactobacillus acidifarinae and one distinct OTU corresponding to Lactobacillus acetotolerans. L. acetotolerans was commonly detected as a dominant species in samples from different seasons. The succession of microbial community structure in the fermentation and ripening processes was investigated using a laboratory model nukadoko. The L. acidifarinae-like bacteria grew rapidly with a pH decrease in the first few days after inoculation, whereas L. acetotolerans grew slowly and became dominant after one week. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) showed that the doubling time of L. acetotolerans was 12 h, while that of total bacteria was 4 h. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (Q-RT-PCR) targeting 16S rRNA showed a low metabolic activity of L. acetotolerans throughout the fermentation and ripening processes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showed that L. acetotolerans was a dominant bacterium in the ripening period and had a low metabolic activity. These results indicate that the slow-growing L. acetotolerans stably dominated nukadoko microbiota after the L. acidifarinae-like bacteria mainly contributed to the lactic acid fermentation of the rice bran.
18217459	Policosanol is an agent that includes mixtures of aliphatic primary alcohols extracted primarily from sugercane wax. Policosanol has been shown to lower total and LDL cholesterol in animal models, healthy volunteers and hypercholesterolemic patients. However, these findings have been challanged recently. Up to now, there has been no study investigating the effects ofpolicosanol on blood coagulation factors. This study investigated the effects of rice policosanol (Oryza sp.) 10 mg/day on blood coagulation factors in 66 hypercholesterolemic patients of both sexes aged 20 to 78 years in a single center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. After an 8-week run-in period in which patients were placed on therapeutic lifestyle changes, in particular a cholesterol-lowering diet, they were randomly assigned to receive rice policosanol 10 mg tablets or placebo tablets once daily with the evening meal for 8 weeks. During next 8 weeks those receiving policosanol during the first 8 weeks, received placebo and those taking placebo during the first 8 weeks, received policosanol. Plasma fibrinogen, factors VII, VIII, XII and XIII were measured before and after the treatment. Rice policosanol treatment did not change significantly neither fibrinogen nor factors VII, VIII, XII and XIII.
1821763	The 5' region of the rice actin 1 gene (Act1) has been developed as an efficient regulator of foreign gene expression in transgenic rice plants. To determine the pattern and level of rice Act1 5' region activity, transgenic rice plants containing the Act1 5' region fused to a bacterial beta-glucuronidase (Gus) coding sequence were generated. Two independent clonal lines of transgenic rice plants were analyzed in detail. Quantitative analysis showed that tissue from these transgenic rice plants have a level of GUS protein that represents as much as 3% of total soluble protein. We were able to demonstrate that Act1-Gus gene expression is constitutive throughout the sporophytic and gametophytic tissues of these transgenic rice plants. Plants from one transgenic line were analyzed for the segregation of GUS activity in pollen by in situ histochemical staining, and the inheritance and stability of Act1-Gus expression were assayed in subsequently derived progeny plants.
18218929	Two strictly anaerobic bacterial strains (SV434(T) and S562) were isolated from rice-straw residue in a methanogenic reactor treating waste from cattle farms in Japan. They had identical 16S rRNA gene sequences and showed almost the same phenotypic properties. The cells of both strains were Gram-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming rods; extraordinarily long rods often occurred. Remarkable stimulation of growth occurred with the addition of haemin and cobalamin (vitamin B(12)) to the medium. The supplementary cobalamin and haemin could be replaced if autoclaved and clarified sludge fluid obtained from the reactor was added. Both strains utilized a range of growth substrates, including arabinose, fructose, galactose, glucose, mannose, cellobiose, maltose, glycogen, starch, dextrin, amygdalin, lactate and pyruvate. Both strains produced acetate and propionate with a small amount of succinate from these substrates in the presence of haemin and cobalamin. Both strains were slightly alkaliphilic, having a pH optimum at about 7.9. The temperature range for growth was 5-35 degrees C, the optimum being 30 degrees C. The NaCl concentration range for growth was 0-4 % (w/v). Catalase activity was not detected in cells cultivated without haemin, whereas cells cultivated with haemin usually had the enzyme activity. Oxidase and nitrate-reducing activities were not detected. Aesculin was hydrolysed, but gelatin was not hydrolysed. Both strains were sensitive to bile acids. The major cellular fatty acids of both strains were anteiso-C(15 : 0) and iso-C(15 : 0). Menaquinones MK-8(H(0)) and MK-9(H(0)) were the major respiratory quinones and the genomic DNA G+C contents were 46.2-47.5 mol%. A phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences placed both strains in the phylum Bacteroidetes. Bacteroides coprosuis (isolated from swine-manure storage pits) was the species most closely related to both strains (95.9 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to the type strain). On the basis of the phylogenetic, physiological and chemotaxonomic analyses, strains SV434(T) and S562 represent a novel species of the genus Bacteroides, for which the name Bacteroides propionicifaciens sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is SV434(T) (=JCM 14649(T) =DSM 19291(T)).
18219477	In our previous studies, one putative QTL affecting number of spikelets per panicle (SPP) was identified in the pericentromeric region of rice chromosome 7 using a recombinant inbred population. In order to define the QTL (qSPP7), RI50, a recombinant inbred line with 70% of genetic background same as the female parent of Zhenshan 97, was selected to produce near-isogenic lines for the target region in the present study. In a BC(2)F(2) population consisting of 190 plants, the frequency distribution of SPP was shown to be discontinuous and followed the expected Mendelian ratios (1:2:1 by progeny test) for single locus segregation. qSPP7 was mapped to a 0.4 cM region between SSR marker RM3859 and RFLP marker C39 based on tests of the BC(2)F(2) population and its progeny. Its additive and dominant effects on SPP were 51.1 and 24.9 spikelets, respectively. Of great interest, the QTL region also had effects on grain yield per plant (YD), 1,000 grain weight (GW), tillers per plant (TPP) and seed setting ratio (SR). Significant correlations were observed between SPP and YD (r = 0.66) and between SPP and SR (r = -0.29) in the progeny test. 1082 extremely small panicle plants of a BC(3)F(2) population containing 8,400 individuals were further used to fine map the QTL. It turns out that qSPP7 co-segregated with two markers, RM5436 and RM5499 spanning a physical distance of 912.4 kb. Overall results suggested that recombination suppression occurred in the region and positional cloning strategy is infeasible for qSPP7 isolation. The higher grain yield of Minghui 63 homozygote as compared to the heterozygote suggested that Minghui 63 homozygote at qSPP7 in hybrid rice could further improve its yield.
18219493	We report an in-depth characterization of two major stress proteins namely SUMO-conjugating enzyme (Sce) and peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Sce mediates addition of SUMO group to various cell proteins, through process referred to as SUMOylation. Rice nuclear genome has two putative genes encoding the Sce protein (OsSce1 and OsSce2). PCR-amplified full-length OsSce1 cDNA functionally complemented the growth defect in yeast cells lacking the equivalent Ubc9 protein (ScDeltaubc9). RT-PCR analysis showed that transcript levels of OsSce1 and OsSce2 in rice seedlings were regulated by temperature stress. OsSce1 protein was localized to the nucleus in onion epidermal cells as evidenced by the transient GFP expression analysis following micro-projectile gun-based shooting of an OsSce1-GFP fusion construct. PPIase proteins assist molecular chaperones in reactions associated with protein folding and protein transport across membrane. There are 23 putative genes encoding for FK506-binding proteins (FKBPs; specific class of PPIase) in rice genome. OsFKBP20 cDNA was isolated as a stress-inducible EST clone. Largest ORF of 561 bases in OsFKBP20 showed characteristic FK506-binding domain at N-terminus and a coiled-coil motif at C-terminus. RNA expression analysis indicated that OsFKBP20 transcript is heat-inducible. OsFKBP20 over-expression in yeast endowed capacity of high temperature tolerance to yeast cells. Yeast two-hybrid analysis showed that OsSce1 protein physically interacts with the OsFKBP20 protein. It is thus proposed that OsSce1 and OsFKBP20 proteins in concert mediate the stress response of rice plants.
18220154	Suspended particles, of which bioaerosols are one type, constitute one of the main reasons to cause severe air quality in Taiwan. Bioaerosols include allergens such as fungi, bacteria, actinomycetes, arthropods and protozoa, as well as microbial products such as mycotoxins, endotoxins and glucans. When allergens and microbial products are suspended in the air, local air quality will be influenced severely. In addition, when the particle size is small enough to pass through the respiratory tract entering the human body, the health of the local population is also threatened. Therefore, the purpose of this study attempted to understand the concentration and types of bacteria during summer period at four sampling sites in Taichung city, central Taiwan. The results indicated that total average bacterial concentration by using R2A medium incubated for 48 h were 7.3 x 10(2) and 1.2 x 10(3) cfu/m3 for Chung-Ming elementary sampling site during daytime and night-time period of summer season. In addition, total average bacterial concentration by using R2A medium incubated for 48 h were 2.2 x 10(3) and 2.5 x 10(3) cfu/m3 for Taichung refuse incineration plant sampling site during daytime and night-time period of summer season. As for Rice Field sampling site during daytime and night-time period of summer season, the results also reflected that the total average bacterial concentration by using R2A medium incubated for 48 h were 3.4 x 10(3) and 3.5 x 10(3) cfu/m3. Finally, total average bacterial concentration by using R2A medium incubated for 48 h were 1.6 x 10(3) and 1.9 x 10(3) cfu/m3 for Central Taiwan Science Park sampling site during daytime and night-time period of summer season. Moreover, the average bacterial concentration increased as the incubated time in a growth medium increased for particle sizes of 0.65-1.1, 1.1-2.1, 2.1-3.3, 3.3-4.7 and 4.7-7.0 microm. The total average bacterial concentration has no significant difference for day and night sampling period at any sampling site for the expression of bacterial concentration in term of order. The high average bacterial concentration was found in the particle size of 0.53-0.71 mm (average bioaerosol size was in the range of 2.1-4.7 microm) for each sampling site. Besides, there were exceeded 20 kinds of bacteria for each sampling site and the bacterial shape were rod, coccus and filamentous.
1822069	The low energy density of the diets has been proposed by several authors as an essential factor which conditions the inadequate energy intake of preschool children of developing countries. However, there are few controlled studies in relation to the volumes which children are able to consume when energy density changes. The objective of this research was to establish recommended values of energy density for preparations with a soup or gruel consistency. The study was carried out in 100 preschool children from 3 to 4 years old who attended a Day Care Center in Santiago, Chile. Six formulas of a mixture of extruded pea-rice with different energy densities and viscosities: 0.8, 1.2 and 1.6 kcal/g and 3,000 and 9,000 cp. were studied. These experimental conditions were obtained modifying the product concentration and adding malt flour. Food consumption was determined at lunch time. Energy adequacy was calculated using the 1985 FAO-OMS-UNU requirements. Children increased significantly their energy intake when energy density of both types of consistency, soup or gruel, was higher. Energy adequacy ranged from 15% when preparations had an energy density of 0.8 kcal/g to 35%, when the preparations had an energy density of 1.6 kcal/g. The formulas which had 1.6 kcal/g fulfilled 100% of the energy requirements of preschool children for lunch time, and should be the recommended energy density for soup or gruels, when they are given as the only food. The energy density of 1.2 kcal/g needs a food complement which supplies 120 kcal, and lower values would be inadequate for preschool children feeding purposes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
18221524	Regulation of gene expression at the level of transcription is a major control point in many biological processes. Transcription factors (TFs) can activate and/or repress the transcriptional rate of target genes and vascular plant genomes devote approximately 7% of their coding capacity to TFs. Global analysis of TFs has only been performed for three complete higher plant genomes - Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), poplar (Populus trichocarpa) and rice (Oryza sativa). Presently, no large-scale analysis of TFs has been made from a member of the Solanaceae, one of the most important families of vascular plants. To fill this void, we have analysed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) TFs using a dataset of 1,159,022 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) obtained by methylation filtering of the tobacco genome. An analytical pipeline was developed to isolate TF sequences from the GSR data set. This involved multiple (typically 10-15) independent searches with different versions of the TF family-defining domain(s) (normally the DNA-binding domain) followed by assembly into contigs and verification. Our analysis revealed that tobacco contains a minimum of 2,513 TFs representing all of the 64 well-characterised plant TF families. The number of TFs in tobacco is higher than previously reported for Arabidopsis and rice. TOBFAC: the database of tobacco transcription factors, is an integrative database that provides a portal to sequence and phylogeny data for the identified TFs, together with a large quantity of other data concerning TFs in tobacco. The database contains an individual page dedicated to each of the 64 TF families. These contain background information, domain architecture via Pfam links, a list of all sequences and an assessment of the minimum number of TFs in this family in tobacco. Downloadable phylogenetic trees of the major families are provided along with detailed information on the bioinformatic pipeline that was used to find all family members. TOBFAC also contains EST data, a list of published tobacco TFs and a list of papers concerning tobacco TFs. The sequences and annotation data are stored in relational tables using a PostgrelSQL relational database management system. The data processing and analysis pipelines used the Perl programming language. The web interface was implemented in JavaScript and Perl CGI running on an Apache web server. The computationally intensive data processing and analysis pipelines were run on an Apple XServe cluster with more than 20 nodes. TOBFAC is an expandable knowledgebase of tobacco TFs with data currently available for over 2,513 TFs from 64 gene families. TOBFAC integrates available sequence information, phylogenetic analysis, and EST data with published reports on tobacco TF function. The database provides a major resource for the study of gene expression in tobacco and the Solanaceae and helps to fill a current gap in studies of TF families across the plant kingdom. TOBFAC is publicly accessible at http://compsysbio.achs.virginia.edu/tobfac/.
18221561	Genes in the CCCH family encode zinc finger proteins containing the motif with three cysteines and one histidine residues. They have been known to play important roles in RNA processing as RNA-binding proteins in animals. To date, few plant CCCH proteins have been studied functionally. In this study, a comprehensive computational analysis identified 68 and 67 CCCH family genes in Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. A complete overview of this gene family in Arabidopsis was presented, including the gene structures, phylogeny, protein motifs, and chromosome locations. In addition, a comparative analysis between these genes in Arabidopsis and rice was performed. These results revealed that the CCCH families in Arabidopsis and rice were divided into 11 and 8 subfamilies, respectively. The gene duplication contributed to the expansion of the CCCH gene family in Arabidopsis genome. Expression studies indicated that CCCH proteins exhibit a variety of expression patterns, suggesting diverse functions. Finally, evolutionary analysis showed that one subfamily is higher plant specific. The expression profile indicated that most members of this subfamily are regulated by abiotic or biotic stresses, suggesting that they could have an effective role in stress tolerance. Our comparative genomics analysis of CCCH genes and encoded proteins in two model plant species provides the first step towards the functional dissection of this emerging family of potential RNA-binding proteins.
18221870	New value-added product was derived from agricultural by-products: rice bran and soybean meal by means of subcritical water (SW) hydrolysis. The effect of temperature (200-220 degrees C), reaction time (10-30 min), raw material-to-water weight ratio (1:5 and 2:5), was determined on the yields of protein, total amino acids, and reducing sugars in the soluble products. The suitable hydrolysis time was 30 min and the proper weight ratio of the raw material-to-water was 1:5. The reaction temperature suitable for the production of protein and amino acids was 220 degrees C for raw and deoiled rice bran, 210 degrees C for raw soybean meal, and 200 degrees C for deoiled soybean meal. The products were also found to have antioxidant activity as tested by ABTS(.)(+) scavenging assay. In addition, sensory evaluation of milk added with the hydrolysis product of deoiled rice bran indicated the potential use of the product as a nutritious drink.
18222943	Plastids are descended from a cyanobacterial symbiosis which occurred over 1.2 billion years ago. During the course of endosymbiosis, most genes were lost from the cyanobacterium's genome and many were relocated to the host nucleus through endosymbiotic gene transfer (EGT). The issue of how many genes were acquired through EGT in different plant lineages is unresolved. Here, we report the genome-wide frequency of gene acquisitions from cyanobacteria in 4 photosynthetic eukaryotes--Arabidopsis, rice, Chlamydomonas, and the red alga Cyanidioschyzon--by comparison of the 83,138 proteins encoded in their genomes with 851,607 proteins encoded in 9 sequenced cyanobacterial genomes, 215 other reference prokaryotic genomes, and 13 reference eukaryotic genomes. The analyses entail 11,569 phylogenies inferred with both maximum likelihood and Neighbor-Joining approaches. Because each phylogenetic result is dependent not only upon the reconstruction method but also upon the site patterns in the underlying alignment, we investigated how the reliability of site pattern generation via alignment affects our results: if the site patterns in an alignment differ depending upon the order in which amino acids are introduced into multiple sequence alignment--N- to C-terminal versus C- to N-terminal--then the phylogenetic result is likely to be artifactual. Excluding unreliable alignments by this means, we obtain a conservative estimate, wherein about 14% of the proteins examined in each plant genome indicate a cyanobacterial origin for the corresponding nuclear gene, with higher proportions (17-25%) observed among the more reliable alignments. The identification of cyanobacterial genes in plant genomes affords access to an important question: from which type of cyanobacterium did the ancestor of plastids arise? Among the 9 cyanobacterial genomes sampled, Nostoc sp. PCC7120 and Anabaena variabilis ATCC29143 were found to harbor collections of genes which are-in terms of presence/absence and sequence similarity-more like those possessed by the plastid ancestor than those of the other 7 cyanobacterial genomes sampled here. This suggests that the ancestor of plastids might have been an organism more similar to filamentous, heterocyst-forming (nitrogen-fixing) representatives of section IV recognized in Stanier's cyanobacterial classification. Members of section IV are very common partners in contemporary symbiotic associations involving endosymbiotic cyanobacteria, which generally provide nitrogen to their host, consistent with suggestions that fixed nitrogen supplied by the endosymbiont might have played an important role during the origin of plastids.
18223036	A subset of WD40 proteins that contain a DWD motif (for DDB1 binding WD40) is reported to act as substrate receptors for DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 (for Damaged DNA Binding 1-Cullin 4-Regulator of Cullins 1) based E3 ubiquitin ligases in humans. Here, we report 85 Arabidopsis thaliana and 78 rice (Oryza sativa) proteins containing the conserved 16-amino acid DWD motif. We show by yeast two-hybrid and in vivo coimmunoprecipitation that 11 Arabidopsis DWD proteins directly interact with DDB1 and thus may serve as substrate receptors for the DDB1-CUL4 machinery. We further examine whether the DWD protein PRL1 (for Pleiotropic Regulatory Locus 1) may act as part of a CUL4-based E3 ligase. PRL1 directly interacts with DDB1, and prl1 and cul4cs mutants exhibited similar phenotypes, including altered responses to a variety of stimuli. Moreover, AKIN10 (for Arabidopsis SNF1 Kinase Homolog 10) was degraded more slowly in cell extracts of prl1 and cul4cs than in cell extracts of the wild type. Thus, both genetic and biochemical analyses support the conclusion that PRL1 is the substrate receptor of a CUL4-ROC1-DDB1-PRL1 E3 ligase involved in the degradation of AKIN10. This work adds a large new family to the current portfolio of plant E3 ubiquitin ligases.
18223202	RICE FLOWERING LOCUS T 1 (RFT1/FT-L3) is the closest homologue of Heading date 3a (Hd3a), which is thought to encode a mobile flowering signal and promote floral transition under short-day (SD) conditions. RFT1 is located only 11.5 kb from Hd3a on chromosome 6. Although RFT1 RNAi plants flowered normally, double RFT1-Hd3a RNAi plants did not flower up to 300 days after sowing (DAS), indicating that Hd3a and RFT1 are essential for flowering in rice. RFT1 expression was very low in wild-type plants, but there was a marked increase in RFT1 expression by 70 DAS in Hd3a RNAi plants, which flowered 90 DAS. H3K9 acetylation around the transcription initiation site of the RFT1 locus had increased by 70 DAS but not at 35 DAS. In the absence of Hd3a and RFT1 expression, transcription of OsMADS14 and OsMADS15, two rice orthologues of Arabidopsis APETALA1, was strongly reduced, suggesting that they act downstream of Hd3a and RFT1. These results indicate that Hd3a and RFT1 act as floral activators under SD conditions, and that RFT1 expression is partly regulated by chromatin modification.
18224446	Deoxymugineic acid (DMA) is a member of the mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs), which are natural metal chelators produced by graminaceous plants. Rice secretes DMA in response to Fe deficiency to take up Fe in the form of Fe(III)-MAs complex. In contrast with barley, the roots of which secrete MAs in response to Zn deficiency, the amount of DMA secreted by rice roots was slightly decreased under conditions of low Zn supply. There was a concomitant increase in endogenous DMA in rice shoots, suggesting that DMA plays a role in the translocation of Zn within Zn-deficient rice plants. The expression of OsNAS1 and OsNAS2 was not increased in Zn-deficient roots but that of OsNAS3 was increased in Zn-deficient roots and shoots. The expression of OsNAAT1 was also increased in Zn-deficient roots and dramatically increased in shoots; correspondingly, HPLC analysis was unable to detect nicotianamine in Zn-deficient shoots. The expression of OsDMAS1 was increased in Zn-deficient shoots. Analyses using the positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS) showed that Zn-deficient rice roots absorbed less (62)Zn-DMA than (62)Zn(2+). Importantly, supply of (62)Zn-DMA rather than (62)Zn(2+) increased the translocation of (62)Zn into the leaves of Zn-deficient plants. This was especially evident in the discrimination center (DC). These results suggest that DMA in Zn-deficient rice plants has an important role in the distribution of Zn within the plant rather than in the absorption of Zn from the soil.
1822455	The mosquito control potential of Gambusia affinis, a mosquito fish, was evaluated in rice fields in the Shahjahanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. This fish, at a stocking rate of 5 fishes/sq m, significantly reduced the larval and pupal densities in experimental fields as compared to control fields during the entire observation period of 42 days. Control of mosquito breeding in rice fields through this fish seems to be promising.
18226762	Enhanced quality of patient care and the prevention of errors are emphasized greatly in today's health care settings. Nurses are now held accountable for the care they provide and, as a result, nurses are responsible for incorporating solid scientific evidence into their practice. Published meta-analyses represent one source of such evidence. Meta-analyses offer statistical summarizations of all studies conducted about a particular phenomenon and more objective evaluation of the research often results. This article examines seven basic processes for evaluating meta-analyses and determining the value of their results for use in nursing practice.
18226892	In this work the effect of different pulping processes (ethyleneglycol, diethyleneglycol, ethanolamine and soda) of tow abounded raw materials (empty fruit bunches - EFB and rice straw) on the ash, silicates and metals (Fe, Zn, Cu, Pb, Mn, Ni and Cd) content of the obtained pulps have been studied. Results showed that pulps obtained by diethyleneglycol pulping process presented lower metals content (756 microg/g and 501 microg/g for EFB and rice straw pulp, respectively) than soda pulps (984 microg/g and 889 microg/g). Ethanolamine pulps presented values of holocellulose (74% and 77% for EFB and rice straw pulp, respectively), alpha-cellulose (74% and 69%), kappa number (18.7 and 18.5) and viscosity (612 and 90 6ml/g) similar to those of soda pulp, and lower lignin contents (11% and 12%).
18226934	Pyrenophora tritici-repentis requires the production of host-selective toxins (HSTs) to cause the disease tan spot of wheat, including Ptr ToxA, Ptr ToxB, and Ptr ToxC. Pyrenophora bromi, the species most closely related to P. tritici-repentis, is the causal agent of brown leaf spot of bromegrass. Because of the relatedness of P. bromi and P. tritici-repentis, we investigated the possibility that P. bromi contains sequences homologous to ToxA and/or ToxB, the products of which may be involved in its interaction with bromegrass. Multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed the presence of ToxB-like sequences in P. bromi and high-fidelity PCR was used to clone several of these loci, which were subsequently confirmed to be homologous to ToxB. Additionally, Southern analysis revealed ToxB from P. bromi to have a multicopy nature similar to ToxB from P. tritici-repentis. A combination of phylogenetic and Southern analyses revealed that the distribution of ToxB extends further into the Pleosporaceae, and a search of available fungal genomes identified a distant putative homolog in Magnaporthe grisea, causal agent of rice blast. Thus, unlike most described HSTs, ToxB homologs are present across a broad range of plant pathogenic ascomycetes, suggesting that it may have arose in an early ancestor of the Ascomycota.
18228540	The extraction of RNA from a starchy plant material, such as many common food grains, is difficult, and especially so from the mature endosperm of rice. Most commercial RNA kits are not suitable for starchy materials. Traditional RNA extraction procedures, in addition to being laborious and time consuming, leave hazardous organic wastes that result in expensive disposal costs. Interestingly, the numerous commercial DNA isolation kits now available often include directions for eliminating co-isolated RNA. This indicated an approach to obtain the generally unwanted RNA by-product by treating the total extraction product to intentionally retain RNA. A method was developed by which a two-step DNase procedure was applied to the product of the Cartagen Food DNA extraction kit that eliminated the DNA but left the co-extracted RNA. This modified procedure was compared with several other commercial and standard methods that are promoted as being able to work under high polysaccharide conditions. Successful extraction was determined by the production and amplification of cDNA by RT-PCR of actin. Extraction was successful from milled rice, as well as from cornmeal and wheat flour. The modification provides an RNA extraction method that is quick, easy, and inexpensive, and also eliminates the production of hazardous wastes.
1822888	A survey of 61 residents belonging to 12 pre-selected families (having at least one member positive for echinostomiasis malayanum) from Barangay Malibago, Echague, Isabela (northern Luzon) suggested that infections with Echinostoma malayanum follow a "familial trend". The parasite is endemic because the raw ingestion of Lymnaea (Bullastra) cumingiana, the second intermediate host in the Philippines, is a learned habit passed down from one generation to the next. A questionnaire on eating habits revealed that Lymnaea (Bullastra) cumingiana or "birabid" was usually prepared raw or half-cooked after treatment with salt or "bagoong" (salted fish paste). It was abundant in rice fields during the wet months of the year, thus implying a seasonal infection pattern since eating frequency was affected by availability. Those who ate this snail reported a long duration of indulgence with this habit. In contrast, Pila luzonica or "kuhol", the second intermediate host of E. ilocanum, is subjected to similar eating practices but is rarely ingested raw or "half-cooked". Other than snails, shrimps, fish (Tilapia sp.) and meat are also eaten raw. This suggests that the local population is potentially susceptible to other food-borne helminthiases. Extensive use of mass media and public health education is necessary to awaken the awareness of the people to the potential hazards associated with their traditional eating habits.
1822924	From 1975 to 1982, the prevalence of liver fluke infestation in Bali cattle of the island of Bali, Indonesia varied between 29% and 46%, and from 1983 to 1988 prevalence rates varied between 6% and 22%. Changes in prevalence rates were more closely associated with water levels in pastures than with other variables in pastures, such as temperatures and pH. Mass-fasciolicide treatment of traditionally reared Bali cattle was economical. The decrease in the prevalence of liver flukes in Bali cattle since 1983 was associated with (1) the introduction of a rice planting system which alternated rice with other crops, and (2) with mass-fasciolicide treatments conducted by the veterinary services.
18230414	To investigate the potential production of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), a solid-state column reactor of rice bran with Mortierella alpina was used. The optimal conditions for PUFAs production were rice bran supplementation with 3.75% (ww(-1)) nitrogen source at initial moisture content 57%, initial pH 6-7, aeration, and incubation at 20 degrees C for 5 days and then at 12 degrees C for 7 days. Each gram of substrate carbon yielded 127 mg of total PUFAs, 12 mg of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), 6 mg of arachidonic acid (AA), 5mg of alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), and 117 mg of linoleic acid (LA) after 12 days incubation. Aeration enhanced the productions of AA, EPA, and total PUFAs. Supplementation of the nitrogen source on the fourth day and then a shift to lower temperature on the fifth day increased EPA production.
18231866	Exonuclease 1, a class III member of the RAD2 nuclease family, is a structure-specific nuclease involved in DNA metabolism (replication, repair and recombination). We have identified a homologue to Exonuclease-1 from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) and have designated it O. sativa Exonuclease-1 (OsEXO1). The open reading frame of OsEXO1 encodes a predicted product of 836 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 92 kDa. Two highly conserved nuclease domains (XPG-N and XPG-I) are present in the N-terminal region of the protein. OsEXO1-sGFP fusion protein transiently overexpressed in the onion epidermal cells localized to the nucleus. The transcript of OsEXO1 is highly expressed in meristematic tissues and panicles. Inhibition of cell proliferation by removal of sucrose from the medium or by the addition of cell cycle inhibitors decreased OsEXO1 expression. Functional complementation assays using yeast RAD2 member null mutants demonstrates that OsEXO1 is able to substitute for ScEXO1 and ScRAD27 functions. Yeast two-hybrid analysis shows that OsEXO1 interacted with rice DNA polymerase lambda (OsPol lambda), the 70 kDa subunit b of rice replication protein A (OsRPA70b), and the 32 kDa subunit 1 of rice replication protein A (OsRPA32-1). Irradiation of UV-B induces OsEXO1 expression while hydrogen peroxide treatment represses it. These results suggest that OsEXO1 plays an important role in both cell proliferation and UV-damaged nuclear DNA repair pathway under dark conditions.
18232403	To provide a foundation for national resistance management of the Asiatic rice borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), a study was carried out to determine dose-response and susceptibility changes over a 5-yr period in the insect from representative rice, Oryza sativa L., production regions. In total, 11 populations were collected from 2002 to 2006 in seven rice-growing provinces in China, and they were used to examine their susceptibility levels to monosultap, triazophos, fipronil, and abamectin. Results indicated that most populations had increased tolerance to monosultap. Several field populations, especially those in the southeastern Zhejiang Province, were highly or extremely highly resistant to triazophos (resistance ratio [RR] = 52.57-899.93-fold), and some populations in Anhui, Jiangsu, Shanghai, and the northern rice regions were susceptible or had a low level of resistance to triazophos (RR = 1.00-10.69). Results also showed that most field populations were susceptible to fipronil (RR < 3), but the populations from Ruian and Cangnan, Zhejiang, in 2006 showed moderate levels of resistance to fipronil (RR = 20.99-25.35). All 11 field populations collected in 2002-2006 were susceptible to abamectin (RR < 5). The tolerance levels in the rice stem borer exhibited an increasing trend (or with fluctuation) over a 5-yr period for different insecticides, and they reached a maximal level in 2006 for all four insecticides. Analysis of regional resistance ratios indicated that the history and intensity of insecticide application are the major driving forces for the resistance evolution in C. suppressalis. Strategic development of insecticide resistance management also is proposed.
18233537	Realistic electronic-structure calculations for correlated Mott insulators are notoriously difficult. Here we present an ab initio multiconfiguration scheme that adequately describes strong correlation effects involving Cu 3d and O 2p electrons in layered cuprates. In particular, the O 2p states giving rise to the Zhang-Rice band are explicitly considered. Renormalization effects due to nonlocal spin interactions are also treated consistently. We show that the dispersion of the lowest band observed in photoemission is reproduced with quantitative accuracy. Additionally, the evolution of the Fermi surface with doping follows directly from our ab initio data. Our results thus open a new avenue for the first-principles investigation of the electronic structure of correlated Mott insulators.
18234080	Musa species (Zingiberaceae, Zingiberales) including bananas and plantains are collectively the fourth most important crop in developing countries. Knowledge concerning Musa genome structure and the origin of distinct cultivars has greatly increased over the last few years. Until now, however, no large-scale analyses of Musa genomic sequence have been conducted. This study compares genomic sequence in two Musa species with orthologous regions in the rice genome. We produced 1.4 Mb of Musa sequence from 13 BAC clones, annotated and analyzed them along with 4 previously sequenced BACs. The 443 predicted genes revealed that Zingiberales genes share GC content and distribution characteristics with eudicot and Poaceae genomes. Comparison with rice revealed microsynteny regions that have persisted since the divergence of the Commelinid orders Poales and Zingiberales at least 117 Mya. The previously hypothesized large-scale duplication event in the common ancestor of major cereal lineages within the Poaceae was verified. The divergence time distributions for Musa-Zingiber (Zingiberaceae, Zingiberales) orthologs and paralogs provide strong evidence for a large-scale duplication event in the Musa lineage after its divergence from the Zingiberaceae approximately 61 Mya. Comparisons of genomic regions from M. acuminata and M. balbisiana revealed highly conserved genome structure, and indicated that these genomes diverged circa 4.6 Mya. These results point to the utility of comparative analyses between distantly-related monocot species such as rice and Musa for improving our understanding of monocot genome evolution. Sequencing the genome of M. acuminata would provide a strong foundation for comparative genomics in the monocots. In addition a genome sequence would aid genomic and genetic analyses of cultivated Musa polyploid genotypes in research aimed at localizing and cloning genes controlling important agronomic traits for breeding purposes.
18234103	Many commercial banana varieties lack sources of resistance to pests and diseases, as a consequence of sterility and narrow genetic background. Fertile wild relatives, by contrast, possess greater variability and represent potential sources of disease resistance genes (R-genes). The largest known family of plant R-genes encode proteins with nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and C-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domains. Conserved motifs in such genes in diverse plant species offer a means for isolation of candidate genes in banana which may be involved in plant defence. A computational strategy was developed for unbiased conserved motif discovery in NBS and LRR domains in R-genes and homologues in monocotyledonous plant species. Degenerate PCR primers targeting conserved motifs were tested on the wild cultivar Musa acuminata subsp. burmannicoides, var. Calcutta 4, which is resistant to a number of fungal pathogens and nematodes. One hundred and seventy four resistance gene analogs (RGAs) were amplified and assembled into 52 contiguous sequences. Motifs present were typical of the non-TIR NBS-LRR RGA subfamily. A phylogenetic analysis of deduced amino-acid sequences for 33 RGAs with contiguous open reading frames (ORFs), together with RGAs from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, grouped most Musa RGAs within monocotyledon-specific clades. RFLP-RGA markers were developed, with 12 displaying distinct polymorphisms in parentals and F1 progeny of a diploid M. acuminata mapping population. Eighty eight BAC clones were identified in M. acuminata Calcutta 4, M. acuminata Grande Naine, and M. balbisiana Pisang Klutuk Wulung BAC libraries when hybridized to two RGA probes. Multiple copy RGAs were common within BAC clones, potentially representing variation reservoirs for evolution of new R-gene specificities. This is the first large scale analysis of NBS-LRR RGAs in M. acuminata Calcutta 4. Contig sequences were deposited in GenBank and assigned numbers ER935972 - ER936023. RGA sequences and isolated BACs are a valuable resource for R-gene discovery, and in future applications will provide insight into the organization and evolution of NBS-LRR R-genes in the Musa A and B genome. The developed RFLP-RGA markers are applicable for genetic map development and marker assisted selection for defined traits such as pest and disease resistance.
18234709	In recent years, several papers have reported that a special type of alternative splicing (AS) event occurs at the tandem 3' splice site, termed the "NAGNAG acceptor." This type of AS event (termed AS-NAGNAG) is well studied in both human and mouse. To illustrate the significance of AS-NAGNAG events, we focused on their occurrence in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice). Our study is the first genome-wide approach examining AS-NAGNAG events in land plants. Based on transcripts and genomic sequences, we found 321 and 372 AS-NAGNAG events in Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. These events were significantly enriched in genes encoding DNA-binding proteins, and more than half of all AS-NAGNAG events affected polar amino acid residues. The observed properties of AS-NAGNAG events in plants were similar to those seen in mammals. These results showed that AS-NAGNAG events may provide a mechanism for fine-tuning of DNA-binding proteins in both mammals and land plants. We found 7 gene groups of AS-NAGNAG events that were conserved between Arabidopsis and rice, including 2 groups for RNA-binding proteins. Conservation of the events for RNA-binding proteins is a property also seen in mammals. Furthermore, we found 23 gene groups containing AS-NAGNAG events that occurred in noncorresponding introns of homologous genes. They included 5 groups of DNA-binding proteins, whose number was larger than expected. We think there is a bias with which AS-NAGNAG events are fixed in genes for DNA-binding proteins. Our analysis showed that AS-NAGNAG events found in land plants share similar properties with those in mammals. Based on our results, we propose that AS-NAGNAG events are likely to be a common mechanism in the fine-tuning of protein functions, especially DNA/RNA-binding proteins, in both mammals and plants. Their role might contribute to the construction of complicated transcriptomes and proteomes in the evolutionary history of mammals and land plants.
18235036	The cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) is a major type of DNA damage induced by ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation. CPD photolyase, which absorbs blue/UVA light as an energy source to monomerize dimers, is a crucial factor for determining the sensitivity of rice (Oryza sativa) to UVB radiation. Here, we purified native class II CPD photolyase from rice leaves. As the final purification step, CPD photolyase was bound to CPD-containing DNA conjugated to magnetic beads and then released by blue-light irradiation. The final purified fraction contained 54- and 56-kD proteins, whereas rice CPD photolyase expressed from Escherichia coli was a single 55-kD protein. Western-blot analysis using anti-rice CPD photolyase antiserum suggested that both the 54- and 56-kD proteins were the CPD photolyase. Treatment with protein phosphatase revealed that the 56-kD native rice CPD photolyase was phosphorylated, whereas the E. coli-expressed rice CPD photolyase was not. The purified native rice CPD photolyase also had significantly higher CPD photorepair activity than the E. coli-expressed CPD photolyase. According to the absorption, emission, and excitation spectra, the purified native rice CPD photolyase possesses both a pterin-like chromophore and an FAD chromophore. The binding activity of the native rice CPD photolyase to thymine dimers was higher than that of the E. coli-expressed CPD photolyase. These results suggest that the structure of the native rice CPD photolyase differs significantly from that of the E. coli-expressed rice CPD photolyase, and the structural modification of the native CPD photolyase leads to higher activity in rice.
1823507
18236009	The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) is involved in the adaptive stress response and regulates expression of many stress-responsive genes, including some transcriptional factors. A bZIP transcription factor, OsABI5, was isolated from the panicle of Oryza sativa L. Expression of the OsABI5 gene was induced by abscisic acid (ABA) and high salinity, and down-regulated by drought and cold (4 degrees C) in seedlings. The OsABI5 protein was localized in the nucleus and has trans-activation activity. The N-terminal of the protein is necessary for its activity. OsABI5 could bind to a G-box element and trans-activate reporter gene expression. Complementation analysis revealed that the expression of OsABI5 driven by the 35S promoter could rescue ABA-insensitivity of abi5-1 during seed germination and result in hypersensitivity to ABA. Over-expression of OsABI5 in rice conferred high sensitivity to salt stress. Repression of OsABI5 promoted stress tolerance and resulted in low fertility of rice. These results suggested that OsABI5 could regulate the adaptive stress response and plant fertility of rice as a transcription factor.
18236025	Computer simulations are useful tools to optimize marker-assisted breeding programs. The objective of our study was to investigate the closeness of computer simulations of the recurrent parent genome recovery with experimental data obtained in two marker-assisted backcrossing programs in rice (Orzya sativa L.). We simulated the breeding programs as they were practically carried out. In the simulations we estimated the frequency distributions of the recurrent parent genome proportion in the backcross populations. The simulated distributions were in good agreement with those obtained practically. The simulation results were also observed to be robust with respect to the choice of the mapping function and the accuracy of the linkage map. We conclude that computer simulations are a useful tool for pre-experiment estimation of selection response in marker-assisted backcrossing.
18236078	Introns play a very important role in regulating gene expression in eukaryotes. In plants, many introns enhance gene expression, and the effect of intron-mediated enhancement (IME) of gene expression is reportedly often more profound in monocots than in dicots. To further gain insight of IME in monocot plants, we quantitatively dissected the effect of the 5' UTR intron of the rice rubi3 gene at various gene expression levels in stably transformed suspension cell lines. The intron enhanced the GUS reporter gene activity in these lines by about 29-fold. Nuclear run-on experiments demonstrated a nearly twofold enhancement by the 5' UTR intron at the transcriptional level. RNA analysis by RealTime quantitative RT-PCR assays indicated the intron enhanced the steady state RNA level of the GUS reporter gene by nearly 20-fold, implying a strong role of the intron in RNA processing and/or export. The results also implicated a moderate role of the intron in enhancement at the translational level (approximately 45%). Moreover, results from a transient assay experiment using a shortened exon 1 sequence revealed an important role of exon 1 of rubi3 in gene expression. It may also hint a divergence in IME mechanisms between plant and animal cells. These results demonstrated transcriptional enhancement by a plant intron, but suggested that post-transcriptional event(s) be the major source of IME.
18236175	Regions flanking the translation initiation site (TIS) are thought to play a crucial role in translation efficiency of mRNAs, but their exact sequence and evolution in eukaryotes are still a matter of debate. We investigated the context sequences in 20 nucleotides around the TIS in multi-cellular eukaryotes, with a focus on two model plants and a comparison to human. We identified consensus sequences aaaaaaa(A/G)(A/C)aAUGGcgaataata and ggcggc(g/c)(A/G)(A/C)(G/C)AUGGCggcggcgg for Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, respectively. We observe strongly conserved G at position +4 and A or C at position -2; however, the exact nucleotide frequencies vary between the three organisms even at these conserved positions. The frequency of pyrimidines, which are considered sub optimum at position -3, is higher in both plants than in human. Arabidopsis is GC-depleted (AU-enriched) compared to both rice and human, and the enrichment is slightly stronger upstream than downstream of AUG. While both plants are similar though not identical in their variation of nucleotide frequencies, rice and human are more similar to each other than Arabidopsis and human. All three organisms display clear periodicity in A + G and C + U content when analyzing normalized frequencies. These findings suggest that, besides few highly conserved positions, overall structure of the context sequence plays a larger role in TIS recognition than the actual nucleotide frequencies.
18237645	Amino acid sequences for more than 60 plant hemoglobins (Hbs) are deposited in databases, but the tertiary structure of only 4 plant Hbs have been reported; thus, the gap between the reported sequences and structures of plant Hbs is large. Elucidating the structure of plant Hbs is essential to fully understanding the function of these proteins in plant cells. Determining the actual protein structure by experimental methods (i.e., by X-ray crystallography) requires considerable protein material and is expensive; thus, this type of work is limited to few laboratories around the world. In silico (computer) methods to predict the tertiary structure of proteins from amino acid sequences have been implemented and are helping reduce the sequence-structure gap. Thus, in silico methods are useful tools for predicting the tertiary structure of several plant Hbs from amino acid sequences deposited in databases. In this chapter, we describe a method for predicting and analyzing the structure of a rice Hb2 from the template structure of native rice Hb1. This method is based on a comparative modeling method that uses programs from the SWISS-MODEL server.
18237894	In this paper, we consider the problem of lossless compression of video by taking into account temporal information. Video lossless compression is an interesting possibility in the line of production and contribution. We propose a compression technique which is based on motion compensation, optimal three-dimensional (3-D) linear prediction and context based Golomb-Rice entropy coding. The proposed technique is compared with 3-D extensions of the JPEG-LS standard for still image compression. A compression gain of about 0.8 bit/pel with respect to static JPEG-LS, applied on a frame-by-frame basis, is achievable at a reasonable computational complexity.
18239289	Recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) has been produced in several different cell types, and has different properties depending on the production process used. There has been no report of glycosylation ratio or of the role of glycans for plant cells-derived rhGM-CSF. We investigated the terminal sialylation of rhGM-CSF produced in rice cells (rrhGM-CSF) using lectins. Glycosylation ratios of rrhGM-CSF and yeast-derived rhGM-CSF (yrhGM-CSF) were evaluated by chemical deglycosylation. After intravenous administration to rats, the clearance rates of rrhGM-CSF and yrhGM-CSF as well as deglycosylated forms of them were evaluated. In vitro bioactivities of rrhGM-CSF and yrhGM-CSF were measured in dose- and time-dependent manners. Although rrhGM-CSF does not have terminal sialic acids, the glycosylation ratio was two-fold higher than that of yrhGM-CSF, and rrhGM-CSF sustained longer than yrhGM-CSF in the blood circulation. Moreover, yrhGM-CSF and rrhGM-CSF have almost same bioactivity via dose- and time-dependent manners. Deglycosylated rrhGM-CSF was cleared faster than native forms, while deglycosylated yrhGM-CSF and yrhGM-CSF were similarly cleared in blood circulation. These results suggest that the glycans on rrhGM-CSF are superior to the glycans on yrhGM-CSF in terms of in vivo stability.
18240512	Water quality of aquatic habitats is an important determinant of female mosquito oviposition and successful larval development. This study examined the influence of environmental covariates on Anopheles arabiensis mosquito abundance in the Mwea Irrigation Scheme, Central Province of Kenya, prior to implementation of a malaria vector control program. Experimental rice plots were used to examine the environmental covariates responsible for regulating abundance and diversity of the aquatic stages of malaria vectors. Mosquito larval sampling and water quality analysis were done weekly from the flooding stage to the rice maturation stage. Sampling for mosquito larvae was conducted using standard dipping technique. During each larval collection, environmental covariates such as pH, temperature, conductivity, salinity, dissolved oxygen, water depth, and rice stage were measured. Anopheles arabiensis larval density was highest between 1 wk before transplanting and 4 wk after transplanting with peaks at weeks 0, 3, and 8. The fluctuation in values of the various environmental covariates showed characteristic patterns in different rice growth phases depending on the changes taking place due to the agronomic practices. Using a backward linear regression model, the factors that were found to be associated with abundance of An. arabiensis larvae at any of the rice growing phases included the following: dissolved oxygen, pH, turbidity, water depth, rice height, number of rice tillers, salinity, conductivity, and temperature. The environmental covariates associated with abundance of An. arabiensis were associated with early vegetative stage of the rice growth. For effective control of developmental stages of mosquito larvae, the application of larvicides should be done at the vegetative stage and the larvicides should persist until the beginning of the reproductive stage of the rice.
18240684	Borullus, the most centrally situated of the Nile Delta lakes, probably evolved around the eighth century AD from a preexisting salt marsh by fluviatile deposition of sand dunes north of the lake and subsidence of the preexisting tidal swamp behind this barrier. It was flooded yearly (September-December) by the Sebennytic branch of the Nile, and evacuated water through an exit, Bughaz. At low river levels, this process reversed and Bughaz functioned as a marine inlet. Because of this switch, its fauna and flora contained a mix of marine, freshwater, and brackish-water species. Around the mid-nineteenth century, damming of the Nile began, culminating with the high Aswan Dam (1964) that brought the yearly flood fully under control. As a result, a steady flow of Nile water, used for irrigated delta agriculture, began to drain to the lake and became a constant evacuator to the Mediterranean. It turned almost fresh, and its fishery, formerly marine and mullet-based, became cichlid-catfish based. However, rice and other new delta crops caused huge amounts of nutrients to wash down the drains, and currently the lake is eutrophied and only resists hypertrophication because of the low residence time of its water. Finally, the damming of the Nile terminated the influx to the delta of a yearly sediment layer, but subsidence and coastal erosion continue and are now consuming the sand bar that separates the lake from the sea.
18241352	Tetraspanins are small membrane proteins that belong to a superfamily encompassing 33 members in human and mouse. These proteins act as organizers of membrane-signalling complexes. So far only two tetraspanin families have been identified in fungi. These are Pls1, which is required for pathogenicity of the plant pathogenic ascomycetes, Magnaporthe grisea, Botrytis cinerea and Colletotrichum lindemuthianum, and Tsp2, whose function is unknown. In this report, we describe a third family of tetraspanins (Tsp3) and a new family of tetraspanin-like proteins (Tpl1) in fungi. We also describe expression of some of these genes in M. grisea and a basidiomycete, Laccaria bicolor, and also their functional analysis in M. grisea. The exhaustive search for tetraspanins in fungal genomes reveals that higher fungi (basidiomycetes and ascomycetes) contain three families of tetraspanins (Pls1, Tsp2 and Tsp3) with different distribution amongst phyla. Pls1 is found in ascomycetes and basidiomycetes, whereas Tsp2 is restricted to basidiomycetes and Tsp3 to ascomycetes. A unique copy of each of PLS1 and TSP3 was found in ascomycetes in contrast to TSP2, which has several paralogs in the basidiomycetes, Coprinus cinereus and Laccaria bicolor. A tetraspanin-like family (Tpl1) was also identified in ascomycetes. Transcriptional analyses in various tissues of L. bicolor and M. grisea showed that PLS1 and TSP2 are expressed in all tissues in L. bicolor and that TSP3 and TPL1 are overexpressed in the sexual fruiting bodies (perithecia) and mycelia of M. grisea, suggesting that these genes are not pseudogenes. Phenotypic analysis of gene replacementmutants Deltatsp3 and Deltatpl1 of M. grisea revealed a reduction of the pathogenicity only on rice, in contrast to Deltapls1 mutants, which are completely non-pathogenic on barley and rice. A new tetraspanin family (Tsp3) and a tetraspanin-like protein family (Tpl1) have been identified in fungi. Functional analysis by gene replacement showed that these proteins, as well as Pls1, are involved in the infection process of the plant pathogenic fungus M. grisea. The next challenge will be to decipher the role(s) of tetraspanins in a range of symbiotic, saprophytic and human pathogenic fungi.
1824360	Ethofenprox (Trebon), a new compound, was evaluated against three species of mosquito larvae in the laboratory. Larval LC50 values revealed that Culex quinquefasciatus was more susceptible than Ae. aegypti and An. stephensi. The residual toxicity of Trebon was studied against culicine larvae in the rice agroecosystem at rates ranging from 0.05 to 0.2 kg ai/ha. Effective control was obtained for even beyond five weeks at the larvicidal rate of 0.2 kg ai/ha. Trebon is not safe to nontarget aquatic organisms.
18244911	A 4,672 bp DNA sequence including the whole coding region and partial non-coding region of rice blast resistance gene Pi-ta+ has been cloned from Jinghong erect type of common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff) in Yunnan by polymerase chain reaction method. The coding region shares 99.86% and 98.78% identity with the corresponding regions of the reported cultivated rice Yashiro-mochi and Yuanjiang type of common wild rice respectively. There are 4 nucleotides difference in the coding region and 6 in intron of the cloned Pi-ta+ gene,compared with Pi-ta from Yashiro-mochi. Pi-ta+ gene in Jinghong erect type of common wild rice has been proved to be a rare existing Pi-ta+ allele, because there was a alanine rather than a serine at the position 918 within the predicted amino acid sequence of PITA. Pi-ta+ allele can cause disease resistance response to rice blast pathogens in plant cells. Differences in DNA sequence, deduced amino acid sequence and antibacterial spectrum may make the Pi-ta+ allele new resistant characteristics. Finding and cloning of Pi-ta+ allele from Jinghong erect type of common wild rice in Yunnan provides a basement for further utilization of the wild rice resources.
18244928	The amylose content of the mutant of autotetraploid indica rice D4063-1 is 5.23% anout, which was half of its origin diploid rice Minghui 63. The whole sequence of Waxy gene of D4063-1 was amplified and sequenced. A base was absent on the Wx of D4063-1 in exon sequence, which resulted in frameshift mutation and terminating codon occurred ahead in the 9 exon. The mutation of Wx also led to the change of some mutation in the 9 exon and terminating codon occurred early. The change of Wx also led to changes of the sites of common restriction endonuclease. The results showed that D4063-1 added two sph sites compared to indica and japonica rice; Compared to japonica rice, D4063-1decreased six Acc sites, and added 4 Xba, a Pst and a Sal restriction sites. Phylogenic analysis showed that the DNA sequence of Waxy gene of D4063-1 was closer to indica rice. We supposed that the Waxy gene of D4063-1 originated from genotype of Wxa. According to the differences of Wx in D4063-1, we deduced the absent base led to RNA splicing obstacle, which was the main cause of low amylose content and it might be related to the soft rice phenotype. Based on analysis of Wx of D4063-1, indica and japonica and according to the special sites of the three species, primers as markers-AUT4063-I were designed to distinguish D4063-1 from other rice. Combining with primer pair F5, dominant and codominant ways were established for discriminating them, and rapid and correct identification of D4063-1 from other rice could be done.
18244929	Relative germination percentage, relative germination rate, and relative germination index were studied using P1, P2, and 350 lines of a RIL population from the japonica rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica) cross of Bing 8979/C Bao. By means of mixed major gene plus polygene inheritance models, genetic analysis showed that relative germination percentage, relative germination rate, and relative germination index were controlled by two major genes plus polygenes. Both major genes and polygenes showed additive-epistatic effects. The additive effects were larger than epistatic effects in the two major genes. The heritability of major genes was larger than that of polygenes in all the three traits, indicating that the three traits investigated in the present study were mainly governed by major genes.
18244930	Intron length polymorphism (ILP) is a new type of PCR-based molecular markers with many advantages. We had previously developed 172 ILP markers in rice using the published genome sequence data of indica cultivar 93-11 and ja-ponica cultivar Nipponbare. In order to examine the reliability and the applicability of these ILP markers to genetic map-ping, we constructed a rice genetic map consisting of 172 ILP and 13 SSR markers with a total length of 1 905.7 cM using a BC1F1 (Nipponbare/93-11//Nipponbare) population. Comparison showed that the order of the markers in this map was ex-actly the same as their physical order, verifying the feasibility and efficiency of using ILP markers for genetic mapping. We also investigated the phenomenon of marker segregation distortion and found a region of serious segregation distortion in the short arm of chromosome 6.
18245456	The brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stl; BPH) is a specialist herbivore on rice (Oryza sativa) that ingests phloem sap from the plant through its stylet mouthparts. Electronic penetration graphs revealed that BPH insects spent more time wandering over plants carrying the resistance genes Bph14 and Bph15, but less time ingesting phloem than they did on susceptible plants. They also showed that their feeding was frequently interrupted. Tests with [(14)C]sucrose showed that insects ingested much less phloem sap from the resistant than the susceptible plants. BPH feeding up-regulated callose synthase genes and induced callose deposition in the sieve tubes at the point where the stylet was inserted. The compact callose remained intact in the resistant plants, but genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanases were activated, causing unplugging of the sieve tube occlusions in susceptible plants. Continuing ingestion led to a remarkable reduction in the susceptible plants' sucrose content and activation of the RAmy3D gene, leading to starch hydrolysis and ultimately carbohydrate deprivation in the plants. Our results demonstrate that BPH feeding induces the deposition of callose on sieve plates in rice and that this is an important defense mechanism that prevents insects from ingesting phloem sap. In response, however, the BPH can unplug sieve tube occlusions by activating beta-1,3-glucanase genes in rice plants.
18246312	Effects of two kinds of iron fertilizer, FeSO4 and EDTA.Na2Fe were studied on cadmium accumulation in rice plants with two rice genotypes, Zhongzao 22 and Zhongjiazao 02, with soil culture systems. The results showed that application of iron fertilizers could hardly make adverse effects on plant growth and rice grain yield. Soil application of EDTA.Na2Fe significantly reduced the Cd accumulation in rice roots, shoots and rice grain. Cd concentration in white rice of both rice genotypes in the treatment of soil application of EDTA.Na2Fe was much lower than 0.2 mg/kg, the maximal Cd permission concentration in cereal crop foods in State standard. However, soil application of FeSO4 or foliar application of FeSO4 or EDTA.Na2Fe resulted in the significant increase of Cd accumulation in rice plants including rice grain compared with the control. The results also showed iron fertilizers increased the concentration of iron, copper and manganese element in rice grain and also affected zinc concentration in plants. It may be a new promising way to regulate Cd accumulation in rice grain in rice production through soil application of EDTA.Na2Fe fertilizers to maintain higher content of available iron and ferrous iron in soils.
18246316	In rice, the characterization of OsEBP-89 is inducible by various stress-or hormone-stimuli, including ethylene, abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonate acid (JA), drought and cold. Here, we report the investigation of essential DNA region within OsEBP-89 promoter for methyl jasmonic acid (MeJA) induction. PLACE analysis indicates that this promoter sequence contains multiple potential elements in response to various stimuli. First, we fused this promoter with GUS gene and analyzed its expression under MeJA treatment through Agrobacterium infiltration mediating transient expression in tobacco leaves. Our results revealed that this chimeric gene could be inducible by MeJA in tobacco leaves. To further determine the crucial sequences responsible for MeJA induction, we generated a series of deletion promoters which were fused with GUS reporter gene respectively. The results of transient expression of GUS gene driven by these mutant promoters show that the essential region for MeJA induction is positioned in the region between -1200 and -800 in OsEBP-89 promoter containing a G-box (-1127), which is distinct from the essential region containing ERE (-562) for ACC induction. In all, our finding is helpful in understanding the molecular mechanism of OsEBP-89 expression under different stimuli.
18246713	The potential of Leersia oryzoides (rice-cut grass) to remediate arsenic-contaminated soil was studied in greenhouse pot experiments. Leersia oryzoides grown in soil amended with arsenic to a concentration of 110 mg kg(-1), extracted up to 305 mg kg(-1) and 272 mg kg(-1) arsenic into its shoots and roots, respectively, giving a shoot:root quotient of 1.12 and phytoextraction coefficients up to 2.8. Plants in the arsenic-amended soil showed visible signs of stress in the first 8 wk of growth, but then recovered. Based on the 132 plants that were grown in a surface area of approximately 180 cm2, the calculated total arsenic taken up by shoots is 120, 130, and 130 g ha(-1) at 6, 10, and 16 wk, respectively, suggesting that additional arsenic could be removed by periodic mowing over a growing season. Extraction with a mixture of nitric acid and hydrogen peroxide indicated that the available arsenic was constant after the first 6 wk. Uptake is comparable to that reported for duckweed (Lemna gibba L.) and overlaps the low end of the values reported for Chinese brake fern (Pteris Vittata L.)
18247030	Microbial pathogens secrete an array of cell wall-degrading enzymes to break down the structure of the host cell wall to facilitate colonization of the host tissue. To better understand their role in the pathogenesis, a putative endoglucanase from Magnaporthe grisea was characterized in this paper. SignalP-3.0 analysis indicates that the protein encoded by gene MGG_02532.5 in M. grisea (named MgEGL1 for M. grisea endoglucanase 1) contains a secretory signal peptide. Multiple alignment shows that MgEGL1 has high level of homology to endoglucanases (EC 3.1.1.4) from Aspergillus nidulans and Trichoderma reesei. The three proteins share a conserved catalytic domain, but only the one from T. reesei contains a cellulose binding module. MgEGL1 was constitutively expressed with the highest level in mycelia and the lowest in conidia. Interestingly, the MgEGL1 RNA could be alternatively processed when cultured in vitro and after infection of rice. Expression analysis confirmed that the MgEGL1 is a secreted protein. Its endoglucanase activity was assayed by Congo red plates, and further confirmed by the dinitrosalicylic acid method. The finding in this paper will provide the basis for further determination of the biochemical properties of the endoglucanase protein and its relevant function in fungal pathogenesis.
18247056	Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins have been used as markers of plant defense responses, and are classified into 17 families. However, precise information on the majority members in specific PR families is still limited. We were interested in the individual characteristics of rice PR1 family genes, and selected 12 putatively active genes using rice genome databases for expressed genes. All were upregulated upon compatible and/or incompatible rice-blast fungus interactions; three were upregulated in the early infection period and four in the late infection period. Upon compatible rice-bacterial blight interaction, four genes were upregulated, six were not affected, and one was downregulated. These results are in striking contrast to those among 22 Arabidopsis PR1 genes where only one gene was pathogen-inducible. The responses of individual genes to salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, and ethylene induced defense signaling pathways in rice are likely to be different from those in dicot plants. Transcript levels in healthy leaves, roots, and flowers varied according to each gene. Analysis of the partially overlapping expression patterns of rice PR1 genes in healthy tissues and in response to pathogens and other stresses would be useful to understand their possible functions and for use as characteristic markers for defense-related studies in rice.
18247537	Spherosomes were elucidated to be a key for removal of chloroform by rice bran (Adachi, A.; Okano, T. Chemosphere 2002, 46, 87-92). On the basis of the above findings, a large amount of spherosomes was separated from rice bran using an industrial scale machine in order to investigate direct removal of chloroform by spherosome from tap water. The efficiency of removal of chloroform from water by rice bran spherosome was evaluated. Equilibrium adsorption isotherms conformed to the Freundlich isotherm (log-log linear). Adsorption of this compound by spherosome was observed in the pH range of 1-12. At equilibrium, the adsorption efficiency of spherosome for chloroform was higher than that of rice bran or activated carbon in the high chloroform concentration range (concentration>0.1 g/L). In the low chloroform concentration range (concentration<0.08 g/L), activated carbon adsorbs more chloroform than spherosome, but the adsorbed amount by spherosome is of the same order as that by activated carbon, which is several orders higher than that by rice bran. Chloroform was removed from tap water with an average removal efficiency of 90% after 90 min when spherosome (2 g/L) was added to tap water containing 0.105 mg/L of chloroform.
18248058	We evaluated a scanning adiabatic resistive calorimeter (SARC) developed to measure the specific enthalpy of viscous and gel-type materials. The sample is heated employing the Joule effect. The cell is constituted by a cylindrical jacket and two pistons, and the sample is contained inside the jacket between the two pistons. The upper piston can slide to allow for thermal expansion and to keep the pressure constant. The pistons also function as electrodes for the sample. While the sample is heated through the Joule effect, the electrodes and the jacket are independently heated to the same temperature of the sample using automatic control. This minimizes the heat transport between the sample and its surroundings. The energy to the sample is supplied by applying to the electrodes an ac voltage in the kilohertz range, establishing a current in the sample and inducing electric dissipation. This energy can be measured with enough exactitude to determine the heat capacity. This apparatus also allows for the quantification of the thermal conductivity by reproducing the evolution of the temperature as heat is introduced only to one of the pistons. To this end, the system was modeled using finite element calculations. This dual capability proved to be very valuable for correction in the determination of the specific enthalpy. The performance of the SARC was evaluated by comparing the heat capacity results to those obtained by differential scanning calorimetry measurements using a commercial apparatus. The analyzed samples were zeolite, bauxite, hematite, bentonite, rice flour, corn flour, and potato starch.
18248097	Correct daily phasing of transcription confers an adaptive advantage to almost all organisms, including higher plants. In this study, we describe a hypothesis-driven network discovery pipeline that identifies biologically relevant patterns in genome-scale data. To demonstrate its utility, we analyzed a comprehensive matrix of time courses interrogating the nuclear transcriptome of Arabidopsis thaliana plants grown under different thermocycles, photocycles, and circadian conditions. We show that 89% of Arabidopsis transcripts cycle in at least one condition and that most genes have peak expression at a particular time of day, which shifts depending on the environment. Thermocycles alone can drive at least half of all transcripts critical for synchronizing internal processes such as cell cycle and protein synthesis. We identified at least three distinct transcription modules controlling phase-specific expression, including a new midnight specific module, PBX/TBX/SBX. We validated the network discovery pipeline, as well as the midnight specific module, by demonstrating that the PBX element was sufficient to drive diurnal and circadian condition-dependent expression. Moreover, we show that the three transcription modules are conserved across Arabidopsis, poplar, and rice. These results confirm the complex interplay between thermocycles, photocycles, and the circadian clock on the daily transcription program, and provide a comprehensive view of the conserved genomic targets for a transcriptional network key to successful adaptation.
18248586	Complete submergence of plants prevents direct O(2) and CO(2) exchange with air. Underwater photosynthesis can result in marked diurnal changes in O(2) supply to submerged plants. Dynamics in pO(2) had not been measured directly for submerged rice (Oryza sativa), but in an earlier study, radial O(2) loss from roots showed an initial peak following shoot illumination. O(2) dynamics in shoots and roots of submerged rice were monitored during light and dark periods, using O(2) microelectrodes. Tissue sugar concentrations were also measured. On illumination of shoots of submerged rice, pO(2) increased rapidly and then declined slightly to a new quasi-steady state. An initial peak was evident first in the shoots and then in the roots, and was still observed when 20 mol m(-3) glucose was added to the medium to ensure substrate supply in roots. At the new quasi-steady state following illumination, sheath pO(2) was one order of magnitude higher than in darkness, enhancing also pO(2) in roots. The initial peak in pO(2) following illumination of submerged rice was likely to result from high initial rates of net photosynthesis, fuelled by CO(2) accumulated during the dark period. Nevertheless, since sugars decline with time in submerged rice, substrate limitation of respiration could also contribute to morning peaks in pO(2) after longer periods of submergence.
18248596	Hybrids lose heterotic yield advantage when multiplied sexually via meiosis. A potential alternative breeding system for hybrids is apospory, where female gametes develop without meiosis. Common among grasses, apospory begins in the nucellus, where aposporous initials (AIs) appear near the sexual megaspore mother cell (MeMC). The cellular origin of AIs is obscure, but one possibility, suggested by the mac1 and msp1 mutants of maize and rice, is that AIs are apomeiotic derivatives of the additional MeMCs that appear when genetic control over sporocyte numbers is relaxed. MULTIPLE SPOROCYTES1 (MSP1) encodes a leucine-rich-repeat receptor kinase, which is orthologous to EXS/EMS1 in Arabidopsis. Like mac1 and msp1, exs/ems1 mutants produce extra sporocytes in the anther instead of a tapetum, causing male sterility. This phenotype is copied in mutants of TAPETUM DETERMINANT1 (TPD1), which encodes a small protein hypothesized to be an extracellular ligand of EXS/EMS1. Here we show that rice contains two TPD1-like genes, OsTDL1A and OsTDL1B. Both are co-expressed with MSP1 in anthers during meiosis, but only OsTDL1A and MSP1 are co-expressed in the ovule. OsTDL1A binds to the leucine-rich-repeat domain of MSP1 in yeast two-hybrid assays and bimolecular fluorescence complementation in onion cells; OsTDL1B lacks this capacity. When driven by the maize Ubiquitin1 promoter, RNA interference against OsTDL1A phenocopies msp1 in the ovule but not in the anther. Thus, RNAi produces multiple MeMCs without causing male sterility. We conclude that OsTDL1A binds MSP1 in order to limit sporocyte numbers. OsTDL1A-RNAi lines may be suitable starting points for achieving synthetic apospory in rice.
18248674	Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) is an important crop economically and nutritionally, and is one of the most susceptible host crops to colonization of Aspergillus parasiticus and subsequent aflatoxin contamination. Knowledge from molecular genetic studies could help to devise strategies in alleviating this problem; however, few peanut DNA sequences are available in the public database. In order to understand the molecular basis of host resistance to aflatoxin contamination, a large-scale project was conducted to generate expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from developing seeds to identify resistance-related genes involved in defense response against Aspergillus infection and subsequent aflatoxin contamination. We constructed six different cDNA libraries derived from developing peanut seeds at three reproduction stages (R5, R6 and R7) from a resistant and a susceptible cultivated peanut genotypes, 'Tifrunner' (susceptible to Aspergillus infection with higher aflatoxin contamination and resistant to TSWV) and 'GT-C20' (resistant to Aspergillus with reduced aflatoxin contamination and susceptible to TSWV). The developing peanut seed tissues were challenged by A. parasiticus and drought stress in the field. A total of 24,192 randomly selected cDNA clones from six libraries were sequenced. After removing vector sequences and quality trimming, 21,777 high-quality EST sequences were generated. Sequence clustering and assembling resulted in 8,689 unique EST sequences with 1,741 tentative consensus EST sequences (TCs) and 6,948 singleton ESTs. Functional classification was performed according to MIPS functional catalogue criteria. The unique EST sequences were divided into twenty-two categories. A similarity search against the non-redundant protein database available from NCBI indicated that 84.78% of total ESTs showed significant similarity to known proteins, of which 165 genes had been previously reported in peanuts. There were differences in overall expression patterns in different libraries and genotypes. A number of sequences were expressed throughout all of the libraries, representing constitutive expressed sequences. In order to identify resistance-related genes with significantly differential expression, a statistical analysis to estimate the relative abundance (R) was used to compare the relative abundance of each gene transcripts in each cDNA library. Thirty six and forty seven unique EST sequences with threshold of R > 4 from libraries of 'GT-C20' and 'Tifrunner', respectively, were selected for examination of temporal gene expression patterns according to EST frequencies. Nine and eight resistance-related genes with significant up-regulation were obtained in 'GT-C20' and 'Tifrunner' libraries, respectively. Among them, three genes were common in both genotypes. Furthermore, a comparison of our EST sequences with other plant sequences in the TIGR Gene Indices libraries showed that the percentage of peanut EST matched to Arabidopsis thaliana, maize (Zea mays), Medicago truncatula, rapeseed (Brassica napus), rice (Oryza sativa), soybean (Glycine max) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) ESTs ranged from 33.84% to 79.46% with the sequence identity >/= 80%. These results revealed that peanut ESTs are more closely related to legume species than to cereal crops, and more homologous to dicot than to monocot plant species. The developed ESTs can be used to discover novel sequences or genes, to identify resistance-related genes and to detect the differences among alleles or markers between these resistant and susceptible peanut genotypes. Additionally, this large collection of cultivated peanut EST sequences will make it possible to construct microarrays for gene expression studies and for further characterization of host resistance mechanisms. It will be a valuable genomic resource for the peanut community. The 21,777 ESTs have been deposited to the NCBI GenBank database with accession numbers ES702769 to ES724546.
18251049
18251280	To explore the application value of correspondence analysis in ecological study. We adopted correspondence analysis method to analyze the relationship between the amount of food intake in some cities in China and the male gastric carcinoma mortality. According to scatter plots of row and column points, there were regional differences among the male gastric carcinoma mortality in different cities of China. The scatter plot of row and column points indicated directly that there were regional differences among the male gastric carcinoma mortality in different cities of China. Males from the Southern part of the country ate more rice and salt, less wheaten food and fewer light vegetables than those from the northern parts, suggesting that there might be some carcinogenic factors in some food stuff involved.
18251414	Dwyer medium is the most frequently employed culture medium for Histomonas meleagridis. Both for subculturing and for resuscitation of H. meleagridis from storage in liquid nitrogen, modified Dwyer medium with an increased rice powder concentration (0.8%) and no chicken embryo extract proved superior to Dwyer standard medium, with threefold (10(6.3) vs. 10(5.8) histomonads/ml) to 10-fold (10(6.7) vs. 10(5.8) histomonads/ml) higher concentrations of parasites after resuscitation or subculturing, respectively.
18251852	The mechanisms of photoprotection of photosynthesis and dissipation of excitation energy in rice leaves in response to potassium (K) deficiency were investigated. Net photosynthetic rate and the activity of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase decreased under K deficiency. Compared with the control, non-photochemical quenching of Chl fluorescence increased in K-deficient plant, whereas the efficiency of excitation transfer (F'(v)/F'(m)) and the photochemical quenching coefficient (q(P)) decreased. Thus, thermal dissipation of excitation energy increased as more excess electrons were accumulated in the photosynthetic chain. The electron transport rate through PSII (J(f)) was more sensitive to O2 concentration, and the fraction of electron transport rate required to sustain CO2 assimilation and photorespiration (J(g)/J(f)) was significantly decreased under K deficiency compared with the control. Furthermore, the alternative electron transport (J(a)/J(f)) was increased, indicating that a considerable amount of electrons had been transported to O2 during the water-water cycle in the K-deficient leaves. Although the fraction of electron transport to photorespiration (J(o)/J(f)) was also increased in the K-deficient leaves, it was less sensitive than that of the water-water cycle. With the generation of reactive oxygen species level, the activities of superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase, two of the key enzymes involved in scavenging of active oxygen species in the water-water cycle, also increased in K-deficient rice. Therefore, it is likely that a series of photoprotective mechanisms were initiated in rice plants in response to K deficiency and the water-water cycle might be critical for protecting photosynthetic apparatus under K deficiency in rice.
18251858	With the growing interest in the use of metabolomic technologies for a wide range of biological targets, food applications related to nutrition and quality are rapidly emerging. Metabolomics offers us the opportunity to gain deeper insights into, and have better control of, the fundamental biochemical basis of the things we eat. So doing will help us to design modified breeding programmes aimed at better quality produce; optimised food processing strategies and ultimately, improved (micro)nutrient bioavailability and bioefficacy. A better understanding of the pathways responsible for the biosynthesis of nutritionally relevant metabolites is key to gaining more effective control of the absence/level of presence of such components in our food. Applications of metabolomic technologies in both applied and fundamental science strategies are therefore growing rapidly in popularity. Currently, the world has two highly contrasting nutrition-related problems--over-consumption and under-nourishment. Dramatic increases in the occurrence of overweight individuals and obesity in developed countries are in staggering contrast to the still-familiar images of extreme malnutrition in many parts of the developing world. Both problems require a modified food supply, achieved through highly contrasting routes. For each, metabolomics has a future role to play and this review shall deal with this key dichotomy and illustrate where metabolomics may have a future part to play. In this short overview, attention is given to how the various technologies have already been exploited in a plant-based food context related to key issues such as biofortification, bioprotectants and the general link between food composition and human health. Research on key crops such as rice and tomato are used as illustration of potentially broader application across crop species. Although the focus is clearly on food supply, some attention is given to the complementary field of research, nutrigenomics, where similar technologies are being applied to understand nutrition better from the human side.
18251862	New metabolic profiling technologies provide data on a wider range of metabolites than traditional targeted approaches. Metabolomic technologies currently facilitate acquisition of multivariate metabolic data using diverse, mostly hyphenated, chromatographic detection systems, such as GC-MS or liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry, Fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy or NMR-based methods. Analysis of the resulting data can be performed through a combination of non-supervised and supervised statistical methods, such as independent component analysis and analysis of variance, respectively. These methods reduce the complex data sets to information, which is relevant for the discovery of metabolic markers or for hypothesis-driven, pathway-based analysis. Plant responses to salinity involve changes in the activity of genes and proteins, which invariably lead to changes in plant metabolism. Here, we highlight a selection of recent publications in the salt stress field, and use gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry profiles of polar fractions from the plant models, Arabidopsis thaliana, Lotus japonicus and Oryza sativa to demonstrate the power of metabolite profiling. We present evidence for conserved and divergent metabolic responses among these three species and conclude that a change in the balance between amino acids and organic acids may be a conserved metabolic response of plants to salt stress.
18251870	A greater understanding of the genetics of responses to water deficit/drought may be helpful in improving water-deficit resistance in the early stages of growth in rice. A recombinant inbred population derived from a cross between Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63 was grown in hydroponic culture to characterize the responses of seedlings to water deficit imposed by PEG 6000 and to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for seedling characteristics under both well-watered and water-deficit conditions. Generally, the two parents showed significant differences in plant height (PH), maximum root length (MRL), shoot fresh weight (SFW), root fresh weight (RFW), number of roots and root:shoot ratio based on fresh weight under both well-watered and water-deficit conditions. For two parents, PH and SFW were significantly inhibited under water deficit. However, the other four traits had larger values under water deficit. Among 26 and 34 QTLs detected for the six traits studied under the well-watered and water-deficit conditions, respectively, a total of 14 QTLs for SFW, PH, RFW and MRL (23% of total QTLs detected) were detected in similar or tight linkage regions in both conditions. Among 11 intervals on 7 chromosomes identified to harbor multiple QTLs, 8 intervals were found to affect related traits under the two water supply conditions and 3 intervals were observed to be water supply-specific regions and had effects only under well-watered conditions, suggesting that water supply-specific regions or QTLs may be closely associated with the responses of lines to water deficit in the study. Several regions for the traits studied were also found to affect the root-related traits in previous studies and might be used in marker-assisted selection for drought-resistant rice in breeding programs.
18251873	The relationship of zinc (Zn) efficiency in rice to differential tolerance of photosynthetic capacity and chloroplast function to low Zn stress was studied using Zn-efficient (IR8192) and Zn-inefficient (Erjiufeng) rice genotypes (Oryza sativa L.). Zinc deficiency caused extensive declines in leaf chlorophyll (Chl) content, ratios of chl a:b, Pn, Fv/Fm and Fv/Fo, indicating that the intrinsic quantum efficiency of the photosystem II (PSII) units was damaged. A greater decline was observed in the inefficient genotype (Erjiufeng) than the efficient genotype (IR8192). The 77 K chl fluorescence emission spectrum revealed that Zn deficiency blocked energy spillover from PSII to PSI and more excitation energy was distributed to PSII in IR8192 than Erjiufeng. The spectrum of Zn-deficient Erjiufeng was completely disordered, implying that the photosynthetic centers were seriously damaged. Electron microscopy showed that Zn deficiency caused a severe damage to the fine structure of chloroplasts, but IR8192 had a better preserved chloroplast ultrastructure as compared with Erjiufeng. These differences may result from the higher levels of the antioxidant enzyme activities and lower oxidant stress level in IR8192. These results indicate that Zn deficiency decreases leaf photosynthetic capacity primarily by reducing the number of PSII units per unit leaf area, and also reducing the photochemical capacity of the remaining PSII units. Therefore, the maintenance of more efficient photochemical capacity under low Zn stress is a key factor for the high Zn efficiency in rice, which may result from less antioxidant damage caused by low Zn to the chloroplast ultrastructure.
18251891	Metabolism of [carbonyl-14C]nicotinamide was surveyed in various plant materials including the model plants, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa and Lotus japonicus. In all plants studied, nicotinamide was used for the pyridine (nicotinamide adenine) nucleotide synthesis, probably after conversion to nicotinic acid. Radioactivity from [carbonyl-14C]nicotinamide was incorporated into trigonelline (1-N-methylnicotinic acid) and/or into nicotinic acid 1N-glucoside (Na-Glc). Trigonelline is formed mainly in leaves and cell cultures of O. sativa and L. japonicus and in seedlings of Trifolium incarnatum, Medicago sativa and Raphanus sativus. Trigonelline synthesis from nicotinamide is generally greater in leaves than in roots. Na-Glc was formed as the major nicotinic acid conjugate in A. thaliana and in tobacco Bright Yellow-2 cells. In seedlings of Chrysanthemum coronarium and Theobroma cacao, both trigonelline and Na-Glc were synthesized from [carbonyl-14C]nicotinamide. Trigonelline is accumulated in some seeds, mainly Leguminosae species. The pattern of formation of the nicotinic acid conjugates differs between species and organs.
18251929	Mybleu is a natural incomplete transcription factor of rice (Oryza sativa), consisting of a partial Myb repeat followed by a short leucine zipper. We previously showed its localization to the apical region of rice roots and coleoptiles. Specifically, in coleoptiles, Mybleu is expressed under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, whereas in roots, it is expressed only under aerobic conditions. Mybleu is able to dimerize with canonical leucine zippers and to activate transcription selectively. To investigate Mybleu function in vivo, we transformed Arabidopsis thaliana and evaluated several morphological, physiological and biochemical parameters. In agreement with a hypothesized role of Mybleu in cell elongation in the differentiation zone, we found that the constitutive expression of this transcription factor in Arabidopsis induced elongation in the primary roots and in the internodal region of the floral stem; we also observed a modification of the root apex morphology in transformed lines. Based on the high expression of Mybleu in anaerobic rice coleoptiles, we studied the role of this transcription factor in transgenic plants grown under low-oxygen conditions. We found that overexpression of this transcription factor increased tolerance to oxygen deficit. In transgenic plants, this effect may depend both on the maintenance of a higher metabolism during stress and on the higher expression levels of certain genes involved in the anaerobic response.
1825198	Entamoeba histolytica isolated from human can be associated with either symptomatic disease or with asymptomatic carriers. Pathogenic and nonpathogenic strains can be distinguished on the basis of differences in the electrophoretic patterns of four isoenzymes (zymodeme). With glucose phosphate isomerase and phosphoglucomutase, we observed variation of the expression of their gamma bands as a function of starch volume in culture. We cultured E. histolytica strains from different zymodemes in Robinson medium using both a low (2-4 mg/bottle) and a high (12-15 mg/bottle) content of rice starch as supplement. These cultures were monitored by electrophoresis of glucose phosphate isomerase and phosphoglucomutase. Strains having gamma or delta bands exhibited those bands when a high content of starch was used in culture, but did not do so with a low content. Contrarily, strains that never exhibited those bands did not express them when the amount of starch in the culture was increased. However, alpha and beta bands of the same isoenzymes were always present and never showed any variation. The results suggest that expression of gamma and delta bands of glucose phosphate isomerase and phosphoglucomutase are subject to culture conditions and that genes coding for those isoenzymes may be different from those coding for the alpha and beta bands.
18252122	Field investigations were conducted in Kundoz Province, an Afghan high-risk area, to determine factors responsible for the rapid reemergence of malaria in that country, where 3 million cases were estimated to have occurred during 2002. Results indicate the presence of nonrice-field-dependent Plasmodium falciparum and rice-field-associated P. vivax malaria.
18252732	Root temperature is found to be a very important factor for leaves to alter the response and susceptibility to chilling stress. Severe visible damage was observed in the most active leaves of seedlings of a japonica rice (Oryza sativa cv. Akitakomachi), e.g. the third leaf at the third-leaf stage, after the treatment where only leaves but not roots were chilled (L/H). On the other hand, no visible damage was observed after the treatment where both leaves and roots were chilled simultaneously (L/L). The chilling injury induced by L/H, a novel type of chilling injury, required the light either during or after the chilling in order to develop the visible symptoms such as leaf bleaching and tissue necrosis. Chlorophyll fluorescence parameters measured after various lengths of chilling treatments showed that significant changes were induced before the visible injury. The effective quantum yield and photochemical quenching of PSII dropped dramatically within 24 h in both the presence and absence of a 12 h light period. The maximal quantum yield and non-photochemical quenching of PSII decreased significantly only in the presence of light. On the other hand, L/H chilling did not affect the function of PSI, but caused a significant decrease in the electron availability for PSI. These results suggest that the leaf chilling with high root temperature destroys some component between PSII and PSI without the aid of light, which causes the over-reduction of PSII in the light, and thereby the visible injury is induced only in the light.
18253451	An experimental study has been made of the angular structure of radiation scattered by monolayers of large nonabsorbing particles. We have investigated three media exhibiting different light-scattering properties: monodisperse polyvinyl toluene latex particles of 3.75-mum diameter suspended in water, polydisperse rice starch particles with a mean diameter of 6.4 mum suspended in water, and a mixture of ethyl and benzoic alcohols. It is shown that for large particles the structure of scattered radiation can be described in a single-scattering approximation. Analysis of the influence of polydispersity and the relative refractive index of particles on the intensity scattered by the monolayer has been performed.
18253825	Genetic diversity and population genetic structure of autotetraploid and diploid populations of rice collected from Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, were studied based on 36 microsatellite loci. Among 50 varieties, a moderate to high level of genetic diversity was observed at the population level, with the number of alleles per locus (Ae) ranging from 2 to 6 (mean 3.028) and polymorphism information content ranging from 0.04 to 0.76 (mean 0.366). The expected heterozygosity (He) varied from 0.04 to 0.76 (mean 0.370) and Shannon's index (I) from 0.098 to 1.613 (mean 0.649). The autotetraploid populations showed slightly higher levels of Ae, He, and I than the diploid populations. Rare alleles were observed at most of the simple sequence repeat loci in one or more of the 50 accessions, and a core fingerprint database of the autotetraploid and diploid rice was constructed. The F-statistics showed genetic variability mainly among autotetraploid populations rather than diploid populations (Fst = 0.066). Cluster analysis of the 50 accessions showed four major groups. Group I contained all of the autotetraploid and diploid indica maintainer lines and an autotetraploid and its original diploid indica male sterile lines. Group II contained only the original IR accessions. Group III was more diverse than either Group II or Group IV, comprising both autotetraploid and diploid indica restoring lines. Group IV included a japonica cluster of the autotetraploid and diploid rices. Furthermore, genetic differences at the single-locus and two-locus levels, as well as components due to allelic and gametic differentiation, were revealed between autotetraploid and diploid varieties. This analysis indicated that the gene pools of diploid and autotetraploid rice were somewhat dissimilar, as variation exists that distinguishes autotetraploid from diploid rices. Using this variation, we can breed new autotetraploid varieties with some important agricultural characters that were not found in the original diploid rice varieties.
18254340	A recombinant inbred (RI) population derived from the cross between an indica variety, IR24, and a japonica variety, Asominori, was used to map QTLs controlling leaf chlorophyll content (LCC) and chlorophyll degradation speed (CDS) of detached leaves collected at the tillering stage of rice through composite interval mapping analysis (CIM). Resultantly, four QTLs (qLCC-3, qLCC-5, qLCC-7, qLCC-12) controlling LCC and three QTLs (qCDS-1, qCDS-6, qCDS-7) associated with CDS were detected respectively. Among them, qCDS-7 with the largest effect for CDS, located on chromosome 7, coincided with the genomic region of qLCC-7 for LCC detected. Those results from this study basically can explicate the genetic basis associated with leaf chlorophyll content and chlorophyll degradation speed of detached leaves in rice, which might be available for a rapid determination of leaf senescence at early growth-stages and breeding of high-photosynthetic efficiency in rice.
18254594	The physicochemical properties of starch, such as apparent amylose content, gelatinization temperature, and pasting viscosities, determine the eating, cooking, and processing qualities of various products of rice. A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from the reciprocal cross of Lemont (a premium high-quality tropical japonica rice) and Jiayu 293 (a high-yield but low-quality indica rice) was used to test the association of microsatellite markers of starch-synthesizing genes with starch quality parameters. The results confirmed the association of Wx and starch synthase I (SSI) alleles with various starch properties measured in rice flour. However, the starch properties were not associated with the starch branching enzyme 1 (SBE 1) gene alleles.
18256428	A 12-month field study was conducted between April 2004 and March 2005 to determine the association between irrigated rice cultivation and malaria transmission in Mwea, Kenya. Adult mosquitoes were collected indoors twice per month in three villages representing non-irrigated, planned, and unplanned rice agro-ecosystems and screened for blood meal sources and Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite proteins. Anopheles arabiensis Patton and An. funestus Giles comprised 98.0% and 1.9%, respectively, of the 39,609 female anophelines collected. Other species including An. pharoensis Theobald, An. maculipalpis Giles, An. pretoriensis Theobald, An. coustani Laveran, and An. rufipes Gough comprised the remaining 0.1%. The density of An. arabiensis was highest in the planned rice village and lowest in the non-irrigated village and that of An. funestus was significantly higher in the non-irrigated village than in irrigated ones. The human blood index (HBI) for An. arabiensis was significantly higher in the non-irrigated village compared with irrigated villages. For An. funestus, the HBI for each village differed significantly from the others, being highest in the non-irrigated village and lowest in the planned rice village. The sporozoite rate and annual entomologic inoculation rate (EIR) for An. arabiensis was 1.1% and 3.0 infective bites per person, respectively with no significant difference among villages. Sporozoite positive An. funestus were detected only in planned rice and non-irrigated villages. Overall, 3.0% of An. funestus samples tested positive for Plasmodium falciparum sporozoites. The annual EIR of 2.21 for this species in the non-irrigated village was significantly higher than 0.08 for the planned rice village. We conclude that at least in Mwea Kenya, irrigated rice cultivation may reduce the risk of malaria transmission by An. funestus but has no effect on malaria transmission by An. arabiensis. The zoophilic tendency of malaria vectors in irrigated areas accounts partly for low malaria transmission rates despite the presence of higher vector densities, highlighting the potential of zooprophylaxis in malaria control.
18256463	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) produces a variety of diterpene phytoalexins, such as momilactones, phytocassanes, and oryzalexins. Momilactone B was previously identified as an allelopathic substance exuded from the roots of rice. We identified in this present study momilactone A and phytocassanes A-E in extracts of, and exudates from, the roots of rice seedlings. The concentration of each compound was of the same order of magnitude as that of momilactone B. Expression analyses of the diterpene cyclase genes responsible for the biosynthesis of momilactones and phytocassanes suggest that these phytoalexins found in roots are primarily biosynthesized in those roots. None of phytocassanes B-E exhibited allelopathic activity against dicot seedling growth, whereas momilactone A showed much weaker allelopathic activity than momilactone B. The exudation of diterpene phytoalexins from the roots might be part of a system for defense against root-infecting pathogens.
18256466	Two H-type microbial fuel cells were prepared. The anaerobic chambers were inoculated with rice paddy field soil and fed cellulose as an energy source. In one reactor, the anode and cathode were connected with a wire (closed circuit, CC), while they were not connected in the other reactor (open circuit, OC). The OC reactor actively produced methane. In the CC reactor, however, an electric current of 0.2 to 0.3 mA was constantly generated, and methane production was almost completely suppressed. Electron microscopy revealed that rod-shaped cells with long prosthecae-like filaments were specifically enriched in the CC reactor. Comparisons of 16S rRNA gene clone libraries revealed entirely different phylogenetic compositions in the CC and OC communities; phylotypes related to Rhizobiceae, Desulfovibrio, and Ethanoligenens were specifically enriched in the CC community. The results indicate that electrogenesis resulted in the enrichment of distinctive microbial populations and suppressed methanogenesis from cellulose.
18256471	Clay wall (also called mud wall in English and tsuchikabe in Japanese) material is used in traditional Japanese buildings. Clay wall material is manufactured by fermenting a mixture of clay, sand, and rice straw. A culture-independent study based on 16s rRNA sequences revealed that Clostridiales of Firmicutes, alpha-, gamma- and delta-proteobacteria of Proteobacteria, and Acidobacterium of Acidobacteria exist in the clay wall material. Of these, we focused on Clostridium and Geobacter and their possible roles in the degradation of the cellulose component of the straw and the reduction of ferric iron in the clay during fermentation.
18256484	A by-product of rice bran oil and protein production was treated with water and compressed hot water at 20 degrees C to 260 degrees C for 5 min, and at 200 degrees C and 260 degrees C for 5 to 120 min. Each extract was evaluated for its yield, radical scavenging activity, carbohydrate, protein, total phenolic and furfural contents, molecular-mass distribution and antioxidative activity. The maximum yield was obtained at 200 degrees C. The radical scavenging activity and the protein, total phenolic and furfural contents of the extract increased with increasing temperature. However, the carbohydrate content abruptly decreased when treated at above 200 degrees C. The extract treated at 260 degrees C for 5 min exhibited suppressive activity toward the autoxidation of linoleic acid. Each extract obtained at temperatures lower than or equal to 200 degrees C exhibited emulsifying ability.
18256497	The rice genome contains two ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase genes: OsCPS1 acts in gibberellin (phytohormone) biosynthesis, and OsCPS2/OsCyc2 acts in the synthesis of oryzalexins A-F and phytocassanes A-E (phytoalexins). We characterized the enzymatic properties of recombinant OsCPS2/OsCyc2 fused with a tag-protein at the N-terminus, and compared them to those of OsCPS1. Several enzymatic properties of OsCPS2/OsCyc2, including the optimal pH, optimal temperature, divalent cation requirement, and kinetic values for the geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGDP) substrate, were almost the same as those of OsCPS1. However, OsCPS2/OsCyc2 activity was not inhibited by 50-60 muM GGDP substrate, by which the OsCPS1 activity was inhibited. Furthermore, the OsCPS1 activity exhibited approximately 70% inhibition by 100 muM Amo-1618 (a gibberellin biosynthetic inhibitor), whereas the OsCPS2/OsCyc2 activity exhibited approximately 10% inhibition. These results indicate that the properties of OsCPS2/OsCyc2 were partially different from those of OsCPS1, although OsCPS2/OsCyc2 catalyzes the same reaction step as OsCPS1.
18256707	We demonstrate that native grass species from coastal and geothermal habitats require symbiotic fungal endophytes for salt and heat tolerance, respectively. Symbiotically conferred stress tolerance is a habitat-specific phenomenon with geothermal endophytes conferring heat but not salt tolerance, and coastal endophytes conferring salt but not heat tolerance. The same fungal species isolated from plants in habitats devoid of salt or heat stress did not confer these stress tolerances. Moreover, fungal endophytes from agricultural crops conferred disease resistance and not salt or heat tolerance. We define habitat-specific, symbiotically-conferred stress tolerance as habitat-adapted symbiosis and hypothesize that it is responsible for the establishment of plants in high-stress habitats. The agricultural, coastal and geothermal plant endophytes also colonized tomato (a model eudicot) and conferred disease, salt and heat tolerance, respectively. In addition, the coastal plant endophyte colonized rice (a model monocot) and conferred salt tolerance. These endophytes have a broad host range encompassing both monocots and eudicots. Interestingly, the endophytes also conferred drought tolerance to plants regardless of the habitat of origin. Abiotic stress tolerance correlated either with a decrease in water consumption or reactive oxygen sensitivity/generation but not to increased osmolyte production. The ability of fungal endophytes to confer stress tolerance to plants may provide a novel strategy for mitigating the impacts of global climate change on agricultural and native plant communities.
18257135	A novel vacuolar Na+/H+ exchanger, CgNHX1, was cloned from a halophytic species Chenopodium glaucum by using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) technique. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis of 22 NHX genes from GenBank as well as the new CgNHX1 gene indicate that NHX genes shared a great degree of similarity, regardless of their glycophytic or halophytic origin. Expression of the CgNHX1 gene was induced by NaCl and peaked at 400 mmol/L NaCl. Overexpression of NHX1 genes in rice enhanced their tolerance to salt stress. However, there is no significant difference in salt tolerance among the transgenic rice plants overexpressing the NHX1 genes from either glycophytic or halophytic species. The Na+ content of both the wild type (WT) and transgenic plants increased when exposed to 50 and 100 mmol/L NaCl, and the Na+ concentration in transgenic plants was marginally higher than that of WT. Our data demonstrate that the overexpression of the NHX1 gene from either glycophytic or halophytic species resulted in the enhanced tolerance to salt stress at a similar level, suggesting that NHX gene per se might not be the reason accounting for the difference in salt tolerance between glycophytes and halophytes.
18257679	The RAR1 and SGT1 proteins function synergistically or antagonistically in plant innate immune responses. Here, we show that the rice orthologs OsRAR1 and OsSGT1 physically interact in vivo and in yeast. They displayed conserved roles in Arabidopsis disease resistance through ectopic expression in the Arabidopsis rar1 and sgt1 mutants. Overexpression of OsRar1 and OsSGT1 in rice significantly increased basal resistance to a virulent bacterial blight Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae PXO99 but not to another virulent strain DY89031, suggesting race-specific-like basal resistance conferred by OsRar1 and OsSGT1. OsRar1-OE and OsSGT1-OE plants also enhanced resistance to all four virulent blast fungal Magnaporthe oryzae races. Overexpression of the OsSGT1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion most likely caused a dominant negative phenotype which led to race-specific-like basal resistance. Transgenic plants overexpressing OsSGT1-GFP show enhanced resistance to DY89031 but decreased resistance to PXO99, implying that OsSGT1 might be the target of a component required for DY89031 virulence or OsSGT1-GFP might stabilize weak resistance proteins against DY89031. Consistent with the hypothesis of the dominant negative regulation, we observed the reduced sensitivity to auxin of OsSGT1-GFP plants compared with the wild-type ones, and the curling-root phenotype in OsSGT1-OE plants. These results collectively suggest that OsRar1 and OsSGT1 might be differentially required for rice basal disease resistance. Our current study also provides new insight into the roles of OsSGT1 in basal disease resistance.
18258028	Using historical data, we highlight the consequences of anthropogenic ecosystem modifications on the abundance of mosquitoes implicated as the current most important potential malaria vector, Anopheles hyrcanus, and the most important West Nile virus (WNV) vector, Culex modestus, in the Camargue region, France. From World War II to 1971, populations of these species increased as rice cultivation expanded in the region in a political context that supported agriculture. They then fell, likely because of decreased cultivation and increased pesticide use to control a rice pest. The species increased again after 2000 with the advent of more targeted pest-management strategies, mainly the results of European regulations decisions. An intertwined influence of political context, environmental constraints, technical improvements, and social factors led to changes in mosquito abundance that had potential consequences on malaria and WNV transmission. These findings suggest that anthropogenic changes should not be underestimated in vectorborne disease recrudescence.
18258125	Antibodies to Burkholderia pseudomallei were detected in 16% of children in Siem Reap, Cambodia. This organism was isolated from 30% of rice paddies in the surrounding vicinity. Despite the lack of reported indigenous cases, melioidosis is likely to occur in Cambodia.
18258355	The most natural waterways in Thailand are utilized for conventional agricultures, e.g. irrigation and wastewater discharge. Concentrations of 20 organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) were measured in surface sediments collected from the tributaries of the Mae Klong River during 2003-2005. The sampling sites chosen were nearby the rice paddy which organochlorine pesticides were intensively used for crop cultivation. Solid-liquid extraction technique was used for sediment extraction, and gas chromatography with electron capture detector was applied for pesticides determination. Total concentrations of OCPs found were ranged from 4.12 to 214.91 microg g(-1) dw in the first year. In the second year, total residue concentrations in the surface sediments were in the range of 3.26-215.09 microg g(-1) dw. Concentrations of pesticides were greater in dry-season rice cultivation period in both sampling years, and heptachlor epoxide was the contaminant found at highest concentration in this study. In addition, the occurrence of some selected contaminants including DDT, DDD and DDE reflects the recent contamination in the study area. This demonstrates not only that the natural waterway was polluted and contained much pesticide residues, but it also illustrates the necessity of a continuous long-term monitoring of the affected environment.
18258630	Both folate and betaine are important predictors of total homocysteine (tHcy) during pregnancy. However, studies to date have only been undertaken in populations with Western dietary patterns. We investigated the predictors of tHcy in pregnant women recruited in the Seychelles, a population where access to fortified foods is limited and where women habitually consume diets rich in fish, eggs, rice, and fruit. Pregnant women (n = 226) provided blood samples at enrollment, at week 28 of gestation, and at delivery. Cord blood was obtained from a subset of participants (n = 135). As in other studies, maternal tHcy was lower during pregnancy than at delivery, whereas folate and vitamin B-12 status declined significantly to delivery. Despite low maternal folate status at delivery (median: 9.0 nmol/L), with 35% of women in the deficient range (serum folate: <6.8 nmol/L), cord blood folate status (median: 40.2 nmol/L) was similar to concentrations reported in Western populations. Folate was a significant predictor of tHcy at all time points (P < 0.001). In contrast with previous studies, betaine was only a significant predictor of maternal tHcy (P < 0.001) when the essential amino acid methionine was low. The current study reports 2 important findings. First, fetal requirements for folate are paramount, such that cord blood folate status is maintained, even when maternal status is low. Second, betaine is a significant predictor of tHcy in pregnant women with low serum folate and low serum methionine concentrations.
18258632	Celiac disease is an immune-mediated enteropathy caused by the ingestion of gluten, a protein fraction found in certain cereals. Immunotoxic gluten peptides that are recalcitrant to degradation of digestive enzymes appear to trigger celiac syndromes. A 33-mer peptide from alpha-2 gliadin has been identified as a principal contributor to gluten immunotoxicity. A gluten-free diet is the usual first therapy for celiac disease patients; therefore, the characterization and quantification of the toxic portion of the gluten in foodstuffs is crucial to avoid celiac damage. We aimed to develop immunologic assays as a novel food analysis tool for measuring cereal fractions that are immunotoxic to celiac disease patients. The design focused on the production of monoclonal antibodies against the gliadin 33-mer peptide and the development of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and Western blot analysis with the use of novel antibodies. A sandwich ELISA method showed a detection limit for wheat, barley, and rye of <1 ppm prolamine. However, the method required a sample that was > or =1 order of magnitude greater for the detection of low-toxic oats, and there was no signal with the safe cereals maize and rice. A competitive ELISA method was also developed for detection of the toxic peptide in hydrolyzed food, which had a detection limit of <0.5 ppm gliadin. Both ELISAs designed for use with the toxic gliadin 33-mer peptide suggested a high correlation between the presence of the peptide and the amount of cereal that was toxic to celiac disease patients. The sensitivity was significantly higher than that of equivalent methods recognizing other gluten epitopes.
18258694	Metallothioneins (MTs) are low molecular mass and cysteine-rich metal-binding proteins known to be mainly involved in maintaining metal homeostasis and stress responses. But, their functions in higher plant development are scarcely studied. Here, we characterized rice (Oryza sativa) METALLOTHIONEIN2b (OsMT2b) molecularly and found that its expression was down-regulated by cytokinins. OsMT2b was preferentially expressed in rice immature panicles, scutellum of germinating embryos, and primordium of lateral roots. In contrast with wild-type plants, OsMT2b-RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic plants had serious handicap in plant growth and root formation, whereas OsMT2b-overexpressing transformants were dwarfed and presented more adventitious roots and big lateral roots. The increased cytokinin levels in RNAi plants and decreased cytokinin levels in overexpressing plants were confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography quantitative analysis in the roots of wild-type and transgenic plants. In RNAi plants, localization of isopentenyladenosine, a kind of endogenous cytokinin, in roots and germinating embryos expanded to the whole tissues, whereas in overexpressing plants, the isopentenyladenosine signals were very faint in the vascular tissues of roots and scutellum cells of germinating embryos. In vitro culture of embryos could largely resume the reduced germination frequency in RNAi plants but had no obvious change in overexpressing plants. Taken together, these results indicate a possible feedback regulation mechanism of OsMT2b to the level of endogenous cytokinins that is involved in root development and seed embryo germination of rice.
18260445	The canopy hyperspectral reflectance data of rice at its different development stages were collected from field measurement, and the corresponding NDVIs as well as the correlation coefficients of NDVIs and LAI were computed at extending bandwidth of TM red and near-infrared (NIR) spectra. According to the variation characteristics of best fitted R2 with spectral bandwidth, the optimal bandwidth was determined. The results showed that the correlation coefficients of LAI and ND-VI and the maximum R2 of the best fitted functions at different spectral bandwidths had the same variation trend, i.e., decreased with increasing bandwidth when the bandwidth was less than 60 nm. However, when the bandwidth was beyond 60 nm, the maximum R2 somewhat fluctuated due to the effect of NIR. The analysis of R2 variation with bandwidth indicated that 15 nm was the optimal bandwidth for the estimation of rice LAI by using NDVI.
18260448	Using six rice varieties with different phosphorus (P) use efficiency as the materials, the photosynthesis and active-oxygen-scavenging enzyme activities of the rice varieties under different P conditions were studied. Under deficient P condition, the photosynthetic rate (Pn) and soluble protein content (pro) were all gradually decreased with the growth process in the six tested varieties. The Pn and pro were always lower under deficient P condition than those under sufficient P condition. The Pn (ranging from 10.06-10.83 micromol CO2 x m(-2) x s(-1)), chlorophyll content (ranging from 3.32-3.56 mg x g(-1) FM) and pro (ranging from 33.08-33.95 mg x g(-1) FM) were all the highest in varieties with high-P efficiency, then in varieties with mid-P efficiency, and the lowest in varieties with low-P efficiency. There were no obvious differences on stomatal conductance (Gs) among the varieties. Meanwhile, the superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities of the tested varieties were all decreased with the process of deficient P stress. The SOD activities were also shown to be the highest in the varieties with high-P efficiency, then in the varieties with mid-P efficiency, and the lowest in the varieties with low-P efficiency under deficient P conditions. The malondialdehyde (MDA) contents in the tested varieties showed a reverse pattern of the SOD activities, with the highest in varieties with low-P efficiency and lowest in varieties with high-P efficiency. There was not an obvious change pattern on POD activity among the tested varieties under different P conditions. Under deficient P condition, the higher SOD activity and lower peroxidation degree of cell membrane system play important roles in improving the photosynthesis of the varieties with high-P efficiency.
18260454	Two typical land-use types, i.e., newly cultivated slope land and mellow upland, were selected to investigate the effects of ex situ rice straw incorporation on the organic matter content, field water-holding capacity, bulk density, and porosity of hilly red soil, and to approach the correlations between these parameters. The results showed that ex situ incorporation of rice straw increased soil organic matter content, ameliorated soil physical properties, and improved soil water storage. Comparing with non-fertilization and applying chemical fertilizers, ex situ incorporation of rice straw increased the contents of organic matter (5.8%-28.9%) and > 0.25 mm water-stable aggregates in 0-20 cm soil layer, and increased the field water-holding capacity (6.8%-16.2%) and porosity (4.8%-7.7%) significantly (P < 0.05) while decreased the bulk density (4.5%-7.5%) in 10-15 cm soil layer. The organic matter content in 0-20 cm soil layer was significantly correlated to the bulk density, porosity, and field water-holding capacity in 10-15 cm soil layer (P < 0.01), and the field water-holding capacity in 0-20 cm and 10-15 cm soil layers was significantly correlated to the bulk density and porosity in these two layers (P < 0.05).
18260470	The investigation on the food selenium content in Guangzhou City of Guangdong Province showed that viscera of animal foods, aquatic products, eggs, and mutton were abundant with selenium (> 150.0 microg x kg(-1)), followed by cereals and beans (46.5-98.3 microg x kg(-1)), vegetables (15.8 microg x kg(-1)), and fruits (4.97 microg x kg(-1)). Among vegetable foods, mushroom had the highest selenium content (46.0 microg x kg(-1)). The daily selenium intake of residents in Guangzhou was 98.5 microg, in which, 73.7% was contributed by animal foods, and 26.3% was from vegetable foods. Aquatic products, pork and rice contributed 24.8%, 22.3% and 17.2%, respectively. The food selenium content and resident daily selenium intake in Guangzhou could meet the demand of human health in the City.
18260475	High temperature-induced rice sterility at anthesis is characterized by its organ-specific, high severity, and low predictability of occurrence. This paper summarized the research advances in rice sterility at anthesis under high temperature, including occurrence period, injury temperature regime, differences in responses among varieties, damage mechanisms, evaluation methods, genetics of tolerance traits, and molecular biology of anther dehiscence and pollen abortion, etc. Based on the relevant researches in Japan as well as the studies in Jianghan Plain, China on the climate conditions under which high temperature-induced damage on middle-season rice hybrids occurred, some key points and main options for the further research were suggested.
18260611	To identify integral and peripheral plasma membrane (PM) proteins from Oryza sativa (rice), highly enriched PM fractions from rice suspension cultured cells were analyzed using two complementary approaches. The PM was enriched using aqueous two-phase partitioning and high pH carbonate washing to remove soluble, contaminating proteins and characterized using enzymatic and immunological analyses. Proteins from the carbonate-washed PM (WPM) were analyzed by either one-dimensional gel electrophoresis (1D-SDS-PAGE) followed by tryptic proteolysis or proteolysis followed by strong cation exchange liquid chromatography (LC) with subsequent analysis of the tryptic peptides by LC-MS/MS (termed Gel-LC-MS/MS and 2D-LC-MS/MS, respectively). Combining the results of these two approaches, 438 proteins were identified on the basis of two or more matching peptides, and a further 367 proteins were identified on the basis of single peptide matches after data analysis with two independent search algorithms. Of these 805 proteins, 350 were predicted to be PM or PM-associated proteins. Four hundred and twenty-five proteins (53%) were predicted to be integrally associated with a membrane, via either one or many (up to 16) transmembrane domains, a GPI-anchor, or membrane-spanning beta-barrels. Approximately 80% of the 805 identified proteins were assigned a predicted function, based on similarity to proteins of known function or the presence of functional domains. Proteins involved in PM-related activities such as signaling (21% of the 805 proteins), transporters and ATPases (14%), and cellular trafficking (8%), such as via vesicles involved in endo- and exocytosis, were identified. Proteins that are involved in cell wall biosynthesis were also identified (5%) and included three cellulose synthase (CESA) proteins, a cellulose synthase-like D (CSLD) protein, cellulases, and several callose synthases. Approximately 20% of the proteins identified in this study remained functionally unclassified despite being predicted to be membrane proteins.
18260705	Nutrition effects on mortality in the Japan Collaborative Cohort Study (JACC Study) were investigated using interview and follow up. Multivitamin and vitamin E use was found to be associated with lower mortality from cerebrovascular disease (CVD). For all causes, CVD and ischemic heart disease (IHD), total energy intake and cutting breakfast were associated with elevated, while rice intake, fruit, sweets, tofu, pickles, dried fish, deep-fried foods, tea and coffee and seaweed were generally linked with lowered mortality. Consistent across the sexes, protection was evident against lung cancer with seaweed, prostate cancer with fresh fish, and liver cancer with pork and rice intake. Positive associations were found between potato consumption and colon cancer, as well as for fat intake and liver cancer. Clearly, the diet has a major impact on chronic disease processes in the Japanese population.
18262409	This laboratory scale experiment was designed to study the suitability of organic wastes from paper and food seasoning industries to improve the soil organic carbon for rice cultivation. Lignin-rich wastewater from paper industry and nitrogen-rich effluent from a food industry at suitably lower concentrations were used at two levels of green manure to enhance the soil organic carbon fraction over time. Both the groups of soils with or without Sesbania were incubated under submerged condition at 25 degrees C for 15 days. Wastewaters from paper industry (WP), food industry (WS), and a combination of WP+WS were added separately to both the treatment groups in flasks. After 103 days of incubation, from all the three treatments and control, total organic carbon and alkali-soluble organic carbon fractions were analyzed. Results indicated that in all the three treatments containing green manure amended with industrial wastewaters, the organic carbon content increased significantly. The alkali-soluble organic carbon fraction was increased by 59% in the soil amended with green manure containing WS and by 31% in the treatment without green manure compared to control. The paper mill waste water namely, WP, increased the organic carbon only in the soil containing green manure by 63%. The combined treatment of WP+WS with green manure increased alkali-soluble organic carbon fraction by 90% compared to control, while in the treatment without green manure, the organic carbon increase was 71%. Overall, the combined treatment WP+WS with green manure could increase the alkali-soluble organic carbon fraction more than all other treatments. Hence, wastewater rich in organics from paper and food industries can be efficiently used to temporarily increase the soil organic carbon content.
18262459	The hormone cytokinin is perceived via a phosphorelay that is similar to the two-component systems with which bacteria sense and respond to environmental stimuli. Characterization of two-component elements in Arabidopsis, maize and rice shows that cytokinin responses are mediated via partially redundant two-component protein families: histidine kinases, histidine phosphotransfer proteins and response regulators, as well as by novel players, such as the cytokinin response factors. Recent studies in the model plant Arabidopsis have revealed that cytokinin regulates these signaling components through a variety of mechanisms, including modulating transcription, controlling phosphorelay and regulating protein localization and stability. Genetic analyses of cytokinin signaling components have clarified the roles of cytokinin signaling in development and revealed novel functions for this 'classic' phytohormone.
18262725	The adsorption of two basic dyes, namely, Malachite Green and Methylene Blue onto both agricultural by-products (i.e. rice bran and wheat bran) has been investigated in this study. The adsorption of both basic dyes was solution pH-dependent. The kinetic experimental data were analyzed using four kinetic equations including pseudo-first-order equation, pseudo-second-order equation, external diffusion model and intraparticle diffusion model to examine the mechanism of adsorption and potential rate-controlling step. The best-fit equation was identified using normalized standard deviation. The Langmuir and Freundich isotherms were used to fit the equilibrium data and the results showed that the Langmuir isotherm exhibited a little better fit to the Methylene Blue adsorption data by both adsorbents while the Freundlich isotherm seemed to agree better with the Malachite Green adsorption. The Gibbs free energy changes at 20 degrees C were calculated and the obtained values supported the conclusion that two dyes molecules adsorbed by physical processes. The effects of particle size, adsorbent concentration and solution ionic strength on the adsorption of the two basic dyes were also studied.
18262780	The costly disposal of the semisolid residual pomace generated in the two phase extraction used in modern olive mills is causing serious problems to the small oil producers of rural southeastern Spain. Composting may be a viable alternative since complementary residues are usually available in these areas to prepare an adequate starting mixture. In this work, four different combinations of residues (pomace+rabbit manure, pomace+sheep manure, pomace+rabbit manure+rice straw, pomace+rabbit manure+almond shells) were composted in 3 ton piles aerated by turnings, using technology available to any small community of oil producers. During the four long processes (9-10 months), a steady decrease of organic matter and increases in the concentrations of nutrient and humic substances were observed, together with large increases in pH and salinity which may reduce the agronomic value of the final products.
18262784	Pretreatment with dilute sulfuric acid of silvergrass was compared with the pretreatment's effect on other commonly used lignocellulosic materials, namely rice straw and bagasse, in order to evaluate the potential of this feedstock for ethanol production. The highest yield of xylose from silvergrass was between 70% and 75%, which was similar to bagasse. However, silvergrass gave a higher level of fermentability than bagasse using the hydrolysate because less acetic acid was formed. The release of sugars resulted in an about 2.0-fold increase in specific surface area of the pretreated silvergrass. Increasing the specific surface area did not obviously enhance enzymatic digestibility. The hydrophilicity of the acid pretreated silvergrass was characterized using its Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra. The increase in hydrophilicity may enhance enzymatic adsorption onto lignin and increase the accumulation of cellobiose for enzymatic hydrolysis as pretreatment severity increases.
18263775	We present high-resolution maps of DNA methylation and H3K4 di- and trimethylation of two entire chromosomes and two fully sequenced centromeres in rice (Oryza sativa) shoots and cultured cells. This analysis reveals combinatorial interactions between these epigenetic modifications and chromatin structure and gene expression. Cytologically densely stained heterochromatin had less H3K4me2 and H3K4me3 and more methylated DNA than the less densely stained euchromatin, whereas centromeres had a unique epigenetic composition. Most transposable elements had highly methylated DNA but no H3K4 methylation, whereas more than half of protein-coding genes had both methylated DNA and di- and/or trimethylated H3K4. Methylation of DNA but not H3K4 was correlated with suppressed transcription. By contrast, when both DNA and H3K4 were methylated, transcription was only slightly reduced. Transcriptional activity was positively correlated with the ratio of H3K4me3/H3K4me2: genes with predominantly H3K4me3 were actively transcribed, whereas genes with predominantly H3K4me2 were transcribed at moderate levels. More protein-coding genes contained all three modifications, and more transposons contained DNA methylation in shoots than cultured cells. Differential epigenetic modifications correlated to tissue-specific expression between shoots and cultured cells. Collectively, this study provides insights into the rice epigenomes and their effect on gene expression and plant development.
18263782	Previous research has demonstrated that AtPHR1 plays a central role in phosphate (Pi)-starvation signaling in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this work, two OsPHR genes from rice (Oryza sativa) were isolated and designated as OsPHR1 and OsPHR2 based on amino acid sequence homology to AtPHR1. Their functions in Pi signaling in rice were investigated using transgenic plants. Our results showed that both OsPHR1 and OsPHR2 are involved in Pi-starvation signaling pathway by regulation of the expression of Pi-starvation-induced genes, whereas only OsPHR2 overexpression results in the excessive accumulation of Pi in shoots under Pi-sufficient conditions. Under Pi-sufficient conditions, overexpression of OsPHR2 mimics Pi-starvation stress in rice with enhanced root elongation and proliferated root hair growth, suggesting the involvement of OsPHR2 in Pi-dependent root architecture alteration by both systematic and local pathways. In OsPHR2-overexpression plants, some Pi transporters were up-regulated under Pi-sufficient conditions, which correlates with the strongly increased content of Pi. The mechanism behind the OsPHR2 regulated Pi accumulation will provide useful approaches to develop smart plants with high Pi efficiency.
18263836	Ichthyophonus-like organisms were found in two free-ranging adult spotted salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum) captured within two different vernal ponds in the Virginia Commonwealth University Rice Center for Environmental Life Sciences in Charles City County, Virginia. Histopathologic examination of necropsied specimens revealed large spores, often enclosed by granulomas. These enclosed spores resembled those caused by the fish pathogen Ichthyophonus hoeferi. One salamander displayed an externally visible large swelling beneath the jaws. The other lacked macroscopic abnormalities, but histologic sections of ventral muscle revealed early-stage Ichthyophonus-like organisms and minimal granulomatous reactions. This is the first report of Ichthyophonus-like infection of Ambystoma maculatum in Virginia.
18265866	We assessed resources, challenges and prospects of the dairy industries in four districts of Bangladesh (Mymensingh, Satkhira, Chittagong and Sirajganj) with the participation of 8 to 12 dairy farm families in each district. We used ten participatory rural appraisal (PRA) tools, namely social mapping, semistructured interview, activity profiles, seasonal calendar, pie charts, mobility diagram, matrix ranking, preference ranking and scoring, system analysis diagram and focus group discussion in 57 PRA sessions from September through October 2002. Dairying contributed more to family income (63 to 74%) and utilized a smaller portion of land than did crops. Twenty seven to 49% of cattle feed is rice straw. Only Sirajganj and Chittagong had limited, periodic grazing facilities. Fodder (Napier; Pennisetum purpureum) cultivation was practiced in Sirajganj and Satkhira. Fodder availability increased milk production and decreased disease occurrence. Friesian crossbred cows were ranked best as dairy cattle. The present utilization of veterinary and AI services was ranked highly. Farmers outside the milk union desired milk purchasing centres as the most required service in the future. They identified veterinary and AI services as inadequate and desired significant improvements. The PRA tools effectively identified resources, constraints, opportunities and farmers' perspectives related to the dairy industries in Bangladesh.
18266057	The contamination of the environment by explosives is a worldwide problem resulting in part from 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) production. In situ phytoremediation is an appropriate, alternative, cost-effective technology to detoxify extended contamination of surface soil. The ability of rice (Oriza sativa) to both tolerate and assimilate 14C-labeled TNT was investigated over a 40-day exposure period. The germination rate decreased at 500 mg/kg TNT whereas root and shoot length increased significantly at high TNT concentrations, from 150 to 500 mg/kg. Rice took up TNT residues from soil and accumulated most in roots. Less than 25% of radioactivity taken up was translocated to aerial parts. Above 200 mg/kg TNT, the concentration of TNT residues in roots reached a maximum of approximately 0.7 mg/g. No TNT was found in plant extracts, good evidence for rapid metabolism of TNT. More than 60% of (14)C activity was found as unextractable residues in roots. It was concluded that TNT metabolized and subsequently sequestered by roots could not be translocated to aerial parts.
18266905	Jasmonic acid (JA) is an important negative regulator of light-regulated coleoptile elongation in rice. We isolated rice JASMONATE RESISTANT 1 (osjar1) mutants from the Tos17 mutant panel by BLAST search. In far-red and blue lights, osjar1 coleoptiles were longer if compared with the wild type (WT), indicating that OsJar1 participates in the suppression of coleoptile elongation in these light conditions, while the mutant did not show a clear phenotype in red light. The analysis of OsJar1 expression in phytochrome (phy) mutants revealed that phytochrome A (phyA) and phytochrome B (phyB) act redundantly to induce this gene by red light, presumably. Unexpectedly, blue light-induced expression of OsJar1 gene was impaired in phyA-deficient mutants, indicating the involvement of phyA in the blue light signalling. In WT seedlings, OsJar1 transcripts were up-regulated transiently in response to treatment with exogenous methyl-jasmonic acid (MeJA). The dose-response curve of the MeJA treatment showed a characteristic pattern: concentrations as low as 4.5 nM could induce OsJar1 transcription, while the gene was superinduced at a concentration of 450 microM MeJA. In summary, this paper demonstrated that OsJar1 modulates light and JA signalling in the photomorphogenesis of rice.
18266919	The upregulation of the tryptophan (Trp) pathway in rice leaves infected by Bipolaris oryzae was indicated by: (i) enhanced enzyme activity of anthranilate synthase (AS), which regulates metabolic flux in the Trp pathway; (ii) elevated levels of the AS (OASA2, OASB1, and OASB2) transcripts; and (iii) increases in the contents of anthranilate, indole, and Trp. The measurement of the contents of Trp-derived metabolites by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry revealed that serotonin and its hydroxycinnamic acid amides were accumulated in infected leaves. Serotonin accumulation was preceded by a transient increase in the tryptamine content and by marked activation of Trp decarboxylase, indicating that enhanced Trp production is linked to the formation of serotonin from Trp via tryptamine. Feeding of radiolabeled serotonin to inoculated leaves demonstrated that serotonin is incorporated into the cell walls of lesion tissue. The leaves of a propagating-type lesion mimic mutant (sl, Sekiguchi lesion) lacked both serotonin production and deposition of unextractable brown material at the infection sites, and showed increased susceptibility to B. oryzae infection. Treating the mutant with serotonin restored deposition of brown material at the lesion site. In addition, the serotonin treatment suppressed the growth of fungal hyphae in the leaf tissues of the sl mutant. These findings indicated that the activation of the Trp pathway is involved in the establishment of effective physical defenses by producing serotonin in rice leaves.
18267301	Bioinformatic approaches have complemented experimental efforts to inventorize plant miRNA targets. We carried out global computational analysis of rice (Oryza sativa) transcriptome to generate a comprehensive list of putative miRNA targets. Our predictions (684 unique transcripts) showed that rice miRNAs mediate regulation of diverse functions including transcription (41%), catalysis (28%), binding (18%), and transporter activity (11%). Among the predicted targets, 61.7% hits were in coding regions and nearly 72% targets had a solitary miRNA hit. The study predicted more than 70 novel targets of 34 miRNAs putatively regulating functions like stress-response, catalysis, and binding. It was observed that more than half (55%) of the targets were conserved between O. sativa indica and O. sativa japonica. Members of 31 miRNA families were found to possess conserved targets between rice and at least one of other grass family members. About 44% of the unique targets were common between two dissimilar miRNA prediction algorithms. Such an extent of cross-species conservation and algorithmic consensus confers confidence in the list of rice miRNA targets predicted in this study.
18268378	Levels of natural radioactivity in staple food products (maize and rice) from various localities of Tanzania have been studied. The average activity concentrations of 40K, 232Th and 238U in maize were 48.79 +/- 0.11, 4.08 +/- 0.01 and 13.23 +/- 0.10 Bq kg(-1), respectively. In rice the concentrations of 40K, 232Th and 238U were 24.67 +/- 0.03, 3.82 +/- 0.02 and 5.02 +/- 0.02 Bq kg(-1), respectively. 137Cs was detected in only one sample collected in Zanzibar. The sample, with activity concentration of 5.57 +/- 0.01 Bq kg(-1), had been imported from Thailand. The relatively high average concentrations of the radionuclides in maize compared to rice may be attributed to the extensive use of phosphate fertilizers in maize production in Tanzania. Total annual committed effective doses due to total 232Th and 238U intakes as a result of consumption of staple foodstuffs for infants, children and adults were 0.16, 0.29 and 0.36 mSv y(-1), respectively, which are lower than the annual dose guideline for the general public.
18268540	The rice Eui (ELONGATED UPPERMOST INTERNODE) gene encodes a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase that deactivates bioactive gibberellins (GAs). In this study, we investigated controlled expression of the Eui gene and its role in plant development. We found that Eui was differentially induced by exogenous GAs and that the Eui promoter had the highest activity in the vascular bundles. The eui mutant was defective in starch granule development in root caps and Eui overexpression enhanced starch granule generation and gravity responses, revealing a role for GA in root starch granule development and gravity responses. Experiments using embryoless half-seeds revealed that RAmy1A and GAmyb were highly upregulated in eui aleurone cells in the absence of exogenous GA. In addition, the GA biosynthesis genes GA3ox1 and GA20ox2 were downregulated and GA2ox1 was upregulated in eui seedlings. These results indicate that EUI is involved in GA homeostasis, not only in the internodes at the heading stage, but also in the seedling stage, roots and seeds. Disturbing GA homeostasis affected the expression of the GA signaling genes GID1 (GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF 1), GID2 and SLR1. Transgenic RNA interference of the Eui gene effectively increased plant height and improved heading performance. By contrast, the ectopic expression of Eui under the promoters of the rice GA biosynthesis genes GA3ox2 and GA20ox2 significantly reduced plant height. These results demonstrate that a slight increase in Eui expression could dramatically change rice morphology, indicating the practical application of the Eui gene in rice molecular breeding for a high yield potential.
18268995	Response of water quality to agricultural cultivation was investigated for the Liangwanghe River catchment of Fuxianhu Lake region in Yunnan Province of China. Two typical tillage lands-the rice-wheat rotation (R-W) and the tobacco-pea (T-P) rotation were selected and monitored. Groundwater quality and water quality of Liangwanghe River were monitored simultaneously, as well as the farmland cultivation situation at that time. It was found that cultivation activities, such as transplanting, base fertilizer applying, top dressing, draining would cause apparent elevation of concentrations of TP, PO4(3-)-P, TN, NO3(-)-N and NH4(+)-N of groundwater in a short time period. Nutrients adsorption by crops during different bearing periods has an obvious relationship to the change of contents of TP, PO4(3-)-P, TN, NO3(-)-N, and NH4(+)-N in groundwater in a long time scale. When the crops are in a peak demand for nutrients, contents of nutrients in groundwater were found to reduce obviously, and contents of nutrients may rise for other crop conditions. Contents of TP and PO4(3-)-P of Liangwanghe River for full cultivation periods were found to be 5.8% and 21.7% lower than those for partial cultivation periods, while contents of TN, NH4(+)-N and NO3(-)-N for full cultivation periods were found to be 11.5%, 242.6% and 9.55% higher than those for partial cultivation periods.
18270106	In most digital cameras, Bayer color filter array (CFA) images are captured and demosaicing is generally carried out before compression. Recently, it was found that compression-first schemes outperform the conventional demosaicing-first schemes in terms of output image quality. An efficient prediction-based lossless compression scheme for Bayer CFA images is proposed in this paper. It exploits a context matching technique to rank the neighboring pixels when predicting a pixel, an adaptive color difference estimation scheme to remove the color spectral redundancy when handling red and blue samples, and an adaptive codeword generation technique to adjust the divisor of Rice code for encoding the prediction residues. Simulation results show that the proposed compression scheme can achieve a better compression performance than conventional lossless CFA image coding schemes.
18270462	The components of the volatile oils from the straws of Oryza sativa L. (Onshinomai, Asamurasaki, Hinohikari) were analyzed by capillary GC/GC-MS. The quantification of volatile compounds in the oils was made by the internal standard method, using palmitic acid as reference substance. Palmitic acid was the most abundant component in these samples, followed by hexahydrofarnesyl acetone and phytol.
18270478	UV radiation induces the formation of two classes of photoproducts in DNA, the cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) and the pyrimidine 6-4 pyrimidone photoproduct. CPDs in plants are repaired by class II CPD photolyase via a UV-A/blue light-dependent mechanism. The genes for the class II CPD photolyase have been cloned from higher plants such as Arabidopsis, Cucumis sativus (cucumber), Oryza sativa (rice) and Spinacia oleracea (spinach). Flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) has been identified as a cofactor. Here we report the isolation and characterization of the CPD photolyase cDNA from soybean (Glycin max). The sequence of amino acids predicted from the cDNA sequence was highly homologous to sequences of higher plant class II CPD photolyases. When the cDNA was expressed in a photolyase-deficient Escherichia coli, photoreactivation activity was partially restored by illumination with a fluorescent light. The purified enzyme showed CPD binding and light-dependent photoreactivation activities in vitro. When soybean CPD photolyase was heat-treated in vitro from 25 degrees C to 45 degrees C for 3 min, thymine dimer-binding activity and photoreactivation activity were decreased, and FAD was released from the enzyme. On the other hand, when the enzyme-CPD complex was heat-treated, photoreactivation activity was stable. We argue that FAD in the soybean CPD photolyase is labile for temperature, but once the enzyme-CPD complex has formed, FAD becomes tightly bound to the enzyme or complex.
18270740	Previously, the genes encoding non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) of the Poaceae family appear to evidence different genomic distribution and somewhat different shares of EST clones, which is suggestive of independent duplication(s) followed by functional diversity. To further evaluate the evolutionary fate of the Poaceae nsLTP genes, we have identified Ka/Ks values, conserved, mutated or lost cis-regulatory elements, responses to several elicitors, genome-wide expression profiles, and nsLTP gene-coexpression networks of both (or either) wheat and rice. The Ka/Ks values within each group and between groups appeared to be similar, but not identical, in both species. The conserved cis-regulatory elements, e.g. the RY repeat (CATGCA) element related to ABA regulation in group A, might be reflected in some degree of long-term conservation in transcriptional regulation post-dating speciation. In group A, wheat nsLTP genes, with the exception of TaLTP4, evidenced responses similar to those of plant elicitors; however, the rice nsLTP genes evidenced differences in expression profiles, even though the genes of both species have undergone purifying selection, thereby suggesting their independent functional diversity. The expression profiles of rice nsLTP genes with a microarray dataset of 155 gene expression omnibus sample (GSM) plates suggest that subfunctionalization is not the sole mechanism inherent to the evolutionary history of nsLTP genes but may, rather, function in concert with other mechanism(s). As inferred by the nsLTP gene-coexpression networks, the functional diversity of nsLTP genes appears not to be randomized, but rather to be specialized in the direction of specific biological processes over evolutionary time.
18271946	Value-added processing with respect to rice milling has traditionally treated the rice bran layer as a homogenous material that contains significant concentrations of high-value components of interest for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical applications. Investigators have shown that high-value components in the rice bran layer vary from differences in kernel-thickness, bran fraction, rice variety, and environmental conditions during the growing season. The objectives of this study were to quantify the amount of rice bran removed at pre-selected milling times and to correlate the amount of rice bran removed at each milling time with the concentration of vitamin E, gamma-oryzanol, rice bran saccharide, and protein obtained. The ultimate goal of this research is to show that rice bran fractionation is a useful method to obtain targeted, nutrient-rich bran samples for value-added processing. Two long grain rice cultivars, Cheniere and Cypress, were milled at discrete times between 3 and 40 seconds using a McGill mill to obtain bran samples for analysis. Results showed that the highest oryzanol and protein concentrations were found in the outer portion of the rice bran layer, while the highest rice bran saccharide concentration was found in the inner portion of the bran layer. Vitamin E concentration showed no significant difference across the bran layer within a variety, though the highest magnitude of concentration occurs within the first 10 seconds of milling for both varieties. To extract the higher concentration of oryzanol and protein only the outer portion of the bran layer requires processing, while to extract the higher concentration of rice bran saccharide, only the inner portion of the bran layer requires processing. Rice bran fractionation allows for the selective use of portions of the bran layer and is advantageous for two reasons: (1) bran fractions contain higher concentrations of components of interest with respect to the overall bran layer average, and (2) less bran needs to be processed to obtain components of interest.
18272356	Fungal secondary metabolites are an important source of bioactive compounds for agrochemistry and pharmacology. Over the past decade, many studies have been undertaken to characterize the biosynthetic pathways of fungal secondary metabolites. This effort has led to the discovery of new compounds, gene clusters, and key enzymes, and has been greatly supported by the recent releases of fungal genome sequences. In this review, we present results from a search for genes involved in secondary metabolism and their clusters in the genome of the rice pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea, as well as in other fungal genomes. We have also performed a phylogenetic analysis of recently discovered genes encoding hybrids between a polyketide synthase and a single non-ribosomal peptide synthetase module (PKS-NRPS), as M. grisea seems rich in these enzymes compared with other fungi. Using results from expression and functional studies, we discuss the role of these PKS-NRPS in the avirulence and pathogenicity of M. grisea.
18273382	Microsatellites are short tandem repeats of one to six bases in genomic DNA. As microsatellites are highly polymorphic and play a vital role in gene function and recombination, they are an attractive subject for research in evolution and in the genetics and breeding of animals and plants. Orphan genes have no known homologs in existing databases. Using bioinformatic computation and statistical analysis, we identified 19,26 orphan genes in the rice (Oryza sativa ssp. Japanica cv. Nipponbare) proteome. We found that a larger proportion of orphan genes are expressed after sexual maturation and under environmental pressure than nonorphan genes. Orphan genes generally have shorter protein lengths and intron size, and are faster evolving. Additionally, orphan genes have fewer PROSITE patterns with larger pattern sizes than those in nonorphan genes. The average microsatellite content and the percentage of trinucleotide repeats in orphan genes are also significantly higher than in nonorphan genes. Microsatellites are found less often in PROSITE patterns in orphan genes. Taken together, these orphan gene characteristics suggest that microsatellites play an important role in orphan gene evolution and expression.
18273684	Plants respond to adverse environment by initiating a series of signaling processes including activation of transcription factors that can regulate expression of arrays of genes for stress response and adaptation. NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) is a plant specific transcription factor family with diverse roles in development and stress regulation. In this report, a stress-responsive NAC gene (SNAC2) isolated from upland rice IRA109 (Oryza sativa L. ssp japonica) was characterized for its role in stress tolerance. SNAC2 was proven to have transactivation and DNA-binding activities in yeast and the SNAC2-GFP fusion protein was localized in the rice nuclei. Northern blot and SNAC2 promoter activity analyses suggest that SNAC2 gene was induced by drought, salinity, cold, wounding, and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. The SNAC2 gene was over-expressed in japonica rice Zhonghua 11 to test the effect on improving stress tolerance. More than 50% of the transgenic plants remained vigorous when all WT plants died after severe cold stress (4-8 degrees C for 5 days). The transgenic plants had higher cell membrane stability than wild type during the cold stress. The transgenic rice had significantly higher germination and growth rate than WT under high salinity conditions. Over-expression of SNAC2 can also improve the tolerance to PEG treatment. In addition, the SNAC2-overexpressing plants showed significantly increased sensitivity to ABA. DNA chip profiling analysis of transgenic plants revealed many up-regulated genes related to stress response and adaptation such as peroxidase, ornithine aminotransferase, heavy metal-associated protein, sodium/hydrogen exchanger, heat shock protein, GDSL-like lipase, and phenylalanine ammonia lyase. Interestingly, none of the up-regulated genes in the SNAC2-overexpressing plants matched the genes up-regulated in the transgenic plants over-expressing other stress responsive NAC genes reported previously. These data suggest SNAC2 is a novel stress responsive NAC transcription factor that possesses potential utility in improving stress tolerance of rice.
18273811	The family Poaceae includes over 10,000 species, among which are the most economically important cereals: maize, sorghum, rice, wheat, rye, barley, and oat. These cereals are very important components of human and animal food. Although divergence of the members of this family occurred about 40 million years ago, comparative genome analyses demonstrated that gene orders among species of this family remain largely conserved, which can be very useful for understanding their roles and evolution. Even with an intricate evolutionary history in which chromosome fragments, losses and duplications have to be considered at the ploidy level, grasses present a genetic model system for comparative genomics. The availability of mapped molecular markers, rice genome sequences and BAC and EST libraries from several grass species, such as rice, wheat, sorghum, and maize, facilitates biology and phylogeny studies of this group. The value of using information from different species in modern plant genetics is unquestionable, especially in the study of traits such as tolerance to aluminum in soils, which affects plant growth and development. Comparative genomic approaches to aluminum tolerance can identify genomic regions and genes responsible for aluminum tolerance in grasses.
18274696	We study here the evolution of genes located in the same physical locus using the recently sequenced Ha locus in seven wheat genomes in diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid species and compared them with barley and rice orthologous regions. We investigated both the conservation of microcolinearity and the molecular evolution of genes, including coding and noncoding sequences. Microcolinearity is restricted to two groups of genes (Unknown gene-2, VAMP, BGGP, Gsp-1, and Unknown gene-8 surrounded by several copies of ATPase), almost conserved in rice and barley, but in a different relative position. Highly conserved genes between wheat and rice run along with genes harboring different copy numbers and highly variable sequences between close wheat genomes. The coding sequence evolution appeared to be submitted to heterogeneous selective pressure and intronic sequences analysis revealed that the molecular clock hypothesis is violated in most cases.
18274725	The partial pollen abortion of hybrids between the indica and japonica subspecies of Asian cultivated rice is one of the major barriers in utilizing intersubspecific heterosis in hybrid rice breeding. Although a single hybrid pollen sterility locus may have little impact on spikelet fertility, the cumulative effect of several loci usually leads to a serious decrease in spikelet fertility. Isolating of the genes conferring hybrid pollen sterility is necessary to understand this phenomenon and to overcome the resulting genetic barrier. In this study, a new locus for F1 pollen sterility, S-d, was identified on the short arm of chromosome 1 by analyzing the genetic effect of substituted segments of the near-isogenic line E11-5 derived from the japonica variety Taichung 65 (recurrent parent) and the indica variety Dee-geo-woo-gen (donor parent). The S-d locus was first mapped to a 0.8 cM interval between SSR markers PSM46 and PSM80 using a F2 population of 125 individuals. The flanking markers were then used to identify recombinants from a population of 2,160 plants derived from heterozygotes of the primary F2 population. Simultaneously, additional markers were developed from genomic sequence divergence in this region. Analysis of the recombinants in the region resulted in the successful mapping of the S-d locus to a 67-kb fragment, containing 17 predicted genes. Positional cloning of this gene will contribute to our understanding of the molecular basis for partial pollen sterility of intersubspecific F1 hybrids in rice.
18274726	To understand the genetic basis of yield-related traits of rice, we developed 39 chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) from a cross between an average-yielding japonica cultivar, Sasanishiki, as the recurrent parent and a high-yielding indica cultivar, Habataki, as the donor. Five morphological components of panicle architecture in the CSSLs were evaluated in 2 years, and 38 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) distributed on 11 chromosomes were detected. The additive effect of each QTL was relatively small, suggesting that none of the QTLs could explain much of the phenotypic difference in sink size between Sasanishiki and Habataki. We developed nearly isogenic lines for two major QTLs, qSBN1 (for secondary branch number on chromosome 1) and qPBN6 (for primary branch number on chromosome 6), and a line containing both. Phenotypic analysis of these lines revealed that qSBN1 and qPBN6 contributed independently to sink size and that the combined line produced more spikelets. This suggests that the cumulative effects of QTLs distributed throughout the genome form the major genetic basis of panicle architecture in rice.
18277652	A field experiment located in Taihu Lake Basin of China was conducted, by application of urea or a mixture of urea with manure, to elucidate the interception of nitrogen (N) export in a typical rice field through "zero-drainage water management" combined with sound irrigation, rainfall forecasting and field drying. N concentrations in floodwater rapidly declined before the first event of field drying after three split fertilizations, and subsequently tended to return to the background level. Before the first field drying, total particulate nitrogen (TPN) was the predominant N form in floodwater of plots with no N input, dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) on plots that received urea only, and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) on plots treated with the mixture of urea and manure. Thereafter TPN became the major form. No N export was found from the rice field, but total nitrogen (TN) of 15.8 kg/hm2 was remained, mainly due to soil N sorption. The results recommended the zero-drainage water management for full-scale areas for minimizing N export.
18278014
18278531	Post-translational modifications such as glycosylation are important for changing the properties and functions of proteins. To analyze the importance of glycosylation during cold stress in rice, a proteomics approach was used. Proteins extracted from the basal part of rice leaf sheaths were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and subjected to lectin blot analysis using concanavalin A. From a total of 250 detected proteins, 22 reacted with the lectin, suggesting that they were N-glycosylated proteins. To determine how N-glycosylation of these proteins is affected by cold stress, rice seedlings were incubated at 5 degrees C for 48 h, and proteins extracted from the basal parts of leaf sheaths were analyzed by the lectin blot assay. Cold stress changed the reactivity toward the lectin for 12 of the 22 glycoproteins. The identity of the 12 proteins was determined by protein sequencing and mass spectrometry with the majority of these glycoproteins being categorized as involved in energy production. Furthermore, calreticulin, one of the 12 glycoproteins, was also phosphorylated as a result of cold stress. These results indicate that cold stress of the basal parts of rice leaf sheaths changes the glycosylation and phosphorylation profiles of calreticulin, a key protein that regulates the quality control of other proteins.
18278822	A comparison of two methods for the identification and determination of peanut allergens based on europium (Eu)-tagged inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) immunoassay and on liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS) with a triple quadrupole mass analyzer was carried out on a complex food matrix like a chocolate rice crispy-based snack. The LC/MS/MS method was based on the determination of four different peptide biomarkers selective for the Ara h2 and Ara h3/4 peanut proteins. The performance of this method was compared with that of a non-competitive sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method with ICP-MS detection of the metal used to tag the antibody for the quantitative peanut protein analysis in food. The limit of detection (LOD) and quantitation of the ICP-MS immunoassay were 2.2 and 5 microg peanuts g(-1) matrix, respectively, the recovery ranged from 86 +/- 18% to 110 +/- 4% and linearity was proved in the 5-50 microg g(-1) range. The LC/MS/MS method allowed us to obtain LODs of 1 and 5 microg protein g(-1) matrix for Ara h3/4 and Ara h2, respectively, thus obtaining significantly higher values with respect to the ELISA ICP-MS method, taking into account the different expression for concentrations. Linearity was established in the 10-200 microg g(-1) range of peanut proteins in the food matrix investigated and good precision (RSD <10%) was demonstrated. Both the two approaches, used for screening or confirmative purposes, showed the power of mass spectrometry when used as a very selective detector in difficult matrices even if some limitations still exist, i.e. matrix suppression in the LC/ESI-MS/MS procedure and the change of the Ag/Ab binding with matrix in the ICP-MS method.
1827972	A water-soluble compound related to zearalenone was isolated from a culture of Fusarium graminearum 30 grown in rice. The structure of the novel metabolite was determined to be zearalenone-4-sulfate on the basis of fast-atom-bombardment mass spectrometry, proton nuclear magnetic resonance, UV spectroscopy, and by chemical and enzymatic reactions. Strains representing Fusarium equiseti, Fusarium sambucinum, and Fusarium roseum produced the sulfate conjugate as well. In the rat uterus enlargement bioassay, the metabolite or its hydrolysis product was found to retain the estrogenic activity characteristic of zearalenone. Natural occurrence of this novel metabolite might be significant because analytical methods devised for zearalenone in grain cannot detect the conjugate but the conjugate retains the biological properties of the mycotoxin when ingested by animals.
18279990	Beauvericins and enniatins are cyclohexadepsipeptide mycotoxins that exhibit phytotoxicity and insecticidal activities. In the present study, the production of beauvericin and newly found enniatins (H, I, and MK1688) was characterized in 28 Fusarium strains isolated from potato samples in Korea. The predominant Fusarium species in potato was F. oxysporum (53.6%). Fifteen strains of F. oxysporum and two strains of other Fusarium species produced beauvericin (at concentrations from 3.1 to 743.2 microg/g) in culture on rice. Enniatins H and I were produced by 3 and 11 strains at concentrations from 33.1 to 781.3 microg/g and from 6.5 to 730.3 microg/g, respectively. Five isolates produced enniatin MK1688 at concentrations from 4.6 to 432.6 microg/g. In particular, one isolate (No. 1501) identified as F. oxysporum and two other Fusarium strains (Nos. 804 and 910) produced all of the tested toxins. These results indicate that enniatins H, I, and MK1688 and beauvericin are produced by Fusarium isolates occurring on potato. We do not know if the toxins can accumulate in the environment since it was not demonstrated.
18281087	Rheological measurements were performed to characterize rice starch modified with 4-alpha-glucanotransferase (4alphaGTase) isolated from Thermus scotoductus, in terms of effects of the enzyme and starch concentration on flow behavior, gel strength, and melting and gelling kinetics of the modified rice starch. Consistency index decreased and flow behavior index increased with the level of enzyme treatment, and at high level of enzyme treatment, it demonstrated Bingham plastic behavior. As the level of enzyme decreased and the starch concentration increased, gelation time decreased and the final gel strength increased significantly. Regardless of treatment variables, all the modified starch gels melted at similar temperature.
18281124	While the Arabidopsis genome carries one copy of the methyltransferase 1 (MET1) gene for DNA methyltransferase, which is mainly responsible for maintaining CpG methylation, the rice genome bears two copies of the MET1 genes, OsMET1a and OsMET1b. The transcripts of OsMET1b accumulate more abundantly than those of OsMET1a in all of the tissues examined, and both genes actively transcribed at the callus, imbibed embryo, root, meristem, young panicle, anther, pistil, and endosperm, all of which contain actively dividing cells. The OsMET1a transcripts contain two 5'-untranslated exons and alternatively spliced 3'-terminal exons. The alternatively spliced transcripts consist of 14, 15, or 16 exons, and all of them encode a putative protein of 1527 amino acids. While the 3'-terminal exon of OsMET1b is unique, alternative splicing occurs in the 5'-terminal regions, which comprise either exons containing 5'-untranslated regions or an exon bearing the initiation codon. Depending upon alternative usage of 5' exons by alternative splicing, the OsMET1b transcripts comprise 11, 12, 13, or 14 exons, and the former two and the latter two longer transcripts encode putative proteins of 1486 and 1529 amino acids, respectively. Moreover, the 5' splicing patterns of OsMET1b can vary in different tissues. These findings are discussed with respect to the possible regulation of the OsMET1 genes.
1828138	To assess the potential for mycotoxin contamination of the human food supply following the 1988 U.S. drought, 92 grain food samples were purchased from retail outlets in the summer of 1989 and surveyed for aflatoxin B1, zearalenone, and deoxynivalenol (DON [vomitoxin]) by monoclonal antibody-based competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Only one sample (buckwheat flour) was found to contain aflatoxin B1 (12 ng/g), whereas zearalenone was found in 26% of the samples at a mean concentration of 19 ng/g. In contrast, the DON ELISA was positive in 50% of the samples at a detection level of 1.0 micrograms/g. Between 63 and 88% of corn cereals, wheat flour/muffin mixes, rice cereals, and corn meal/muffin mixes yielded positive results for DON, whereas 25 to 50% of oat cereals, wheat- and oat-based cookies/crackers, corn chips, popcorn, and mixed-grain cereals were positive for DON. The mean DON content of the positive samples was 4.0 micrograms/g, and the minimum and maximum levels were 1.2 and 19 micrograms/g, respectively. When positive ELISA samples were also analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography, a strong correlation between the two methods was found. The presence of DON in the two highest samples, corn meal and mixed-grain cereal, which contained 19 and 16 micrograms/g, respectively, was quantitatively confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The results indicated that DON was present in 1989 retail food products at concentrations that exceeded those found in previous market surveys and that have been experimentally associated with impaired animal health.
18281415	Plant seeds prepare for germination already during seed maturation. We performed a detailed transcriptome analysis of barley (Hordeum vulgare) grain maturation, desiccation, and germination in two tissue fractions (starchy endosperm/aleurone and embryo/scutellum) using the Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip. To aid data evaluation, Arabidopsis thaliana MapMan and PageMan tools were adapted to barley. The analyses allow a number of conclusions: (1) Cluster analysis revealed a smooth transition in transcription programs between late seed maturation and germination within embryo tissues, but not in the endosperm/aleurone. (2) More than 12,000 transcripts are stored in the embryo of dry barley grains, many of which are presumably activated during germination. (3) Transcriptional activation of storage reserve mobilization events occurs at an early stage of germination, well before radicle protrusion. (4) Key genes of gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis are already active during grain maturation at a time when abscisic acid peaks suggesting the formation of an endogenous store of GA in the aleurone. This GA probably acts later during germination in addition to newly synthesized GA. (5) Beside the well-known role of GA in gene activation during germination spatiotemporal expression data and cis-element searches in homologous rice promoters confirm an equally important gene-activating role of abscisic acid during this developmental period. The respective regulatory webs are linked to auxin and ethylene controlled networks. In summary, new bioinformatics PageMan and MapMan tools developed in barley have been successfully used to investigate in detail the transcriptome relationships between seed maturation and germination in an important crop plant.
18282188	Oxalate, a common constituent in many plants, is known to play important functional roles in plants. However, excess levels of oxalate in edible parts of plants adversely affect their quality as food. Understanding the regulatory mechanism in plants, particularly in food crops, is of both scientific and practical significance. While a number of studies have shown that nitrate can efficiently induce oxalate accumulation in plants, how it elicits such an effect is not well understood. This study aimed to gain a further insight into the mechanism underlying the nitrate-induced oxalate accumulation. Nitrate-N efficiently caused oxalate accumulation in rice leaves, depending on the nitrate concentrations and treatment time. In contrast, same nitrogen molar levels of the other N forms such as nitrite, ammonium, glutamate and urea either had no effect on the accumulation or even reduced the oxalate level. When glutamate, glutamine, asparate and asparagine were added into the nutrient solution that already contained saturating concentration of nitrate, both oxalate levels and NR activity were correspondingly decreased. In all of these modes of treatment, the change in NR activity was positively paralleled to that in oxalate levels. For a further confirmation, we generated the transgenic rice plants with a NR interference gene introduced. The result further demonstrated that in the transgenic plants, unlike in wild-type plants, oxalate was no longer able to accumulate in response to the nitrate treatment even though the endogenous nitrate levels were substantially elevated. Taken together, our results suggest that the nitrate-induced oxalate accumulation in rice leaves is dependent on the NR-catalyzed nitrate reduction, rather than on nitrate itself or nitrite reduction or its downstream metabolites.
18282189	Regulatory ACT domains serve as amino acid-binding sites in certain amino acid metabolic enzymes and transcriptional regulators in bacteria. The ACT domain repeat protein (ACR) family in plants is primarily composed of four copies of the domain homologous to those of the bacteria Gln sensor GLND. In the current study, to evaluate the possible involvement of the protein OsACR9 in the Gln-sensing system related to nitrogen (N) metabolism in rice (Oryza sativa L.), subcellular localization of OsACR9 and its accumulation and cellular distribution in various rice organs were examined by transient expression analysis and immunological methods using a monospecific antibody, respectively. Transient expression analysis of OsACR9 fused with a synthetic green fluorescent protein in cultured rice cells suggested nuclear localization of OsACR9. In rice roots, OsACR9 protein was distributed in epidermis, exodermis, sclerenchyma and vascular parenchyma cells, and its accumulation markedly increased after supply of NH(+)(4). In rice leaf samples, OsACR9 protein was abundant in the vascular parenchyma and mestome-sheath cells of young leaf blades at the early stage of development and in the vascular parenchyma and phloem-companion cells of mature leaf sheaths. OsACR9 protein also showed a high level of accumulation in vascular parenchyma cells of dorsal vascular bundles and aleurone cells in young rice grains at the early stage of ripening. The possibility of the nuclear protein OsACR9 acting as a Gln sensor in rice is subsequently discussed through comparison of its spatiotemporal expression with that of Gln-responsive N-assimilatory genes.
18282305	Although originally thought to be less frequent in plants than in animals, alternative splicing (AS) is now known to be widespread in plants. Here we report the characteristics of AS in legumes, one of the largest and most important plant families, based on EST alignments to the genome sequences of Medicago truncatula (Mt) and Lotus japonicus (Lj). Based on cognate EST alignments alone, the observed frequency of alternatively spliced genes is lower in Mt (approximately 10%, 1,107 genes) and Lj (approximately 3%, 92 genes) than in Arabidopsis and rice (both around 20%). However, AS frequencies are comparable in all four species if EST levels are normalized. Intron retention is the most common form of AS in all four plant species (~50%), with slightly lower frequency in legumes compared to Arabidopsis and rice. This differs notably from vertebrates, where exon skipping is most common. To uncover additional AS events, we aligned ESTs from other legume species against the Mt genome sequence. In this way, 248 additional Mt genes were predicted to be alternatively spliced. We also identified 22 AS events completely conserved in two or more plant species. This study extends the range of plant taxa shown to have high levels of AS, confirms the importance of intron retention in plants, and demonstrates the utility of using ESTs from related species in order to identify novel and conserved AS events. The results also indicate that the frequency of AS in plants is comparable to that observed in mammals. Finally, our results highlight the importance of normalizing EST levels when estimating the frequency of alternative splicing.
18283411	Calreticulin (CRT) is a major calcium-sequestering protein in the endoplasmic reticulum and has been implicated in a variety of cellular functions. To analyze the function of CRT in rice, a yeast two-hybrid protein interaction assay was used for identifying interacting proteins. Fourteen of 17 interacting cDNA clones found coded for a novel histidine- and alanine-rich protein (OsHARP) of 342 amino acid residues. The mRNA expression level of OsHARP was up-regulated in rice seedlings treated with gibberellin (GA), but not ABA and showed a similar pattern as OsCRT mRNA. Rice plants transformed with the OsHARP promoter-GUS construct showed GUS staining in the basal parts of leaf sheaths, and although GUS activity increased when treated with GA(3), it was not as high an increase as when mRNA was analyzed. To elucidate the role of OsHARP in leaf sheath elongation, antisense OsHARP transgenic rice lines were constructed. The antisense OsHARP transgenic rice plants were consistently shorter than the vector control under normal conditions. To examine whether OsHARP expression would affect other proteins, basal leaf sheaths from antisense OsHARP transgenic rice plants were analyzed using proteomic techniques. In antisense transgenic-rice OsHARP plants, OsCRT was down-regulated and the levels of 20 other proteins were changed compared to the pattern of the vector control. These results signify an important role of HARP in rice leaf sheath cell division or elongation and suggest that CRT may interact with HARP during certain stages of development.
18284697	High gene numbers in plant genomes reflect polyploidy and major gene duplication events. Oryza sativa, cultivated rice, is a diploid monocotyledonous species with a ~390 Mb genome that has undergone segmental duplication of a substantial portion of its genome. This, coupled with other genetic events such as tandem duplications, has resulted in a substantial number of its genes, and resulting proteins, occurring in paralogous families. Using a computational pipeline that utilizes Pfam and novel protein domains, we characterized paralogous families in rice and compared these with paralogous families in the model dicotyledonous diploid species, Arabidopsis thaliana. Arabidopsis, which has undergone genome duplication as well, has a substantially smaller genome (~120 Mb) and gene complement compared to rice. Overall, 53% and 68% of the non-transposable element-related rice and Arabidopsis proteins could be classified into paralogous protein families, respectively. Singleton and paralogous family genes differed substantially in their likelihood of encoding a protein of known or putative function; 26% and 66% of singleton genes compared to 73% and 96% of the paralogous family genes encode a known or putative protein in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively. Furthermore, a major skew in the distribution of specific gene function was observed; a total of 17 Gene Ontology categories in both rice and Arabidopsis were statistically significant in their differential distribution between paralogous family and singleton proteins. In contrast to mammalian organisms, we found that duplicated genes in rice and Arabidopsis tend to have more alternative splice forms. Using data from Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing, we show that a significant portion of the duplicated genes in rice show divergent expression although a correlation between sequence divergence and correlation of expression could be seen in very young genes. Collectively, these data suggest that while co-regulation and conserved function are present in some paralogous protein family members, evolutionary pressures have resulted in functional divergence with differential expression patterns.
18284726	Females and males of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel (Coleoptera: Erirhinidae), have two elytral color morphs in Texas: the central pattern of their elytra is black (dark morph) or gray (light morph). In southeast Texas, the dark and light females exhibited similar proportions (28.6 and 32.0%, respectively) in populations collected during the spring. In this study, females of the two morphs were collected near rice fields in southeast Texas during April and May 2005. In the laboratory, light females were more active than dark ones. They mated equally successfully with males, irrespective of morph. For females supplied with males for 2 d or kept solitary, and then reared on rice seedlings for 48 d, no significant differences were found between the two morphs in oviposition period, number of eggs deposited, and survival rate. In both morphs, a proportion of mated females did not oviposit throughout the rearing period, implying that a mating experience might be necessary before reproductive development can be initiated. However, oviposition occurred in a proportion of females in which no mating experience could be detected, and their eggs produced larvae, which suggests the probability of existing parthenogenetic females in southeast Texas.
18284753	To clarify the environmental fate of the Cry1Ac protein from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki (Bt) contained in transgenic rice plant stubble after harvest, degradation was monitored under field conditions using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In stalks, Cry1Ac protein concentration decreased rapidly to 50% of the initial amount during the first month after harvest; subsequently, the degradation decreased gradually reaching 21.3% when the experiment was terminated after 7 mo. A similar degradation pattern of the Cry1Ac protein was observed in rice roots. However, when the temperature increased in April of the following spring, protein degradation resumed, and no protein could be detected by the end of the experiment. In addition, a laboratory experiment was conducted to study the persistence of Cry1Ac protein released from rice tissue in water and paddy soil. The protein released from leaves degraded rapidly in paddy soil under flooded conditions during the first 20 d and plateaued until the termination of this trial at 135 d, when 15.3% of the initial amount was still detectable. In water, the Cry1Ac protein degraded more slowly than in soil but never entered a relatively stable phase as in soil. The degradation rate of Cry1Ac protein was significantly faster in nonsterile water than in sterile water. These results indicate that the soil environment can increase the degradation of Bt protein contained in plant residues. Therefore, plowing a field immediately after harvest could be an effective method for decreasing the persistence of Bt protein in transgenic rice fields.
18285161	Adaptive DPCM methods using linear prediction are described for the lossless compression of hyperspectral (224-band) images recorded by the Airborne Visible/Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS). The methods have two stages-predictive decorrelation (which produces residuals) and residual encoding. Good predictors are described, whose performance closely approaches limits imposed by sensor noise. It is imperative that these predictors make use of the high spectral correlations between bands. The residuals are encoded using variable-length coding (VLC) methods, and compression is improved by using eight codebooks whose design depends on the sensor's noise characteristics. Rice (1979) coding has also been evaluated; it loses 0.02-0.05 b/pixel compression compared with better VLC methods but is much simpler and faster. Results for compressing ten AVIRIS images are reported.
18287116	Identification of dispersed repetitive elements can be difficult, especially when elements share little or no homology with previously described repeats. Consequently, a growing number of computational tools have been designed to identify repetitive elements in an ab initio manner, i.e. without using prior sequence data. Here we present the results of side-by-side evaluations of six of the most widely used ab initio repeat finding programs. Using sequence from rice chromosome 12, tools were compared with regard to time requirements, ability to find known repeats, utility in identifying potential novel repeats, number and types of repeat elements recognized and compactness of family descriptions. The study reveals profound differences in the utility of the tools with some identifying virtually their entire substrate as repetitive, others making reasonable estimates of repetition, and some missing almost all repeats. Of note, even when tools recognized similar numbers of repeats they often showed marked differences in the nature and number of repeat families identified. Within the context of this comparative study, ReAS and RepeatScout showed the most promise in analysis of sequence reads and assembled genomic regions, respectively. Our results should help biologists identify the program(s), if any, that is best suited for their needs.
18287353	The ratio of cis and all-trans lycopene (LYC) in human and animal tissues exceeds that in foods. The basis for this difference remains unknown, although differences in their stability, transport, and metabolism have been suggested. Here, we systematically compared the digestive stability, efficiency of micellarization, and uptake and intracellular stability of cis and all-trans isomers of LYC and carotenes using the coupled in vitro digestion and Caco-2 human intestinal cell model. Aril and oil from the carotenoid-rich gac fruit (Momordica cochinchinensis Spreng) were cooked with rice to provide a natural source of LYC and carotenes. The ratio of cis:trans isomers of LYC and beta-carotene was similar before and after simulated gastric and small intestinal digestion with recovery of total carotenoids in the digesta exceeding 70%. Micellarization of cis isomers of LYC during digestion of meals with both gac aril and oil was significantly greater than that of the all-trans isomer but less than for the carotenes. Uptake of cis isomers of LYC by Caco-2 cells was similar to that of carotenes and significantly greater than all-trans LYC. Micellarized carotenoids were relatively stable in micelles incubated in the cell culture environment and after accumulation in Caco-2 cells. These data suggest that the greater bioaccessibility of cis compared with all-trans isomers of LYC contributes to the enrichment of the cis isomers in tissues and that gac fruit is an excellent source of bioaccessible LYC and provitamin A carotenoids.
18287620	Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) is a powerful technique for large-scale transcriptome analysis in eukaryotes. However, technical difficulties in the SAGE library construction, such as low concatemer cloning efficiency, small concatemer size, and a high level of empty clones, has prohibited its widespread use as a routine technique for expression profiling in many laboratories. We recently improved the LongSAGE library construction method considerably and developed a modified version called Robust-LongSAGE, or RL-SAGE. In RL-SAGE, concatemer cloning efficiency and clone insert size were increased significantly. About 20 PCR reactions are sufficient to make a library with more than 150,000 clones. Using RL-SAGE, we have made 10 libraries of rice, maize, and the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea.
18287690	With the completion of the genome sequences of the model plants Arabidopsis and rice, and the continuing sequencing efforts of other economically important crop plants, an unprecedented amount of genome sequence data is now available for large-scale genomics studies and analyses, such as the identification and discovery of novel genes, comparative genomics, and functional genomics. Efficient utilization of these large data sets is critically dependent on the ease of access and organization of the data. The plant databases at The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) have been set up to maintain various data types including genomic sequence, annotation and analyses, expressed transcript assemblies and analyses, and gene expression profiles from microarray studies. We present here an overview of the TIGR database resources for plant genomics and describe methods to access the data.
18287698	Rice serves as both a staple for over half of the world's population and a model organism for plants of the grass family. Beijing Genomics Institute (BGI) has long been engaged in rice genomic research: sequencing, assembly, information analysis and integration. Such intensive research results in public releases and biological applications. In order to facilitate obtaining and operating on the rice genomic data, as well as to provide a genomic groundwork for comparative, functional or evolutionary research on important cereal crops, BGI has established and updated the Rice Information System (BGI-RIS V2), an integrated information resource and comparative analysis workbench for rice genomes. BGI-RIS V2 offers not only genomic sequences, which combine the genomic data of Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica (by BGI) with Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica, but also most detailed annotation data, including genetic markers, Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) end sequences, gene contents, cDNAs, oligos, tiling arrays, repetitive elements, and genomic polymorphisms. As a basic platform, BGI-RIS V2 also offers graphical interfaces and a series of tools and services for gene finding, genomic alignment and genomic assembly. This database is available through the web server (http://rise.genomics.org.cn or http://rice.genomics.org.cn) and the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) server (ftp://ftp.genomics.org.cn/pub/database/rice).
18287700	Grasses are one of the largest agricultural crops, providing food, industrial materials and renewable energy sources. Due to their large genome size and the number of the species in the taxa, many of the genomes are not targeted for complete sequencing. Gramene seeks to provide basic researchers, industry and educators with a resource that can be used as a tool for knowledge discovery across grass species. This chapter briefly outlines system requirements for end users and database hosting, outlines data types and basic navigation within Gramene and provides an example of how a maize researcher would use Gramene to leverage rice genome organization and phenotypic information to support targeted experimental research in maize.
18287704	Massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) is a technology capable of sequencing simultaneously almost all the DNA molecules in a sample. This technology is well suited for deep profiling of mRNA and small RNA by the sequencing of cDNA tags. A series of mRNA MPSS databases has been created from various libraries derived from four different species (Arabidopsis, rice, grape, and Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast fungus). Our mRNA MPSS databases measure the absolute expression level of most genes in the sample and provide information about potentially novel transcripts (antisense transcripts, alternative splice isoforms, and regulatory intergenic transcripts). In addition to these data, we have recently built an extensive database from MPSS-derived Arabidopsis small RNA samples. All the databases are accessible thorough our Web interface (http://mpss.udel.edu), and the individual pages are equipped with various graphical and analytical tools. Here, we focus on a subset of these tools (e.g., Gene Analysis [GA], Chromosome Viewer [CV], and Library Analysis [LIBAN]) and describe how the users can analyze and interpret our MPSS expression data.
18288672	Mismatch-specific endonucleases are efficient tools for the targeted scanning of populations for subtle DNA variations. Conventional protocols involve 5'-labeled amplicon substrates and the detection of digestion products by LIF electrophoresis. A shortcoming of such protocols, however, is the limited 5'-signal strength. Normally the sensitivity of fluorescent DNA analyzers is superior to that of intercalating dye/agarose systems, however, pooling capacities of the former and latter approaches to mismatch scanning are somewhat similar. Detection is further limited by significant background. We investigated the activity of CEL nucleases using amplicon substrates labeled both internally and at each 5'-terminus. The amplicons were generated from exon 8 of the rice starch synthase IIa encoding gene. Signal of both 5'-labels was significantly reduced by enzyme activity, while that of the internal label was largely unaffected. In addition, background resulting from internal labeling was a significant improvement on that associated with 5'-labeling. Sizing of the multilabeled substrates suggests that 5'-modification enhances exonucleolytic activity, resulting in the removal of the dye-labeled terminal nucleotides. We have developed an alternative approach to mismatch detection, in which amplicon labeling is achieved via the incorporation of fluorescently labeled deoxynucleotides, which we have named Endonucleolytic Mutation Analysis by Internal Labeling (EMAIL). The strength of the EMAIL assay was demonstrated by the reclassification of a rice line as being heterozygous for the starch gene. This cultivar was assigned as being homozygous by a previous resequencing study. EMAIL shows potential for the clear identification of multiple mutations amongst allelic pools.
18288782	In efforts to find genetic resources with high nutritional value of rice seed, we assessed the diversity of the major storage protein glutelin in 13 wild and 2 cultivated rice species by a unique SDS-PAGE method and subunit-specific antibodies. Maximum separation of microheterogeneous glutelin alpha-polypeptides, which is a prerequisite for the diversity evaluation, could be attained by SDS-PAGE performed at higher temperature (45 degrees C) than the generally employed temperatures (4-25 degrees C). Seven antipeptide antibodies were raised against subunit-specific epitope sequences designed at five sites from four variable regions spanning the glutelin alpha-polypeptides. High specificity of each antibody was confirmed using rice glutelin mutants, and demonstrated considerable variation in amino acid sequence and accumulation level of glutelin subunit in wild species, in combination with the higher-temperature SDS-PAGE. The degree of the variation was, however, changed according to the site of variable regions and the type of subunit. Some wild species accumulated nutritious GluB subunits more than cultivated rice. The wild species Oryza longiglumis and O. brachyantha had glutelin with low reactivity against most antibodies examined in this study, reflecting the significant divergence. Such wild species may hopefully serve as important genetic resources for nutritional improvement of cultivated rice.
18289635	Very few studies have investigated the heavy metal contents in rice samples from a typical E-waste recycling area. In this study, 10 heavy metals (As, Ba, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Hg, Mn, Ni and Pb) in 13 polished rice and relevant hull samples, six relevant paddy soil samples were investigated. The geometric mean concentrations of Cd, Cu and Hg in soil samples were 1.19, 9.98 and 0.32 microg g(-1), respectively, which were 4.0, 2.0 and 1.1-folds of the maximum allowable concentration (MAC) (0.30, 50.00, 0.30 microg g(-1), respectively) for Chinese agricultural soils. The analyzed metal concentrations were significantly different between rice and relevant hull except for As, Cd and Hg (p<0.05). All metal concentrations, except for Co, in rice hull were higher than those in polished rice. The geometric mean of Pb in polished rice reached 0.69 microg g(-1), which was 3.5-folds higher than the MAC (0.20 microg g(-1)) by the safety criteria for milled rice. Cd contents in 31% of the rice samples exceeded the national MAC (0.20 microg g(-1)), and the arithmetic mean also slightly exceeded national MAC. In addition, Cd and Pb contents in local rice were much higher than commercial rice samples examined in this work and previous studies. Comparing the tolerable daily intakes given by FAO/WHO with the mean estimated daily intakes; Pb daily intake through rice consumption in this area was 3.7 microg day(-1)kg(-1) body weight (bw), which already exceeded the FAO tolerable daily intake, and the Cd daily intake (0.7 microg day(-1)kg(-1) bw) through rice had already taken up 70% of the total tolerable daily intake (1 microg day(-1)kg(-1) bw). The daily intake of Hg and As through rice was much lower than the tolerable daily intakes, but bioaccumulation of Hg through the food chain and intake of As from other food stuff should also be of concern.
18289771	Present study explored the adsorptive characteristics of Indigo Carmine (IC) dye from aqueous solution onto rice husk ash (RHA). Batch experiments were carried out to determine the influence of parameters like initial pH (pH(0)), contact time (t), adsorbent dose (m) and initial concentration (C(0)) on the removal of IC. The optimum conditions were found to be: pH(0)=5.4, t=8h and m=10.0 g/l. The pseudo-second-order kinetic model represented the adsorption kinetics of IC on to RHA. Equilibrium isotherms were analyzed by Freundlich, Langmuir, Temkin and Redlich-Peterson models using a non-linear regression technique. Adsorption of IC on RHA was favorably influenced by an increase in the temperature of the operation. The positive values of the change in entropy (DeltaS(0)) and heat of adsorption (DeltaH(0)); and the negative value of change in Gibbs free energy (DeltaG(0)) indicate feasible and spontaneous adsorption of IC on to RHA.
18289846	The main objective of the present work consisted in the transfer to the case of the chestnut of a rice fermentative process that carried out to the Japanese traditional way to lead to an alcoholic bagasse, the moromi, capable of obtaining distilled. This way, selection assays of amylolitic Aspergillus oryzae strains and studies of compatibility between microfungi and yeast were carried out. These mixed cultivations were performed operating in batch submerged culture. Later on, using solid state system (chestnut, microfungi, yeast), a fermentative fed-batch process (koji, moto, moromi) was defined. By means of this approach a yield of 70% was reached in the conversion of total carbohydrates in ethanol. Also, the time required by the traditional operation was reduced in half.
18290436	Five land-uses type (soybean-filed, rice-field, abandoned cultivation, artificial forest, natural wetland) were obtained before planting and soil P fractions were determined by a modified Hedley fraction method. The result showed that the content of total P (TP) in natural wetland was higher than other soil. While the proportion of total inorganic P (TPi) in TP of farm land soil was higher than that of wetland. Adversely, the proportion of total organic P (TPo) was higher in wetland and least in rice-field. There was no obvious difference between that of abandoned field and artificial forest. The values of labile inorganic phosphorus (labile Pi) under different land-uses were similar. The contents of Resin-P and NaHCO3-Pi varied at a range of 32-36.3 mg x kg(-1) and 33.77-50.42 mg x kg(-1), respectively. The contents of NaOH-Pi and C.HCl-Pi in farmland were higher than those of wetland, especially in rice-field which was 152.4 mg x kg(-1). But for D.HCl-Pi, the content was higher in wetland with the value of 84.3 mg x kg(-1), and the contents of NaOH-Pi, C. HCl-Pi and D.HCl-Pi in abandoned field and artificial forest were in the middle of the above two land use patterns, which indicated that the restoration of soil P in abandoned farmland tended to approach the level of natural wetland. The value and percentage of Po was decreased greatly with the reclamation of wetland, and the decrease of C. HCl-Po was the most significant in all forms of organic P, and its values in soybean-filed and rice-field were only 25.96% and 19.26% of that in wetland. As the time went by the content of Po in abandoned arable land increased with very slow speed, which indicated that the restoration of wetland after reclamation would need a long time. The distribution of soil P in different P fractions has significant difference for the land-use change in Sanjiang plain.
18290439	Dynamics of DDMS and DDMU in soils with DDT application under rice and ryegrass planting by pot experiment in greenhouse was conducted. Results show that DDE/DDD is slightly increased, and only about 20 ng x g(-1) DDMU or DDMS could be found in ryegrass soil at the end of the experiment. However, the DDD, DDMS and DDMU are formed very rapidly in rice soil. By the 84th day of the experiment of rice planting, DDT residue is 70-80 ng x g(-1), about 2% of the concentration added at the first of the experiment, meanwhile, concentrations of DDD, DDMS and DDMU are increased to the highest level. Concentration of DDMS and DDMU is detected at 28 and 115 ng x g(-1) respectively. On the other hand, above phenomena are not observed in the aged DDT of soils, which implies that submerging could increase degradation of DDT added newly to DDD and DDMS/DDMU, but not for the aged DDT of soils.
18290490	Solid-state fermentation system of rice straw was established with the inoculation of soil microorganism and Phanerochaete chrysosporium. Microbial biomass and community structure were investigated using the phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) technique, and the changes of lignocellulose's degradation rate were also detected during the process. The experimental results show that lignocellulose degradation rate reaches 44% after fermentation. When the total amount of phospholipid fatty acid is separated into indicator phospholipid fatty acids for different groups of microorganisms, these groups show different patterns during the process. Contents of PLFA in gram-positive bacteria, gram-negative and fungi reach their peak value on the sixth day. Gram-positive bacteria have lower contents. The PLFA content ratio of fungi and bacteria is 0.2 - 0.5, so fungi are the main community decomposing lignocellulose. Principal component analysis of the PLFA data show that 18 carbon unsaturated fatty acids are the major fatty acids at the end of the process, which is consistent with the results of indicator phospholipid fatty acids and lignocellulose's degradation rates, so PLFA technique is able to fairly well detect the changes of microbial biomass and community structure in solid-state fermentation system of rice straw.
18291034	Plant non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are encoded by multigene families and possess physiological functions that remain unclear. Our objective was to characterize the complete nsLtp gene family in rice and arabidopsis and to perform wheat EST database mining for nsLtp gene discovery. In this study, we carried out a genome-wide analysis of nsLtp gene families in Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana and identified 52 rice nsLtp genes and 49 arabidopsis nsLtp genes. Here we present a complete overview of the genes and deduced protein features. Tandem duplication repeats, which represent 26 out of the 52 rice nsLtp genes and 18 out of the 49 arabidopsis nsLtp genes identified, support the complexity of the nsLtp gene families in these species. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that rice and arabidopsis nsLTPs are clustered in nine different clades. In addition, we performed comparative analysis of rice nsLtp genes and wheat (Triticum aestivum) EST sequences indexed in the UniGene database. We identified 156 putative wheat nsLtp genes, among which 91 were found in the 'Chinese Spring' cultivar. The 122 wheat non-redundant nsLTPs were organized in eight types and 33 subfamilies. Based on the observation that seven of these clades were present in arabidopsis, rice and wheat, we conclude that the major functional diversification within the nsLTP family predated the monocot/dicot divergence. In contrast, there is no type VII nsLTPs in arabidopsis and type IX nsLTPs were only identified in arabidopsis. The reason for the larger number of nsLtp genes in wheat may simply be due to the hexaploid state of wheat but may also reflect extensive duplication of gene clusters as observed on rice chromosomes 11 and 12 and arabidopsis chromosome 5. Our current study provides fundamental information on the organization of the rice, arabidopsis and wheat nsLtp gene families. The multiplicity of nsLTP types provide new insights on arabidopsis, rice and wheat nsLtp gene families and will strongly support further transcript profiling or functional analyses of nsLtp genes. Until such time as specific physiological functions are defined, it seems relevant to categorize plant nsLTPs on the basis of sequence similarity and/or phylogenetic clustering.
18291129	Visible and short-wave near infrared (Vis/SWNIR) spectroscopy combined with chemometrics was investigated for the fast determination of soluble solids content (SSC) and pH values of rice vinegars. Two hundred and twenty-five samples (45 for each variety) were selected randomly for the calibration set, whereas, 75 samples (15 for each variety) for the validation set, and the remaining 25 samples for the independent set. After some preprocessing, partial least squares (PLS) analysis was implemented for calibration models with different wavelength bands including visible, SWNIR and Vis/SWNIR regions. The best PLS models were achieved with Vis/SWNIR (550-1000 nm) region. Furthermore, different latent variables (5, 6, 7, 8 LVs) were used as inputs of least squares-support vector machine (LS-SVM) to develop the LV-LS-SVM models with grid search technique and RBF kernel. The optimal models were obtained with 6 LVs and they outperformed PLS models. Moreover, effective wavelengths (EWs) were selected according to regression coefficients. The EW-LS-SVM models were developed and an excellent prediction precision was achieved, and the effectiveness of the EWs was also validated. The correlation coefficient (r), root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) and bias for the best prediction by EW-LS-SVM were 0.999, 0.189 and 0.051 for SSC, whereas 0.999, 0.008 and -1.7 x 10(-3) for pH, respectively. The overall results indicated that Vis/SWNIR spectroscopy combined with LS-SVM could be applied as a high precision and fast way for the determination of SSC and pH values of rice vinegars.
18291567	Iron deficiency is a widespread nutrition and health problem in developing countries, causing impairments in physical activity and cognitive development, as well as maternal mortality. Although food fortification and supplementation programmes have been effective in some countries, their overall success remains limited. Biofortification, that is, breeding food crops for higher micronutrient content, is a relatively new approach, which has been gaining international attention recently. We propose a methodology for ex ante impact assessment of iron biofortification, building on a disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) framework. This methodology is applied in an Indian context. Using a large and representative data set of household food consumption, the likely effects of iron-rich rice and wheat varieties are simulated for different target groups and regions. These varieties, which are being developed by an international public research consortium, based on conventional breeding techniques, might be ready for local distribution within the next couple of years. The results indicate sizeable potential health benefits. Depending on the underlying assumptions, the disease burden associated with iron deficiency could be reduced by 19-58%. Due to the relatively low institutional cost to reach the target population, the expected cost-effectiveness of iron biofortification compares favourably with other micronutrient interventions. Nonetheless, biofortification should not be seen as a substitute for other interventions. Each approach has its particular strengths, so they complement one another.
18291601	Retrotransposons are abundant in higher plant genomes. Although retrotransposons associated with plant genes have been identified, little is known about their evolutionary conservation at the level of species and subspecies. In the present study, we investigated the phylogenetic distribution of long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposon, long interspersed nuclear element (LINE) and short interspersed nuclear element (SINE) insertions in six genes in 95 cultivated and wild rice genotypes. These six genes are likely to be functional based on nonsynonymous (Ka) to synonymous (Ks) substitution ratios which were found to be significantly <1. Different conservation patterns of these retrotransposons in genes were observed in cultivated and wild rice species. Four out of seven retrotransposon insertions appear to predate the ancestral Oryza AA genome. Two of these insertions in genes 4 and 5 occurred early in the evolutionary history of Oryza. Two retrotransposon insertions in gene 1 arose after the divergence of Asian cultivated rice from its wild ancestor. Furthermore, the retrotransposon insertion in gene 3 appears to have occurred in the ancestral lineage leading to temperate japonicas. Conservation of retrotransposon insertions in genes in specific groups, species, and lineages might be related to their specific function.
18291602	PEX11 gene family has been shown to be involved in peroxisome biogenesis but very little is known about this gene family in rice. Here we show that five putative PEX11 genes (OsPEX11-1-5) present in rice genome and each contain three conserved motifs. The PEX11 sequences from rice and other species can be classified into three major groups. Among the five rice PEX11 genes, OsPEX11-2 and -3 are most likely duplicated. Expression profile and RT-PCR analysis suggested that the members of PEX11 family in rice had differential expression patterns: OsPEX11-1 and OsPEX11-4 had higher expression levels in leaf tissues than in the other tissues, OsPEX11-2 was detected only in germinated seeds, OsPEX11-3 was expressed predominantly in endosperm and germinated seeds, and OsPEX11-5 was expressed in all the tissues investigated. We also observed that the rice PEX11 genes had differential expression patterns under different abiotic stresses. OsPEX11-1 and OsPEX11-4 were induced by abscisic acid (ABA), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), salt and low nitrogen stress conditions. OsPEX11-3 was responsive to ABA and H2O2 treatments, and OsPEX11-5 was responsive to ABA, H2O2, and salt treatments. However, OsPEX11-2 had no response to any of the stresses. Our results suggest that the rice PEX11 genes have diversification not only in sequences but also in expression patterns under normal and various stress conditions.
18293011	Elucidation of the genetic basis of the control of leaf shape could be of use in the manipulation of crop traits, leading to more stable and increased crop production. To improve our understanding of the process controlling leaf shape, we identified a mutant gene in rice that causes a significant decrease in the width of the leaf blade, termed narrow leaf 7 (nal7). This spontaneous mutation of nal7 occurred during the process of developing advanced back-crossed progeny derived from crosses of rice varieties with wild type leaf phenotype. While the mutation resulted in reduced leaf width, no significant morphological changes at the cellular level in leaves were observed, except in bulli-form cells. The NAL7 locus encodes a flavin-containing monooxygenase, which displays sequence homology with YUCCA. Inspection of a structural model of NAL7 suggests that the mutation results in an inactive enzyme. The IAA content in the nal7 mutant was altered compared with that of wild type. The nal7 mutant overexpressing NAL7 cDNA exhibited overgrowth and abnormal morphology of the root, which was likely to be due to auxin overproduction. These results indicate that NAL7 is involved in auxin biosynthesis.
18293089	Comparative analyses of membrane transport genes revealed many differences in the features of transport homeostasis in eight diverse organisms, ranging from bacteria to animals and plants. In bacteria, membrane-transport systems depend mainly on single genes encoding proteins involved in an ATP-dependent pump and secondary transport proteins that use H(+) as a co-transport molecule. Animals are especially divergent in their channel genes, and plants have larger numbers of P-type ATPase and secondary active transporters than do other organisms. The secondary transporter genes have diverged evolutionarily in both animals and plants for different co-transporter molecules. Animals use Na(+) ions for the formation of concentration gradients across plasma membranes, dependent on secondary active transporters and on membrane voltages that in turn are dependent on ion transport regulation systems. Plants use H(+) ions pooled in vacuoles and the apoplast to transport various substances; these proton gradients are also dependent on secondary active transporters. We also compared the numbers of membrane transporter genes in Arabidopsis and rice. Although many transporter genes are similar in these plants, Arabidopsis has a more diverse array of genes for multi-efflux transport and for response to stress signals, and rice has more secondary transporter genes for carbohydrate and nutrient transport.
18294900	Active research in rice genetics aided by full-genome sequence has generated results to address multiple problems caused by biotic and abiotic stresses. The main challenges are achieving stability of resistance against variable biological agents and defining the genetic basis of traits influenced strongly by genotypexenvironment interactions. As shown in bacterial blight disease, detailed knowledge of host-pathogen interactions has enabled a predictive strategy to combine specific genes to provide durable resistance. Large-effect QTLs conferring tolerance to submergence, salinity, and drought have been identified. Marker-aided incorporation of the submergence tolerance gene into popular rice varieties illustrates how gene discovery can be rapidly converted into useful products. Extensive use of parallel whole-genome expression and mapping analyses is expected to improve our understanding of QTL. To accelerate conversion of discoveries into products, much can be gained by using agronomically proven genotypes and by testing in multiple environments.
18295371	DNA laddering is one of the biochemical processes characteristic of programmed cell death (PCD) both in animals and plants. However, the mechanism of DNA laddering varies in different species, even in different tissues of one organism. In the present study, we used root tip cells of rice, which have been induced by NaCl stress to undergo PCD, to analyze the endonuclease activities of cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts. Two endonucleases, a cytoplasmic of 20kDa (OsCyt20) and a nuclear of 37kDa (OsNuc37), were identified as PCD related. Our results indicated that OsCyt20 is a Ca(2+)/Mg(2+)-dependent nuclease, which is most active at neutral pH, and that OsNuc37 is Zn(2+)-dependent, with a pH optimum of 4.5-6. Both nucleases were induced at the early stage of PCD (2h salt treatment) and exhibited the highest activity approximately 4h after exposure to NaCl, paralleling with the occurrence of DNA laddering. In vitro assays of endonuclease activities further revealed that OsNuc37, a glycoprotein localized in the nucleus, is the executor for DNA laddering. The different effects of both endonucleases on DNA degradation during salt-induced PCD are discussed.
18295810	Cross-sectional entomological surveys were carried out during the 2006 dry and rainy seasons in Lagdo, Cameroon to measure the impact of rice cultivation on malaria transmission and to monitor vector susceptibility to insecticides. Adult anopheline mosquitoes were captured on human volunteers and by pyrethrum spray collections. A total of 4740 mosquitoes was collected during the study. Anopheles arabiensis was the major species and the main malaria vector in all study sites, followed by A. funestus. Malaria transmission was high in the non-irrigated zone of Mayo Mbocki, whereas in the irrigated area of Gounougou it was below detection level during the dry season and high during the rainy season. Insecticide susceptibility tests performed on A. gambiae s.l. populations detected resistance to lambdacyhalothrin and to a lower extent to deltamethrin. All survivors were A. arabiensis. None of the surviving mosquitoes carried the kdr mutation, suggesting an alternative resistance mechanism.
18296293	The vulnerability of large segments of Asia's population to micronutrient deficiency is more a consequence of cultural evolution and demography than of economic inequities. We evolved in a hunter-gatherer lifestyle with vigorous energy expenditure, wide dietary variety and a nutrient-dense diet (meat, viscera), and wound up 10,000 years ago as agriculturalists cultivating cereal and tuber crops for 70% of our dietary calories. Obtaining rice, maize and wheat is less energy intensive than needed for hunters' fare, while grains are distinctly less rich in available vitamins and minerals. Recurrent infectious episodes, transmitted in crowded societies, further deplete micronutrient nutriture. A fast-track option to address historically unprecedented life conditions includes chemical- or bio-fortification of ubiquitous condiments or widely consumed staples. With little or no change in habitual eating individuals will consume recommended micronutrient intakes and uptakes. Generous intakes of nutrients such as vitamin A and zinc counteract the adverse environmental effects on quality of life and survival in poverty situations. One size may not fit all, and over-consumption of certain micronutrients in heterogeneous societies is to be avoided. For the rice bowl to support the descendants of the caveman in the third millennium requires both imagination and technological ingenuity.
18296301	With rapidly changing dietary environment, dietary guidelines for Koreans were revised and relevant action guides were developed. First, the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee was established with experts and government officials from the fields of nutrition, preventive medicine, health promotion, agriculture, education and environment. The Committee set dietary goals for Koreans aiming for a better nutrition state of all after a thorough review and analysis of recent information related to nutritional status and/or problems of Korean population, changes in food production/supply, disease pattern, health policy and agricultural policy. Then, the revised dietary guidelines were proposed to accomplish these goals in addition to 6 different sets of dietary action guides to accommodate specific nutrition and health problems of respective age groups. Subsequently, these guidelines and guides were subjected to the focus group review, consumer perception surveys, and a public hearing for general and professional comments. Lastly, the language was clarified in terms of public understanding and phraseology. The revised Dietary guidelines for Koreans are as follows: eat a variety of grains, vegetables, fruits, fish, meat, poultry and dairy products; choose salt-preserved foods less, and use less salt when you prepare foods; increase physical activity for a healthy weight, and balance what you eat with your activity; enjoy every meal, and do not skip breakfast; if you drink alcoholic beverages, do so in moderation; prepare foods properly, and order sensible amounts; enjoy our rice-based diet.
18296343	During the last two decades, the public and private sectors have made substantial research progress internationally toward improving the nutritional value of a wide range of food and feed crops. Nevertheless, significant numbers of people still suffer from the effects of undernutrition. As newly developed crops with nutritionally improved traits come closer to being available to producers and consumers, scientifically sound and efficient processes are needed to assess the safety and nutritional quality of these crops. In 2004, a Task Force of international scientific experts, convened by the International Food Biotechnology Committee (IFBiC) of ILSI, published recommendations for the safety and nutritional assessment of foods and feeds nutritionally improved through modern biotechnology (J. Food Science, 2004, 69:CRH62-CRH68). The comparative safety assessment process is a basic principle in this publication and is the starting point, not the conclusion, of the analysis. Significant differences in composition are expected to be observed in the case of nutritionally enhanced crops and must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The Golden Rice 2 case study will be presented as an example of a food crop nutritionally enhanced through the application of modern biotechnology (i.e., recombinant DNA techniques) to illustrate how the 2004 recommendations provide a robust paradigm for the safety assessment of "real world" examples of improved nutrition crops.
18296349	Angiogenesis means the formation of new blood vessels from preexisting vascular, is of fundamental importance in several pathological states such as tumor growth, rheumatoid arthritis, and diabetic retinopathy. Angiogenesis involves a set of steps, including activation and movement of endothelial cells and tube formation. Control of these steps by drugs or dietary food components is a hopeful approach for the prevention of angiogenic disorders. Based on these backgrounds, we searched the anti-angiogenic food components. As a result, we found that tocotrienol (T3), especially delta, beta, and gamma-T3 has the potent anti-angiogenic activity in vitro and in vivo experiments. T3, which is rich in rice bran and palm oil, inhibited growth factor-induced proliferation, migration and tube formation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. T3 showed inhibition of tumor cell-induced angiogenesis in mouse dorsal air sac (DOS) assay. These results indicated that T3 is a potent anti-angiogenesis compound. Tocopherol (Toc) did not inhibit angiogenesis. The anti-angiogenic mechanism of T3 and Toc was evaluated by western blotting. T3 inhibited activation of growth factor-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase, Akt (protein kinase B), and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), which are located downstream of the various growth factor receptors. T3 suppressed phosphorylation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor 2. These effects were dose-dependent manner. Anti-angiogenic mechanism of T3 mediates inhibition of growth factor induced survival, migration and angiogenesis signals. These findings suggested that T3 may have potential for preventing angiogenic disorders in humans.
1829640	In this study, we characterized cyclodextrin glucanotransferase (CGTase) from Bacillus stearothermophilus in L-ascorbic acid-2-O-alpha-D-glucoside (AA-2G) formation and compared its enzymological properties with those of rat intestinal and rice seed alpha-glucosidases which had the ability to form AA-2G. CGTase formed AA-2G efficiently using alpha-cyclodextrin (alpha-CD) as a substrate and ascorbic acid (AA) as an acceptor. Several AA-2-oligoglucosides were also formed in this reaction mixture, and they could be converted to AA-2G by the additional treatment of glucoamylase. The optimum temperature for AA-2G formation was 70 degrees C and its optimum pH was around 5.0. CGTase also utilized beta- and gamma-CDs, maltooligosaccharides, dextrin, amylose, glycogen and starch as substrates, but not any disaccharides except maltose. CGTase showed the same acceptor specificity as two alpha-glucosidases, whereas its hydrolyzing activity towards AA-2G was very low compared with those of alpha-glucosidases. Cleavage profiles of AA-2-oligoglucosides by CGTase present a possible mechanism for AA-2G formation that CGTase transfers a glucose-hexamer to an acceptor at the first step and then a glucose is stepwisely removed from the non-reducing end of the product through glucoamylase-like action of this enzyme. These results indicate that CGTase is able to synthesize AA-2G more efficiently than rat and rice alpha-glucosidases and utilization of this enzyme makes the mass production of AA-2G possible.
18296698	Gene duplication is a major force in evolution. Here, we analyzed the fate of duplicated genes following the ancient whole-genome duplication (WGD) in rice. Polyploidy-derived duplicated genes were found to be preferentially lost from one of each pair of duplicated chromosomal segments, suggesting that the asymmetric gene loss may result from transcriptome dominance of the ancestral allotetraploid genome. Genes involved in synthesis and catabolism of saccharides were found to be preferentially retained in rice, reflecting different trajectories of duplicated genes formed by polyploidy between rice and Arabidopsis. Further studies demonstrated all 3 catalyzing steps in the starch biosynthesis pathway have polyploidy-derived duplicated genes and one copy in each step forms a dominant pathway in the grain filling-stage rice. The new starch biosynthesis pathway reflects one aspect of the impact of WGD on grass evolution.
18296724	GIGANTEA (GI), CONSTANS (CO) and FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) regulate photoperiodic flowering in Arabidopsis. In rice, OsGI, Hd1 and Hd3a were identified as orthologs of GI, CO and FT, respectively, and are also important regulators of flowering. Although GI has roles in both flowering and the circadian clock, our understanding of its biochemical functions is still limited. In this study, we purified novel OsGI-interacting proteins by using the tandem affinity purification (TAP) method. The TAP method has been used effectively in a number of model species to isolate proteins that interact with proteins of interest. However, in plants, the TAP method has been used in only a few studies, and no novel proteins have previously been isolated by this method. We generated transgenic rice plants and cell cultures expressing a TAP-tagged version of OsGI. After a two-step purification procedure, the interacting proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Seven proteins, including dynamin, were identified as OsGI-interacting proteins. The interaction of OsGI with dynamin was verified by co-immunoprecipitation using a myc-tagged version of OsGI. Moreover, an analysis of Arabidopsis dynamin mutants indicated that although the flowering times of the mutants were not different from those of wild-type plants, an aerial rosette phenotype was observed in the mutants. We also found that OsGI is present in both the nucleus and the cytosol by Western blot analysis and by transient assays. These results indicate that the TAP method is effective for the isolation of novel proteins that interact with target proteins in plants.
18296886	An herbal extract mixture and yogurt added to the herbal extract mixture were tested for their protective and therapeutic effects on ethanol-induced liver injury. The herbal extract mixture, yogurt and commercial drugs were used for treatment for two weeks prior to administering a single oral dose of ethanol (3 g/kg body weight). The herbal extract mixture and yogurt added to the herbal extract mixture were found to provide protection against ethanol-induced toxicity comparable to the commercial drug treatment, according to the serum and histopathological analysis. It was also shown that co-treatment with herbal extract mixture and yogurt against a triple oral dose of ethanol (2 g/kg body weight, over one week) provided protection against ethanol toxicity. After the initial set of experiments, the herbal extract mixture and yogurt treatments were extended for three more weeks. When compared to the positive control, further treatment with both the herbal extract and yogurt significantly reduced liver injury and resulted in a lower grade of lipid deposition.
18297310	Studies were conducted in Mwea Rice Scheme, Kenya during the period April 2005 and January 2007 to determine the host-feeding pattern of culicine mosquitoes. Mosquitoes were collected indoors and outdoors and tested for human, bovine, goat, and donkey blood meals by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay. A total of 1,714 blood-engorged samples comprising Culex quinquefasciatus Say (96.1%), Culex annulioris Theobald (1.8%), Culex poicilipes Theobald (0.9%), Aedes cuminsi Theobald (1.0%), Aedes taylori Edwards (0.1%), and Mansonia africana Theobald (0.1%) were tested. Except for A. taylori, in which the single blood meal tested was of bovine origin, the other species fed mostly on both bovine (range 73.3-100%) and goats (range 50-100%). Donkeys were also common hosts for all species (range 19.4-23.5%) except A. taylori and M. africana. C. quinquefasciatus was the only species containing human blood meals (0.04), and indoor collected populations of this species had significantly higher frequency of human blood meals (9.8%) compared with outdoor-collected populations (3.0%). Mixed blood feeding was dominant among culicine species comprising 50.0%, 73.3%, 73.5%, 80.6%, and 94.1% of the samples for M. africana, C. poicilipes, C. quinquefasciatus, C. annulioris, and A. cuminsi, respectively. Ten mixed blood meal combinations including a mixture of all the four hosts were observed in C. quinquefasciatus, compared to one blood meal combination for M. Africana, and two combinations for C. poicilipes, C. annulioris, and A. cuminsi. Mixed bovine and goat blood meal was the most common combination among the five culicine species followed by a mixture of donkey, bovine, and goat blood meals. We conclude that culicine species in Mwea are least likely to be vectors of lymphatic filariasis due to their high "preference" for livestock over human hosts, but they present an increased risk for arbovirus transmission particularly Rift Valley Fever virus, in which domestic animals serve as amplification hosts.
18297398	Chinese toad, Bufo bufo gargarizans, is frequently found in rice fields, muddy ponds, wetlands and other aquatic ecosystems in China. Because of its habitat, it has many chances of being exposed to pesticides, such as acetochlor, butachlor, chlorimuron-ethyl, and paraquat, which are extensively used in rice or cereal fields. Amphibians may serve as model organisms for determining the genotoxic effects of pollutants contaminating these areas. In the present study DNA damage was evaluated in the Chinese toad using the comet assay, as a potential tool for the assessment of ecogenotoxicity. The first step was to determine the acute toxicity of the above-mentioned herbicides. In acute tests, tadpoles were exposed to a series of relatively high concentrations of acetochlor, butachlor, chlorimuron-ethyl, and paraquat for 96 h. The LC(50)(96 h) of acetochlor, butachlor, chlorimuron-ethyl and paraquat were measured as 0.76, 1.32, 20.1 and 164 mg l(-1), respectively. Also, negative effects on the behavior of tadpoles were observed with acetochlor, butachlor, and paraquat. Secondly, the comet assay was used for detecting DNA damage in Chinese toad tadpoles exposed to sublethal concentrations of four herbicides. Significant (P < 0.05) concentration-dependent increase in DNA damage (as indicated by tail length, tail moment, olive tail moment) were observed from erythrocytes of tadpoles exposed to sublethal concentrations of acetochlor, butachlor, paraquat, and methyl methanesulfonate, except chlorimuron-ethyl. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the use of Bufo bufo gargarizans for genotoxicity assessment of herbicides.
18297896	Iron-fortification programs are efficacious and effective provided recent guidelines are followed: the iron compound is carefully chosen and its level in the food is based on target population requirements, the amount lacking in the diet, and the iron bioavailability of the diet and the compound. For monitoring, serum ferritin and transferrin receptor should be included in addition to hemoglobin. Thus, recent studies of provision of iron-fortified salt to children in Morocco, rice to children in India, wheat flour to women in Thailand, and fish sauce in Vietnam have demonstrated efficacy and effectiveness. All were in nonmalarious areas, and intestinal parasites were uncommon except in India, where the children were dewormed. C-reactive protein was used to eliminate high ferritin values due to infection. An efficacy study of iron-fortified salt in dewormed school-aged children in Cte d'Ivoire, where the prevalence of malaria parasitemia was 55%, found no change in hemoglobin after 6 months, but serum ferritin increased and transferrin receptor decreased significantly, and the increase in body iron and estimated iron absorbed compared favorably with the results of a study of similar design in Morocco, where the prevalence of iron-deficiency anemia decreased from 30% to 5% after 10 months. Hence, iron-fortification programs in malarious areas may not decrease anemia prevalence but will improve iron status and, presumably, iron-dependent health outcomes. Eight studies in nonmalarious areas, all but one in infants receiving iron-fortified formula, have found no evidence of increase in infections and some evidence of a decrease in respiratory infection. There have been no studies in malarious areas.
18298013	Rice cultivation contains several tasks and workers were compelled to adopt some harmful and awkward posture during performing those tasks. These type repetitive jobs may be related to occupational health hazards like musculoskeletal disorder (MSD). In the present investigation different MSD related problems of the workers have been assessed and also identify the socioeconomic status of the farmers considering the issues of community health development. In this connection a simple and easily applicable questionnaire technique has been apply in the agricultural field during performing rice cultivation tasks. The results showed that a large number of workers could not complete their primary education (33.0% to 43.0%) and remained below the poverty line (91.3%). From the MSD assessment lower back problem was prevalent (48.8%) among the workers when all rice cultivation tasks were consider together, but it was extremely prevalent in reaping job (92.0%) and transplantation job (84.0%). It was concluded that MSD among the workers might be related to the stressful work posture, long duration jobs, nature of jobs and use of ill-fitted hand tools. So, some free-hand exercise, proper work-rest scheduled and awareness program may be helpful for reducing the MSD and proper handling of hand tools.
18298068	Protoporphyrinogen oxidase (Protox, EC 1.3.3.4) has been identified as one of the most important action targets of herbicides. To search for novel Protox inhibitors, a series of title compounds 1, 2, and 3 were designed and synthesized by introducing three types of pharmacophores, cyclic imide, phenylurea, and (E)-methyl 2-methoxyimino-2- o-tolylacetate, into the scaffold of triazolinone. The bioassay results indicated that the resulting cyclic imide-type triazolinones 1 displayed much better herbicidal activities than phenylurea-type triazolinones 2. Most fortunately, compound 3, methyl 2-[3-methyl-(2-fluoro-4-chloro-5-ethylsulfonamidephenyl)-4,5-dihydro-5-oxo-1 H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]methylenephenyl-2-(E)-methoxyiminoacetate, was found to be the most promising candidate due to its comparable herbicidal activity at 75-150 g of active ingredient/ha with the commercial product sulfentrazone. On the basis of test results of herbicidal spectrum and crop selectivity, compound 3 could be developed as a postemergent herbicide used for the control of broadleaf weeds in rice fields.
18298455	To facilitate a cost-effective preparation of spore inoculum with good capacity for gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) production from Mucor rouxii. Sporangiospore production, mycelial growth ability and fatty acid composition of M. rouxii were determined. Compared with fungal cultivation on solid semi-synthetic media, high spore production was achieved from M. rouxii grown on rice grains, particularly polished rice (30.7 g kg(-1) initial substrate). Variations in the fatty acid profiles were found in the spores grown on different types of solid media, whereas the spores obtained at different ages from cultivated polished rice showed a similar fatty acid profile. Using the inocula from different spore-forming media and culture ages, and low temperature storage, not much change in the vegetative growth of submerged cultures or fatty acid composition of mycelia was observed. The spores generated on polished rice exhibited a high performance for GLA production. Age of spore and timing of spore storage at low temperature did not affect on fatty acid profile of the mycelial cultures. The simple, low cost method of inoculum preparation can be applied for large-scale production of GLA-rich oils, which reduce a time constraint and variation in fatty acid composition.
18298667	The rth3 (roothairless 3) mutant is specifically affected in root hair elongation. We report here the cloning of the rth3 gene via a PCR-based strategy (amplification of insertion mutagenized sites) and demonstrate that it encodes a COBRA-like protein that displays all the structural features of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor. Genes of the COBRA family are involved in various types of cell expansion and cell wall biosynthesis. The rth3 gene belongs to a monocot-specific clade of the COBRA gene family comprising two maize and two rice genes. While the rice (Oryza sativa) gene OsBC1L1 appears to be orthologous to rth3 based on sequence similarity (86% identity at the protein level) and maize/rice synteny, the maize (Zea mays L.) rth3-like gene does not appear to be a functional homolog of rth3 based on their distinct expression profiles. Massively parallel signature sequencing analysis detected rth3 expression in all analyzed tissues, but at relatively low levels, with the most abundant expression in primary roots where the root hair phenotype is manifested. In situ hybridization experiments confine rth3 expression to root hair-forming epidermal cells and lateral root primordia. Remarkably, in replicated field trials involving near-isogenic lines, the rth3 mutant conferred significant losses in grain yield.
18298719	The physical attributes, chemical composition, and physicochemical properties of 2 medium-grain rice cultivars from Arkansas (Bengal, Medark) and from California (M202, M204) were compared when grown in their respective locations and grown together in Arkansas to better understand the impacts of heredity and environment on medium-grain rice quality. Variations existed in grain dimensions, particularly length distribution, among cultivars and between crop years. When grown separately, the Arkansas cultivars tended to have higher protein and lipid contents but lower amylose contents than the California cultivars. M204 contained a significantly higher apparent amylose content (21.0%) compared with the other 3 cultivars (14.3% to 16.4%). The Arkansas rice cultivars exhibited higher pasting and gelatinization temperatures and produced harder gels and less sticky cooked rice. However, when the 4 cultivars were grown together in Arkansas, differences in protein and amylose contents, gelatinization and pasting properties, and cooked rice texture decreased. This study demonstrated that genetics, location, and crop year all contributed to variations in rice chemical and physical characteristics.
18298833	Gene conversion causes a non-reciprocal transfer of genetic information between similar sequences. Gene conversion can both homogenize genes and recruit point mutations thereby shaping the evolution of multigene families. In the rice genome, the large number of duplicated genes increases opportunities for gene conversion. To characterize gene conversion in rice, we have defined 626 multigene families in which 377 gene conversions were detected using the GENECONV program. Over 60% of the conversions we detected were between chromosomes. We found that the inter-chromosomal conversions distributed between chromosome 1 and 5, 2 and 6, and 3 and 5 are more frequent than genome average (Z-test, P < 0.05). The frequencies of gene conversion on the same chromosome decreased with the physical distance between gene conversion partners. Ka/Ks analysis indicates that gene conversion is not tightly linked to natural selection in the rice genome. To assess the contribution of segmental duplication on gene conversion statistics, we determined locations of conversion partners with respect to inter-chromosomal segment duplication. The number of conversions associated with segmentation is less than ten percent. Pseudogenes in the rice genome with low similarity to Arabidopsis genes showed greater likelihood for gene conversion than those with high similarity to Arabidopsis genes. Functional annotations suggest that at least 14 multigene families related to disease or bacteria resistance were involved in conversion events. The evolution of gene families in the rice genome may have been accelerated by conversion with pseudogenes. Our analysis suggests a possible role for gene conversion in the evolution of pathogen-response genes.
18299194	For the development of new fungicides against rice blast, the quantitative structural-activity relationship (QSAR) analyses for fungicidal activities of thiazoline derivatives were carried out using multiple linear regression (MLR) and neural network (NN). We have studied the substituent effects at para site of R(1) and at three sites (ortho, meta, or para) of R(2) aromatic rings in compounds. The results of MLR and NN analyses in the training set of Set-3 showed good correlations (r(2) values of 0.829 and 0.966, respectively) between the descriptors and the fungicidal activities. Five descriptors including the non-overlap steric volume SV(R2C2)), Connolly surface area SA(R1), hydrophobicity Sigma pi(R2), and Hammett substituent constants (sigma(pR1) and sigma(mR2)) were selected as important factors of fungicidal activities. Although the descriptors of optimum MLR model were used in NN, the results were improved by NN. This means that the descriptors used in MLR model include non-linear relationships.
18299247	The ABC superfamily comprises both membrane-bound transporters and soluble proteins involved in a broad range of processes, many of which are of considerable agricultural, biotechnological and medical potential. Completion of the Arabidopsis and rice genome sequences has revealed a particularly large and diverse complement of plant ABC proteins in comparison with other organisms. Forward and reverse genetics, together with heterologous expression, have uncovered many novel roles for plant ABC proteins, but this progress has been accompanied by a confusing proliferation of names for plant ABC genes and their products. A consolidated nomenclature will provide much-needed clarity and a framework for future research.
18299715	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of oral administration of transglucosidase (TG) on postprandial glucose concentrations in healthy subjects. A randomized placebo-controlled three-way crossover trial was separated by a washout period of more than 3 days. Twenty-one normal healthy volunteers, aged 30-61 years old (17 males and 4 females) were selected for this study. The subjects' health was assessed as normal by prestudy screening. All subjects received 3 types of test meals (3 rice balls: protein, 14.4 g; fat, 2.1 g; and carbohydrate, 111 g: total energy, 522 kcal) with 200 ml water in which 0 mg, 150 mg, or 300 mg of TG was dissolved. Blood samples for estimating plasma glucose and insulin concentrations were collected before and every 30 min after the experiment. As compared to no TG treatment, TG administration tended to prevent a postprandial increase in plasma glucose (p = 0.069: 150 mg of TG vs control) but there were no significant difference among three groups. With regard to the 17 subjects who were suggested to have impaired glucose tolerance, TG significantly decreased the postprandial blood glucose (p<0.05: 150 mg and 300 mg of TG vs control) and marginally decreased insulin concentrations (p = 0.099: 300 mg of TG vs control). These results suggest that TG may be useful for preventing the progression of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
18300429	The Agreement/Tense Omission Model (ATOM) predicts that English-speaking children will show similar patterns of provision across different tense-marking morphemes (Rice, Wexler & Hershberger, 1998). The aim of the present study was to test this prediction by examining provision rates for third person singular present tense and first and third person singular forms of copula BE and auxiliary BE in longitudinal data from eleven English-speaking children between the ages of 1;10 and 3;0. The results show, first, that there were systematic differences in the provision rates of the different morphemes; second, that there were systematic differences in the rate at which all of the three morphemes were provided with pronominal and lexical subjects; and, third, that there were systematic differences in the rate at which copula BE and auxiliary BE were provided with the third person singular pronominal subjects It and He and the first person singular subject pronoun I. These results replicate those of Wilson (2003), while controlling for some possible objections to Wilson's analysis. They thus provide further evidence against the generativist view that children's rates of provision of different tense-marking morphemes are determined by a single underlying factor, and are consistent with the constructivist view that children's rates of provision reflect the gradual accumulation of knowledge about tense marking, with much of children's early knowledge being embedded in lexically specific constructions.
18300717	Several dietary factors have been associated with risk of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in case-control studies, but no prospective studies have investigated diet and ALS. We prospectively assessed the association of selected foods and beverages with ALS mortality among participants of the Cancer Prevention Study II, a cohort of over 1 million men and women enrolled in 1982. Habitual diet was assessed with a 44-item food frequency questionnaire. Participant follow-up was conducted from 1989 through 2002 for ALS mortality. During the follow-up period, 862 cohort participants died of ALS. The strongest finding was an inverse association between chicken consumption and risk of ALS (P for trend = 0.0006). We also observed an increased risk of ALS among study participants with a high consumption of brown rice/whole wheat/barley (P for trend = 0.006) and decaffeinated coffee (P for trend = 0.01), and a decreased risk of ALS for high consumption of tea (P for trend = 0.02) and French fries (P for trend = 0.02); however, none of these latter associations remained significant after adjusting for multiple comparisons. Overall, these results do not provide convincing evidence that the investigated food items are related to ALS mortality. The association observed between chicken consumption and ALS mortality should be assessed in other studies.
18301915	Maize (Zea mays ssp. mays L.) was domesticated from teosinte (Z. mays L. ssp. parviglumis Iltis & Doebley), a plant requiring short day photoperiods to flower. While photoperiod sensitive landraces of maize exist, post-domestication breeding included efforts to grow maize in a broad range of latitudes. Thus, modern maize is often characterized as day-neutral because time to flower is relatively unaffected by photoperiod. We report the first identification of maize constans of Zea mays1 (conz1), a gene with extensive sequence homology to photoperiod genes CONSTANS (CO) in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh.) and Heading date1 (Hd1) in rice (Oryza sativa L.). conz1 maps to a syntenous chromosomal location relative to Hd1. Additionally, conz1 and two maize homologs of another photoperiod gene exhibit diurnal expression patterns notably similar to their Arabidopsis and rice homologs. The expression pattern of conz1 in long days is distinct from that observed in short days, suggesting that maize is able to discern variations in photoperiod and respond with differential expression of conz1. We offer models to reconcile the differential expression of conz1 with respect to the photoperiod insensitivity exhibited by temperate inbreds.
18302749	Although malaria disappeared from southern France more than 60 years ago, suspicions of recent autochthonous transmission in the French Mediterranean coast support the idea that the area could still be subject to malaria transmission. The main potential vector of malaria in the Camargue area, the largest river delta in southern France, is the mosquito Anopheles hyrcanus (Diptera: Culicidae). In the context of recent climatic and landscape changes, the evaluation of the risk of emergence or re-emergence of such a major disease is of great importance in Europe. When assessing the risk of emergence of vector-borne diseases, it is crucial to be able to characterize the arthropod vector's spatial distribution. Given that remote sensing techniques can describe some of the environmental parameters which drive this distribution, satellite imagery or aerial photographs could be used for vector mapping. In this study, we propose a method to map larval and adult populations of An. hyrcanus based on environmental indices derived from high spatial resolution imagery. The analysis of the link between entomological field data on An. hyrcanus larvae and environmental indices (biotopes, distance to the nearest main productive breeding sites of this species i.e., rice fields) led to the definition of a larval index, defined as the probability of observing An. hyrcanus larvae in a given site at least once over a year. Independent accuracy assessments showed a good agreement between observed and predicted values (sensitivity and specificity of the logistic regression model being 0.76 and 0.78, respectively). An adult index was derived from the larval index by averaging the larval index within a buffer around the trap location. This index was highly correlated with observed adult abundance values (Pearson r = 0.97, p < 0.05). This allowed us to generate predictive maps of An. hyrcanus larval and adult populations from the landscape indices. This work shows that it is possible to use high resolution satellite imagery to map malaria vector spatial distribution. It also confirms the potential of remote sensing to help target risk areas, and constitutes a first essential step in assessing the risk of re-emergence of malaria in southern France.
18302796	Information on more than 35 000 full-length Oryza sativa cDNAs, together with associated microarray gene expression data collected under various treatment conditions, has made it feasible to identify motifs that are conserved in gene promoters and may act as cis-regulatory elements with key roles under the various conditions. We have developed a novel tool that searches for cis-element candidates in the upstream, downstream, or coding regions of differentially regulated genes. The tool first lists cis-element candidates by motif searching based on the supposition that if there are cis-elements playing important roles in the regulation of a given set of genes, they will be statistically overrepresented and will be conserved. Then it evaluates the likelihood scores of the listed candidate motifs by association rule analysis. This strategy depends on the idea that motifs overrepresented in the promoter region could play specific roles in the regulation of expression of these genes. The tool is designed so that any biological researchers can use it easily at the publicly accessible Internet site http://hpc.irri.cgiar.org/tool/nias/ces. We evaluated the accuracy and utility of the tool by using a dataset of auxin-inducible genes that have well-studied cis-elements. The test showed the effectiveness of the tool in identifying significant relationships between cis-element candidates and related sets of genes. The tool lists possible cis-element motifs corresponding to genes of interest, and it will contribute to the deeper understanding of gene regulatory mechanisms in plants.
18303117	Controversy regarding genetically modified (GM) plants and their potential impact on human health contrasts with the tacit acceptance of other plants that were also modified, but not considered as GM products (e.g., varieties raised through conventional breeding such as mutagenesis). What is beyond the phenotype of these improved plants? Should mutagenized plants be treated differently from transgenics? We have evaluated the extent of transcriptome modification occurring during rice improvement through transgenesis versus mutation breeding. We used oligonucleotide microarrays to analyze gene expression in four different pools of four types of rice plants and respective controls: (i) a gamma-irradiated stable mutant, (ii) the M1 generation of a 100-Gy gamma-irradiated plant, (iii) a stable transgenic plant obtained for production of an anticancer antibody, and (iv) the T1 generation of a transgenic plant produced aiming for abiotic stress improvement, and all of the unmodified original genotypes as controls. We found that the improvement of a plant variety through the acquisition of a new desired trait, using either mutagenesis or transgenesis, may cause stress and thus lead to an altered expression of untargeted genes. In all of the cases studied, the observed alteration was more extensive in mutagenized than in transgenic plants. We propose that the safety assessment of improved plant varieties should be carried out on a case-by-case basis and not simply restricted to foods obtained through genetic engineering.
18304330	Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
18304353	We describe the establishment and analysis of a genus-wide comparative framework composed of 12 bacterial artificial chromosome fingerprint and end-sequenced physical maps representing the 10 genome types of Oryza aligned to the O. sativa ssp. japonica reference genome sequence. Over 932 Mb of end sequence was analyzed for repeats, simple sequence repeats, miRNA and single nucleotide variations, providing the most extensive analysis of Oryza sequence to date.
18304453	Flavones are synthesized from flavanones through the action of flavone synthases (FNSs). There are two FNSs, FNS I and II. FNS I is a soluble dioxygenase present in members of the Apiaceae family and FNS II is a membrane bound cytochrome P450 enzyme that has been identified in numerous plant species. In this study, we cloned OsFNS I-1 from rice by RTPCR, expressed it in E. coli, and purified the recombinant protein. By NMR analysis, we found that OsFNS I-1 converted the flavanone (2S)-naringenin into the flavone, apigenin. Moreover, we found that the cofactors oxoglutarate, FeSO(4), ascorbate and catalase are required for this reaction. OsFNS I-1 encodes a flavone synthase I. This is the first type I FNS I found outside of the Apiaceae family.
18304456	The full-length cDNA of CaAbsi1 encodes a presumptive protein of 134 amino acid residues that has homology to a putative zinc finger protein in its C-terminus. The deduced amino acid sequence has 50% homology to Oryza sativa NP001049-274, the function of which is unknown. Expression of CaAbsi1 was reduced in response to inoculation of non-host pathogens. On the other hand it was induced one hour after exposure to high concentrations of NaCl or mannitol, and six hours after transfer to low temperature. Induction also occurred in response to oxidative stress, methyl viologen, hydrogen peroxide and abscisic acid. Our results suggest that CaAbsi1 plays a role in multiple responses to wounding and abiotic stresses.
18304632	Quinclorac bensulfuron-methyl is a mixed herbicide widely used on paddy rice field to effectively control barnyard grass and most broad-leaved grasses and sedges. We analyzed superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities in the quinclorac-highly degrading strain Stenotrophomonas maltophilia WZ2 and Gram-negative standard strain Escherichia coli K12 in an attempt to understand antioxidant enzymes in bacteria are produced in response to quinclorac or bensulfuron-methyl, which increases the virulence of the bacteria. MnSOD and two additional catalase isozymes were induced by quinclorac or bensulfuron-methyl in S. maltophilia WZ2, but not in E. coli K12. Quinclorac turned out to be a more sensitive inducer of SOD, whereas bensulfuron-methyl is a more sensitive one of catalase. A mixture of both has effects similar to quinclorac. Results indicate that catalase has a much weakly role in the defense against quinclorac or bensulfuron-methyl induced oxidative stress, whereas SOD could be critical.
18304686	In rural Xuanwei County, China, the high incidence of lung cancer is attributable largely to burning smoky coal indoors for heating and cooking without adequate ventilation. Such burning generates very high levels of indoor air pollutants, including carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which could contaminate foodstuffs in the home. Thus, residents could be exposed to carcinogenic coal emissions not only via inhalation but also via ingestion of these foodstuffs. A population-based case-control study of 498 lung cancer patients and 498 controls was conducted from 1985 through 1990 in Xuanwei. The interviewer-administered study questionnaire queried the frequency of food items commonly consumed in this region. Overall and sex-specific multiple logistic regression models were constructed to estimate Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for consumption of these foods. Intake of rice, green vegetables, mushrooms and fresh meat was associated with an increased risk of lung cancer. In contrast, intake of corn, buckwheat, radishes, peppers, melons, pickled vegetables, and salt-preserved meats was associated with reduced risk. The detrimental effect of ingesting green vegetables (OR, 2.39; 95% CI, 1.28-4.48) is consistent with previous reports. These findings suggest that in Xuanwei, food contamination by environmental polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons may be an important risk factor for lung cancer, and that differential contamination of foods by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons possibly explained the different associations with lung cancer risk.
18305970	The response of a grass halophyte Spartina alterniflora at early stages of salt stress was investigated through generation and systematic analysis of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from both leaf and root tissues. Random EST sequencing produced 1,227 quality ESTs, which were clustered into 127 contigs, and 368 were singletons. Of the 495 unigenes, 27% represented genes for stress response. Comparison of the 368 singletons against the Oryza sativa gene index showed that >85% of these genes had similarity with the rice unigenes. Moreover, the phylogenetic analysis of an EST similar to myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase of Spartina and some selected grasses and halophytes showed closeness of Spartina with maize and rice. Transcript abundance analysis involving eight known genes of various metabolic pathways and nine transcription factor genes showed temporal and tissue-dependent variation in expression under salinity. Reverse northern analysis of a few selected unknown and ribosomal genes exhibited much higher abundance of transcripts in response to salt stress. The results provide evidence that, in addition to several unknown genes discovered in this study, genes involved in ion transport, osmolyte production, and house-keeping functions may play an important role in the primary responses to salt stress in this grass halophyte.
18306054	Rice tungro is a viral disease seriously affecting rice production in South and Southeast Asia. Tungro is caused by the simultaneous infection in rice of Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV), a double-stranded DNA virus and Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV), a single-stranded RNA virus. To apply the concept of RNA-interference (RNAi) for the control of RTBV infection, transgenic rice plants expressing DNA encoding ORF IV of RTBV, both in sense as well as in anti-sense orientation, resulting in the formation of double-stranded (ds) RNA, were raised. RNA blot analysis of two representative lines indicated specific degradation of the transgene transcripts and the accumulation of small molecular weight RNA, a hallmark for RNA-interference. In the two transgenic lines expressing ds-RNA, different resistance responses were observed against RTBV. In one of the above lines (RTBV-O-Ds1), there was an initial rapid buildup of RTBV levels following inoculation, comparable to that of untransformed controls, followed by a sharp reduction, resulting in approximately 50-fold lower viral titers, whereas the untransformed controls maintained high levels of the virus till 40 days post-inoculation (dpi). In RTBV-O-Ds2, RTBV DNA levels gradually rose from an initial low to almost 60% levels of the control by 40 dpi. Line RTBV-O-Ds1 showed symptoms of tungro similar to the untransformed control lines, whereas line RTBV-O-Ds2 showed extremely mild symptoms.
18307768	Microarray technology makes it possible to identify changes in gene expression of an organism, under various conditions. Data mining is thus essential for deducing significant biological information such as the identification of new biological mechanisms or putative drug targets. While many algorithms and software have been developed for analysing gene expression, the extraction of relevant information from experimental data is still a substantial challenge, requiring significant time and skill. MADIBA (MicroArray Data Interface for Biological Annotation) facilitates the assignment of biological meaning to gene expression clusters by automating the post-processing stage. A relational database has been designed to store the data from gene to pathway for Plasmodium, rice and Arabidopsis. Tools within the web interface allow rapid analyses for the identification of the Gene Ontology terms relevant to each cluster; visualising the metabolic pathways where the genes are implicated, their genomic localisations, putative common transcriptional regulatory elements in the upstream sequences, and an analysis specific to the organism being studied. MADIBA is an integrated, online tool that will assist researchers in interpreting their results and understand the meaning of the co-expression of a cluster of genes. Functionality of MADIBA was validated by analysing a number of gene clusters from several published experiments - expression profiling of the Plasmodium life cycle, and salt stress treatments of Arabidopsis and rice. In most of the cases, the same conclusions found by the authors were quickly and easily obtained after analysing the gene clusters with MADIBA.
18308333	The structures of rice BGlu1 beta-glucosidase, a plant beta-glucosidase active in hydrolyzing cell wall-derived oligosaccharides, and its covalent intermediate with 2-deoxy-2-fluoroglucoside have been solved at 2.2 A and 1.55 A resolution, respectively. The structures were similar to the known structures of other glycosyl hydrolase family 1 (GH1) beta-glucosidases, but showed several differences in the loops around the active site, which lead to an open active site with a narrow slot at the bottom, compatible with the hydrolysis of long beta-1,4-linked oligosaccharides. Though this active site structure is somewhat similar to that of the Paenibacillus polymyxa beta-glucosidase B, which hydrolyzes similar oligosaccharides, molecular docking studies indicate that the residues interacting with the substrate beyond the conserved -1 site are completely different, reflecting the independent evolution of plant and microbial GH1 exo-beta-glucanase/beta-glucosidases. The complex with the 2-fluoroglucoside included a glycerol molecule, which appears to be in a position to make a nucleophilic attack on the anomeric carbon in a transglycosylation reaction. The coordination of the hydroxyl groups suggests that sugars are positioned as acceptors for transglycosylation by their interactions with E176, the catalytic acid/base, and Y131, which is conserved in barley BGQ60/beta-II beta-glucosidase, that has oligosaccharide hydrolysis and transglycosylation activity similar to rice BGlu1. As the rice and barley enzymes have different preferences for cellobiose and cellotriose, residues that appeared to interact with docked oligosaccharides were mutated to those of the barley enzyme to see if the relative activities of rice BGlu1 toward these substrates could be changed to those of BGQ60. Although no single residue appeared to be responsible for these differences, I179, N190 and N245 did appear to interact with the substrates.
18308732	Iron is essential for most living organisms, and thus iron deficiency poses a major abiotic stress in crop production. Plants induce iron utilization systems under conditions of low iron availability, but the molecular mechanisms of gene regulation under iron deficiency remain largely unknown. We identified a novel transcription factor of rice and barley, IDEF2, which specifically binds to the iron deficiency-responsive cis-acting element 2 (IDE2) by yeast one-hybrid screening. IDEF2 belongs to an uncharacterized branch of the NAC transcription factor family and exhibits novel properties of sequence recognition. An electrophoretic mobility shift assay and cyclic amplification and selection of targets experiment revealed that IDEF2 predominantly recognized CA(A/C)G(T/C)(T/C/A)(T/C/A) within IDE2 as the core-binding site. IDEF2 transcripts are constitutively present in rice roots and leaves. Repression of the function of IDEF2 by the RNA interference (RNAi) technique and chimeric repressor gene-silencing technology (CRES-T) caused aberrant iron homeostasis in rice. Several genes up-regulated by iron deficiency, including the Fe(II)-nicotianamine transporter gene OsYSL2, were less induced by iron deficiency in the RNAi rice of IDEF2, suggesting that IDEF2 is involved in the regulation of these genes. Many genes with repressed expression in IDEF2 RNAi rice possessed the IDEF2-binding core sites in their promoters, and the flanking sequences were also highly homologous to IDE2. IDEF2 bound to OsYSL2 promoter region containing the binding core site, suggesting direct regulation of OsYSL2 expression. These results reveal novel cis-element/trans-factor interactions functionally associated with iron homeostasis.
18308761	Causes of cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) in plants have been studied for two decades, and mitochondrial chimeric genes have been predicted to induce CMS. However, it is unclear what happens after CMS-associated proteins accumulate in mitochondria. In our previous study of microarray analysis, we found that 140 genes are aberrantly regulated in anthers of CW-type CMS of rice (Oryza sativa L.). In the present study, we investigated DCW11, one of the down-regulated genes in CW-CMS encoding a protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C). DCW11 mRNA was preferentially expressed in anthers, with the highest expression in mature pollen. As predicted by the N-terminal sequence, DCW11 signal peptide-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was localized in mitochondria. Knockdown of DCW11 in wild-type rice by RNA interference caused a major loss of seed-set fertility, without visible defect in pollen development. Since this knockdown phenotype resembled that of CW-CMS, we concluded that the down-regulation of DCW11 is correlated with CW-CMS. This idea was supported by the up-regulation of alternative oxidase 1a (AOX1a), which is known to be regulated by mitochondrial retrograde signaling, in DCW11 knockdown lines. Down-regulation of DCW11 and up-regulation of AOX1a were also observed in two other types of rice CMS. Our result indicates that DCW11 could play a role as a mitochondrial signal transduction mediator in pollen germination.
18309136	Research from around the world has suggested that married women's greatest risk for contracting HIV is from having sexual intercourse with their husbands. On the basis of 6 months of ethnographic research in Hanoi, Vietnam, I argue that the contemporary nature of the HIV epidemic in Hanoi is shaped by 3 interrelated policies implemented in 1986 as part of the government's new economic policy, Doi Moi (Renovation). Together, these policies structure men's opportunities for extramarital sexual relations and encourage wives to acquiesce to their husbands' sexual infidelity, putting both at risk of HIV. I propose 4 structural intervention strategies that address the policies that contribute to men's opportunities for extramarital liaisons and to marital HIV risk.
18309263	The impacts of planted transgenic rice varieties on bacterial communities in paddy soils were monitored using both cultivation and molecular methods. The rice field plot consisted of eighteen subplots planted with two genetically modified (GM) rice and four non-GM rice plants in three replicates. Analysis with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes revealed that the bacterial community structures were quite similar to each other in a given month, suggesting that there were no significant differences in bacterial communities between GM and non- GM rice soils. The bacterial community structures appeared to be generally stable with the seasons, as shown by a slight variation of microbial population levels and DGGE banding patterns over the year. Comparison analysis of 16S rDNA clone libraries constructed from soil bacterial DNA showed that there were no significant differences between GM and non-GM soil libraries but revealed seasonal differences of phyla distribution between August and December. The composition profile of phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA) between GM and non-GM soils also was not significantly different to each other. When soil DNAs were analyzed with PCR by using primers for the bar gene, which was introduced into GM rice, positive DNA bands were found in October and December soils. However, no bar gene sequence was detected in PCR analysis with DNAs extracted from both cultured and uncultured soil bacterial fractions. The result of this study suggested that, in spite of seasonal variations of bacterial communities and persistence of the bar gene, the bacterial communities of the experimental rice field were not significantly affected by cultivation of GM rice varieties.
18309361	The rice seedling blight fungus Rhizopus microsporus harbors endosymbiotic Burkholderia sp. for the production of the virulence factor, the antimitotic agent rhizoxin. Since the toxin highly efficiently blocks mitosis in most eukaryotes, it remained elusive how self-resistance emerged in the fungal host. In this study, rhizoxin sensitivity was systematically correlated with the nature of beta-tubulin sequences in the kingdom Fungi. A total of 49 new beta-tubulin sequences were generated for representative species of Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and Zygomycota. Rhizoxin sensitivity assays revealed two further amino acids at position 100 (Ser-100 and Ala-100), in addition to the known Ile-100 and Val-100, which convey rhizoxin resistance. All sensitive strains feature Asn-100. This hot spot was verified by modeling studies, which support the finding that rhizoxin preferentially interacts with the tubulin molecule in a cavity near position 100. Ancestral character state reconstructions conducted in a Bayesian framework suggest that rhizoxin sensitivity represents the ancestral character state in fungi, and that evolution of rhizoxin resistance took place in the ancestor of extant resistant Zygomycota. These findings support a model according to which endosymbiosis became possible through a parasitism--mutualism shift in insensitive fungi.
18309367	Brachypodium distachyon (L.) Beauv. is a temperate wild grass species; its morphological and genomic characteristics make it a model system when compared to many other grass species. It has a small genome, short growth cycle, self-fertility, many diploid accessions, and simple growth requirements. In addition, it is phylogenetically close to economically important crops, like wheat and barley, and several potential biofuel grasses. It exhibits agricultural traits similar to those of these target crops. For cereal genomes, it is a better model than Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice), the former used as a model for all flowering plants and the latter hitherto used as model for genomes of all temperate grass species including major cereals like barley and wheat. Increasing interest in this species has resulted in the development of a series of genomics resources, including nuclear sequences and BAC/EST libraries, together with the collection and characterization of other genetic resources. It is expected that the use of this model will allow rapid advances in generation of genomics information for the improvement of all temperate crops, particularly the cereals.
18309823	The most important characteristics of Mycoplasma mastitis on dairy farms are described, based on two case studies. Clinical symptoms, diagnostics, epidemiology, and a plan of action are presented. In the herds investigated, Mycoplasma mastitis was characterized by multiple affected quarters unresponsive to treatment with antibiotic and/or anti-inflammatory agents. Most striking were a sandy sediment, brown colouring, and rice-like structure of the milk of affected animals. Clinical symptoms differed in the two affected herds. Diagnosis was based on bacteriological investigation of samples of milk and synovial fluid taken from infected cows. Affected animals were culled immediately, and the herds were monitored by repeated testing of bulk milk samples. It was concluded that a consequence of the increasing size of cattle herds in the Netherlands is that subclinical/clinical Mycoplasma mastitis may be diagnosed more frequently than in the past. In the case of Mycoplasma mastitis, farmers and veterinary practitioners are advised to draw up a plan of action together, incorporating aspects such as diagnostics at cow level, direct culling of affected animals, hygiene during milking, including post-milking teat disinfection, and routine monitoring of bulk milk. Unpasteurized milk should not be given to calves.
18311543	The molecular nature of gene expression during the initiation and progress of diplosporous apomixis is still unknown. Moreover, the basis of the close correlation between diplospory and polyploidy is not clarified yet. A comparative expression analysis was performed based on expressed sequence tags (ESTs) sequencing and differential display in an Eragrostis curvula diplosporous tetraploid genotype (T, 4x apo), a sexual diploid derivative obtained from tissue culture (D, 2x sex) and an artificial sexual tetraploid obtained from the diploid seeds after colchicine treatment (C, 4x sex). From a total of 8,884 unigenes sequenced from inflorescence-derived libraries, 112 (1.26%) showed significant differential expression in individuals with different ploidy level and/or variable reproductive mode. Independent comparisons between plants with different reproductive mode (same ploidy) or different ploidy level (same reproductive mode) allowed the identification of genes modulated in response to diplosporous development or polyploidization, respectively. Surprisingly, a group of genes (Group 3) were differentially expressed or silenced only in the 4x sex plant, presenting similar levels of expression in the 4x apo and the 2x sex genotypes. A group of randomly selected differential genes was validated by QR-PCR. Differential display analysis showed that in general the 4x apo and 4x sex expression profiles were more related and different from the 2x sex one, but confirmed the existence of Group 3-type genes, in both inflorescences and leaves. The possible biological significance for the occurrence of this particular group of genes is discussed. In silico mapping onto the rice genome was used to identify candidates mapping to the region syntenic to the diplospory locus.
18311588	Research undertaken over the last 40 years has identified the irrefutable relationship between the long-term consumption of cadmium (Cd)-contaminated rice and human Cd disease. In order to protect public health and livelihood security, the ability to accurately and rapidly determine spatial Cd contamination is of high priority. During 2001-2004, a General Linear Regression Model Irr-Cad was developed to predict the spatial distribution of soil Cd in a Cd/Zn co-contaminated cascading irrigated rice-based system in Mae Sot District, Tak Province, Thailand (Longitude E 98 degrees 59'-E 98 degrees 63' and Latitude N 16 degrees 67'-16 degrees 66'). The results indicate that Irr-Cad accounted for 98% of the variance in mean Field Order total soil Cd. Preliminary validation indicated that Irr-Cad 'predicted' mean Field Order total soil Cd, was significantly (p < 0.001) correlated (R (2) = 0.92) with 'observed' mean Field Order total soil Cd values. Field Order is determined by a given field's proximity to primary outlets from in-field irrigation channels and subsequent inter-field irrigation flows. This in turn determines Field Order in Irrigation Sequence (Field Order(IS)). Mean Field Order total soil Cd represents the mean total soil Cd (aqua regia-digested) for a given Field Order(IS). In 2004-2005, Irr-Cad was utilized to evaluate the spatial distribution of total soil Cd in a 'high-risk' area of Mae Sot District. Secondary validation on six randomly selected field groups verified that Irr-Cad predicted mean Field Order total soil Cd and was significantly (p < 0.001) correlated with the observed mean Field Order total soil Cd with R (2) values ranging from 0.89 to 0.97. The practical applicability of Irr-Cad is in its minimal input requirements, namely the classification of fields in terms of Field Order(IS), strategic sampling of all primary fields and laboratory based determination of total soil Cd (T-Cd(P)) and the use of a weighed coefficient for Cd (Coeff(W)). The use of primary fields as the basis for Irr-Cad is also an important practical consideration due to their inherent ease of identification and vital role in the classification of fields in terms of Field Order(IS). The inclusion of mean field order soil pH (1:5(water)) to the Irr-Cad model accounted for over 79% of the variation in mean Field Order bio-available (DTPA (diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid)-extractable) soil Cd. Rice is the staple food of countries of the Greater Mekong Sub-region (includes Vietnam, Myanmar, Lao PDR, Thailand and Yunnan Province, China). These countries also have actively and historically mined Zn, Pb, and Cu deposits where Cd is likely to be a potential hazard if un-controlled discharge/runoff enters areas of rice cultivation. As such, it is envisaged that the Irr-Cad model could be applied for Cd hazard assessment and effectively form the basis of intervention options and policy decisions to protect public health, livelihoods, and export security.
18311625	One hundred and fifty-six samples of breakfast cereals were collected from the Canadian retail marketplace over a 3-year period. The samples were analysed for the mycotoxins deoxynivalenol, nivalenol, HT-2 toxin, zearalenone, ochratoxin A, and fumonisins B1 and B2 to contribute to dietary exposure estimates in support of the development of Canadian guidelines for selected mycotoxins in foods. The samples included corn-, oat-, wheat- and rice-based cereals, as well as mixed-grain cereals, and were primarily from North American processors. Overall, deoxynivalenol was the most frequently detected mycotoxin--it was detected in over 40% of all samples analysed. Fumonisins and ochratoxin A were each detected in over 30% of all samples. Zearalenone was detected in over 20% of all samples. Nivalenol and HT-2 toxin were each detected in only one sample. The survey clearly demonstrated regular occurrence of low levels of multiple mycotoxins in breakfast cereals on the Canadian market.
18311920	Zn, Se, and Fe levels in 65 Chinese rice samples were investigated, and the results indicated that these micronutrients contents of rice products from different location varied considerably. The mean contents of Zn, Se and Fe in these rice samples were 21.5+/-1.8, 0.020+/-0.012, and 12.4+/-4.3 mg kg(-1), respectively, which were too low to meet the micronutrient demands for the population feeding on the rice as staple. A field orthogonal experiment L9 (3(4)) was conducted on rice cultivar Wuyunjing 7, to evaluate the effect of Zn, Se, and Fe foliar fertilization on the concentration of these micronutrients, yield, and protein and ash content of rice grain. The results indicated that Zn and Se were the main variables influencing the Zn, Se, and Fe content of rice, and the optimal combination of fertilization for enhancing these micronutrients was 0.90 kg ha(-1) Zn, 0.015 kg ha(-1) Se, and 0.90 kg ha(-1) Fe. Under the optimal application condition, Zn, Se, and Fe content of rice could be significantly increased by 36.7%, 194.1%, and 37.1%, respectively, compared with the control, without affecting grain yield and protein and ash content of rice products. Moreover, in the confirmation experiment on rice cultivar Ninggeng 1, the optimal fertilization could increase the Zn, Se, and Fe content of rice up to 17.4, 0.123, and 14.2 mg kg(-1), respectively.
18312209	The development of an organism represents a complex dynamic process, which is controlled by a network of genes and multiple environmental factors. Programmed cell death (PCD), a physiological cell suicide process, occurs during the development of most organisms and is, typically, a complex dynamic trait. Understanding how genes control this complex developmental process has been a long-standing topic in PCD studies. In this article, we propose a nonparametric model, based on orthogonal Legendre polynomials, to map genes or quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that govern the dynamic features of the PCD process. The model is built under the maximum likelihood-based functional mapping framework and is implemented with the EM algorithm. A general information criterion is proposed for selecting the optimal Legendre order that best fits the dynamic pattern of the PCD process. The consistency of the order selection criterion is established. A nonstationary structured antedependence model (SAD) is applied to model the covariance structure among the phenotypes measured at different time points. The developed model generates a number of hypothesis tests regarding the genetic control mechanism of the PCD process. Extensive simulation studies are conducted to investigate the statistical behavior of the model. Finally, we apply the model to a rice tiller number data set in which several QTLs are identified. The developed model provides a quantitative and testable framework for assessing the interplay between genes and the developmental PCD process, and will have great implications for elucidating the genetic architecture of the PCD process.
18312648	Small RNA-guided gene silencing at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels has emerged as an important mode of gene regulation in plants and animals. Thus far, conventional sequencing of small RNA libraries from rice led to the identification of most of the conserved miRNAs. Deep sequencing of small RNA libraries is an effective approach to uncover rare and lineage- and/or species-specific microRNAs (miRNAs) in any organism. In order to identify new miRNAs and possibly abiotic-stress regulated small RNAs in rice, three small RNA libraries were constructed from control rice seedlings and seedlings exposed to drought or salt stress, and then subjected to pyrosequencing. A total of 58,781, 43,003 and 80,990 unique genome-matching small RNAs were obtained from the control, drought and salt stress libraries, respectively. Sequence analysis confirmed the expression of most of the conserved miRNAs in rice. Importantly, 23 new miRNAs mostly each derived from a unique locus in rice genome were identified. Six of the new miRNAs are conserved in other monocots. Additionally, we identified 40 candidate miRNAs. Allowing not more than 3 mis-matches between a miRNA and its target mRNA, we predicted 20 targets for 9 of the new miRNAs. Deep sequencing proved to be an effective strategy that allowed the discovery of 23 low-abundance new miRNAs and 40 candidate miRNAs in rice.
18312667	Studies were conducted between April 2004 and February 2006 to determine the blood-feeding pattern of Anopheles mosquitoes in Mwea Kenya. Samples were collected indoors by pyrethrum spay catch and outdoors by Centers for Disease Control light traps and processed for blood meal analysis by an Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay. A total of 3,333 blood-fed Anopheles mosquitoes representing four Anopheles species were collected and 2,796 of the samples were assayed, with Anopheles arabiensis comprising 76.2% (n = 2,542) followed in decreasing order by Anopheles coustani 8.9% (n = 297), Anopheles pharoensis 8.2% (n = 272) and Anopheles funestus 6.7% (n = 222). All mosquito species had a high preference for bovine (range 56.3-71.4%) over human (range 1.1-23.9%) or goat (0.1-2.2%) blood meals. Some individuals from all the four species were found to contain mixed blood meals. The bovine blood index (BBI) for An. arabiensis was significantly higher for populations collected indoors (71.8%), than populations collected outdoors (41.3%), but the human blood index (HBI) did not differ significantly between the two populations. In contrast, BBI for indoor collected An. funestus (51.4%) was significantly lower than for outdoor collected populations (78.0%) and the HBI was significantly higher indoors (28.7%) than outdoors (2.4%). Anthropophily of An. funestus was lowest within the rice scheme, moderate in unplanned rice agro-ecosystem, and highest within the non-irrigated agro-ecosystem. Anthropophily of An. arabiensis was significantly higher in the non-irrigated agro-ecosystem than in the other agro-ecosystems. These findings suggest that rice cultivation has an effect on host choice by Anopheles mosquitoes. The study further indicate that zooprophylaxis may be a potential strategy for malaria control, but there is need to assess how domestic animals may influence arboviruses epidemiology before adapting the strategy.
1831269	We have used a transient expression assay in aleurone protoplasts of barley to delineate hormone response elements of the abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive rice gene Rab16A and of the gibberellin A3 (GA3)-responsive barley alpha-amylase gene Amy 1/6-4. Our approach used transcriptional fusions between their 5' upstream sequences and a bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene. A chimeric promoter containing six copies of the -181 to -171 region of Rab 16A fused to a minimal promoter conferred ABA-responsive expression on the reporter gene. Transcription from this ABA response element (GTACGTGGCGC) was unaffected by GA3. A chimeric promoter containing six copies of the -148 to -128 sequence of Amy 1/6-4 fused to the minimal promoter conferred GA3-responsive expression on the reporter gene. Transcription from this GA3 response element (GGCCGATAACAAACTCCGGCC) was repressed by ABA. The effect on transcription from both hormone response elements was orientation-independent, indicating that they function as inducible enhancers in their native genes.
18313167	Salicylic acid (SA) may accelerate the cell death of cadmium-stressed roots to avoid cadmium (Cd) uptake by plants or may play positive roles in protecting the stressed roots from Cd-induced damage. To test these hypotheses, we performed a series of split-root hydroponic experiments with one-half of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Jiahua 1) roots exposed to 50 microM Cd and the other half not exposed. The objectives were to elucidate the effects of SA pretreatment on the time-dependent changes of H(2)O(2) levels in roots, antioxidant defense system in different organs, root cell death and the dynamic distribution of Cd in the plants. In the split-root system, a higher Cd uptake rate was observed in the Cd-stressed portions of roots compared with the treatment with the whole roots exposed to Cd. Furthermore, an appreciable amount of Cd was translocated from the Cd-exposed roots to the unexposed roots and trace amounts of Cd were released into the external solution. The split-root method also caused the two root portions to respond differently to Cd stress. The activities of major antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, SOD; peroxidase, POD; and catalase, CAT) were significantly suppressed in the Cd-treated roots, hence leading to H(2)O(2) burst, lipid peroxidation, cell death and growth inhibition. By contrast, in the non-Cd-treated roots, the activities of enzymes (SOD, CAT, and POD) and root growth were persistently stimulated during the experimental period. The H(2)O(2) accumulation and lipid peroxidation were also induced in the non-Cd-treated roots, but they were significantly lower than those of the Cd-treated roots. The concentrations of glutathione (GSH) and non-protein thiols (NPT) in the Cd-treated roots were significantly higher than those of the untreated roots. SA pretreatment elevated enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants, and the concentrations of GSH and NPT in roots and shoots, hence leading to alleviation of the oxidative damage as indicated by the lowered H(2)O(2) and MDA levels. Furthermore, SA pretreatment mitigated the Cd-induced growth inhibition in both roots and shoots and increased transpiration compared with non-SA-pretreatment under Cd exposure. It is concluded that Cd can be partly transferred from the Cd-exposed roots to Cd-unexposed roots and that cell death can be accelerated in the Cd-stressed roots in response to Cd stress. The SA-enhanced Cd tolerance in rice can be attributed to SA-elevated enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants and NPT, and to SA-regulated Cd uptake, transport and distribution in plant organs.
18313258	Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae is the causal agent of rice bacterial blight. The plant pathogenic bacterium X. oryzae pv. oryzae expresses a type III secretion system that is necessary for both the pathogenicity in susceptible hosts and the induction of the hypersensitive response in resistant plants. This specialized protein transport system is encoded by a 32.18kb hrp (hypersensitive response and pathogenicity) gene cluster. The hrp gene cluster is composed of nine hrp, nine hrc (hrp conserved) and eight hpa (hrp-associated) genes and is controlled by HrpG and HrpX, which are known as regulators of the hrp gene cluster. Before mutational analysis of these hrp genes, the transcriptional linkages of the core region of the hrp gene cluster from hpaB to hrcC of the X. oryzae pv. oryzae KACC10859 was determined and the non-polarity of EZTn5 insertional mutagenesis was demonstrated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Pathogenicity assays of these non-polar hrp mutants were carried out on the susceptible rice cultivar, Milyang-23. According to the results of these assays, all hrp-hrc, except hrpF, and hpaB mutants lost their pathogenicity, which indicates that most hrp-hrc genes encode essential pathogenicity factors. On the other hand, most hpa mutants showed decreased virulence in a different pattern, i.e., hpa genes are not essential but are important for pathogenicity.
18313797	Ethylene-responsive factors (ERFs), composing the largest group of AP2/EREBP transcription factors, are involved in diverse functions and some of them have been identified in plants. However, even in model plants Arabidopsis and rice, most of the genes in this group are functionally unknown yet. Especially in rice, ERF genes involved in ethylene response have not been reported previously. Here, we report a novel member of ERF group in rice, OsERF1 (Ethylene Response Factor gene in Oryza sativa). OsERF1 expressed consistently in different organs of rice and could be up-regulated by ethylene, a plant hormone associated with stress response. Overexpression of OsERF1 in Arabidopsis up-regulated the expression of two known ethylene-responsive genes, PDF1.2 and b-chitinase, and also significantly affected the growth and development of transgenic Arabidopsis. These results suggest the involvement of OsERF1 in ethylene response.
18313975	Plant breeders have long recognized the existence of useful genetic variation in the wild ancestors of our domesticated crop species. In cultivated rice (Oryza sativa), crosses between high-yielding elite cultivars and low-yielding wild accessions often give rise to superior offspring, with wild alleles conferring increased performance in the context of the elite cultivar genetic background. Because the breeding value of wild germplasm cannot be determined by examining the performance of wild accessions, a phylogenetic approach is recommended to determine which interspecific combinations are most likely to be useful in a breeding program. As we deepen our understanding of how genetic diversity is partitioned within and between cultivated and wild gene pools of Oryza, breeders will have increased power to make predictions about the most efficient strategies for utilizing wild germplasm for rice improvement.
18314233	to explore women's experiences of referral to tertiary care on the basis of uncertain ultrasound findings. a qualitative method using Rice and Ezzy's thematic analysis approach. Data were gathered through two in-depth interviews over a six to eight-month period. a total of 20 interviews were conducted among pregnant women, purposively recruited at a tertiary facility. Inclusion criteria were based on detection of an isolated soft marker in an otherwise normal pregnancy. interview data were transcribed and data were subjected to thematic analysis. mothers journeyed through a temporal sequence of adjustment following referral to specialist services. Four distinct phases were identified: realisation; making sense of events; anxious waiting; and having no clear resolution. trends of increasing prenatal surveillance together with advancing technology make this study timely and of global interest. Findings suggest that women identified as 'at risk' before being discharged uneventfully may be prone to attachment issues and a host of other difficulties. The complexities inherent in this experience should be of interest to a broad range of health professionals. An appreciation of this experience may assist midwives and other health professionals to provide more meaningful maternal support to women identified as 'at risk'.
18315540	The SPATULA (SPT) gene is involved in generating the septum, style and stigma: specialized tissues that arise from carpel margins. By matching sequences within the extended bHLH region of AtSPT across species databases, twelve orthologues were identified in eudicots, rice and a gymnosperm. Two conserved structural domains were revealed in addition to the bHLH region: an amphipathic helix and an acidic domain. These are conserved in the tomato orthologue, which can restore carpel function to spt mutants of Arabidopsis. The acidic domain is essential for SPT carpel function, and the amphipathic helix supports it. A bipartite sequence overlapping the bHLH domain is required for nuclear localization, and a mutation in the conserved beta strand adjacent to the bHLH C terminus results in the loss of SPT function. SPT apparently acts as a transcriptional activator, as the addition of the SRDX repression domain phenocopies the spt mutant phenotype. Expression of an artificially activating 35S:SPT-VP16 construct can induce carpelloid properties in sepals, and new defects in the gynoecium. These disruptions are associated with ectopic expression of the STYLISH2 gene, although STYLISH2 expression does not require SPT function. Ectopic expression of unmodified SPT does not induce such changes, implying that SPT acts in association with essential coactivators present only in regions where SPT is normally active. Because the VP16 activation domain can compensate to some extent for the loss of the amphipathic helix and acidic domain, these domains may normally interact with such co-activators.
18315698	Drought-induced growth arrest is a major cause of yield loss in crops and is mediated in part by abscisic acid (ABA). The aim of this study was to identify the cell types targeted by ABA during arrest. As transcription factors ABI3 and ABI5 are essential for ABA-induced growth arrest in Arabidopsis, blast was used to identify OsVP1 and OsABF1 as their structural orthologues in rice (Oryza sativa), and employed RNA in situ hybridization to reveal the cell types accumulating the corresponding transcripts in response to ABA. Exogenous ABA arrested the growth of leaves 1, 2 and 3 in young rice shoots and inhibited secondary cell-wall formation in sclerenchyma, including expression of the cellulose synthase gene OsCesA9. Transcripts for OsVP1, OsABF1 and of the putative target genes OsEm, OsLEA3 and WSI18, increased under ABA, accumulating principally in the cytosol of the major support cells (sclerenchymatous cortical fiber cells and epidermal silica cells) of slowly growing leaf 1. Rapidly growing immature tissues in leaves 2 and 3 accumulated OsABF1, OsEm and WSI18 transcripts in the nuclei of all cells, irrespective of ABA treatment. It is concluded that during arrest of leaf growth, ABA targets support cells in maturing tissues. Target cells in immature tissues remain to be identified.
18315873	The completion of rice genome sequencing has made rice and its wild relatives an attractive system for biological studies. Despite great efforts, phylogenetic relationships among genome types and species in the rice genus have not been fully resolved. To take full advantage of rice genome resources for biological research and rice breeding, we will benefit from the availability of a robust phylogeny of the rice genus. Through screening rice genome sequences, we sampled and sequenced 142 single-copy genes to clarify the relationships among all diploid genome types of the rice genus. The analysis identified two short internal branches around which most previous phylogenetic inconsistency emerged. These represent two episodes of rapid speciation that occurred approximately 5 and 10 million years ago (Mya) and gave rise to almost the entire diversity of the genus. The known chromosomal distribution of the sampled genes allowed the documentation of whole-genome sorting of ancestral alleles during the rapid speciation, which was responsible primarily for extensive incongruence between gene phylogenies and persisting phylogenetic ambiguity in the genus. Random sample analysis showed that 120 genes with an average length of 874 bp were needed to resolve both short branches with 95% confidence. Our phylogenomic analysis successfully resolved the phylogeny of rice genome types, which lays a solid foundation for comparative and functional genomic studies of rice and its relatives. This study also highlights that organismal genomes might be mosaics of conflicting genealogies because of rapid speciation and demonstrates the power of phylogenomics in the reconstruction of rapid diversification.
18315879	The effects of viral infection involve concomitant plant gene variations and cellular changes. A simple system is required to assess the complexity of host responses to viral infection. The genome of the Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is a single-stranded RNA with a simple organisation. It is the most well-known monocotyledon virus model. Several studies on its biology, structure and phylogeography have provided a suitable background for further genetic studies. 12 rice chromosome sequences are now available and provide strong support for genomic studies, particularly physical mapping and gene identification. The present data, obtained through the cDNA-AFLP technique, demonstrate differential responses to RYMV of two different rice cultivars, i.e. susceptible IR64 (Oryza sativa indica), and partially resistant Azucena (O. s. japonica). This RNA profiling provides a new original dataset that will enable us to gain greater insight into the RYMV/rice interaction and the specificity of the host response. Using the SIM4 subroutine, we took the intron/exon structure of the gene into account and mapped 281 RYMV stress responsive (RSR) transcripts on 12 rice chromosomes corresponding to 234 RSR genes. We also mapped previously identified deregulated proteins and genes involved in partial resistance and thus constructed the first global physical map of the RYMV/rice interaction. RSR transcripts on rice chromosomes 4 and 10 were found to be not randomly distributed. Seven genes were identified in the susceptible and partially resistant cultivars, and transcripts were colocalized for these seven genes in both cultivars. During virus infection, many concomitant plant gene expression changes may be associated with host changes caused by the infection process, general stress or defence responses. We noted that some genes (e.g. ABC transporters) were regulated throughout the kinetics of infection and differentiated susceptible and partially resistant hosts. We enhanced the first RYMV/rice interaction map by combining information from the present study and previous studies on proteins and ESTs regulated during RYMV infection, thus providing a more comprehensive view on genes related to plant responses. This combined map provides a new tool for exploring molecular mechanisms underlying the RYMV/rice interaction.
18315884	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens (Hemiptera, Delphacidae), is a serious insect pests of rice plants. Major means of BPH control are application of agricultural chemicals and cultivation of BPH resistant rice varieties. Nevertheless, BPH strains that are resistant to agricultural chemicals have developed, and BPH strains have appeared that are virulent against the resistant rice varieties. Expressed sequence tag (EST) analysis and related applications are useful to elucidate the mechanisms of resistance and virulence and to reveal physiological aspects of this non-model insect, with its poorly understood genetic background. More than 37,000 high-quality ESTs, excluding sequences of mitochondrial genome, microbial genomes, and rDNA, have been produced from 18 libraries of various BPH tissues and stages. About 10,200 clusters have been made from whole EST sequences, with average EST size of 627 bp. Among the top ten most abundantly expressed genes, three are unique and show no homology in BLAST searches. The actin gene was highly expressed in BPH, especially in the thorax. Tissue-specifically expressed genes were extracted based on the expression frequency among the libraries. An EST database is available at our web site. The EST library will provide useful information for transcriptional analyses, proteomic analyses, and gene functional analyses of BPH. Moreover, specific genes for hemimetabolous insects will be identified. The microarray fabricated based on the EST information will be useful for finding genes related to agricultural and biological problems related to this pest.
18316035	The functional analysis of the sodium exchanger SOS1 from wheat, TaSOS1, was undertaken using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a heterologous expression system. The TaSOS1 protein, with significant sequence homology to SOS1 sodium exchangers from Arabidopsis and rice, is abundant in roots and leaves, and is induced by salt treatment. TaSOS1 suppressed the salt sensitivity of a yeast strain lacking the major Na+ efflux systems by decreasing the cellular Na+ content while increasing K+ content. Na+/H+ exchange activity of purified plasma membrane from yeast cells expressing TaSOS1 was higher than controls transformed with empty vector. These results demonstrate that TaSOS1 contributes to plasma membrane Na+/H+ exchange.
18316240	Completion of the genomic sequencing of rice has enhanced the discovery of new genes. Wild rice relatives are good sources for extending the genetic variation of cultivated rice. Reproductive barriers are commonly found in distant crosses of rice and are attracting attention. The combination of genetic analyses and molecular tools has greatly facilitated the molecular cloning of rice genes based on the classical approach and enabled the tracking of dissemination of the alleles for domestication. Basic information for population genetics study in rice is still being collected and is expected to provide an alternative approach for finding new genes. The wide genetic variation available in wild rice relatives and the combination of various genetic approaches will allow the analysis and understanding of genetic variation at the nucleotide sequence level, as well as the discovery of novel alleles by sequence-based approaches.
18316317	Four enzymes, namely, the maize C(4)-specific phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC), the maize C(4)-specific pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK), the sorghum NADP-malate dehydrogenase (MDH), and the rice C(3)-specific NADP-malic enzyme (ME), were overproduced in the mesophyll cells of rice plants independently or in combination. Overproduction individually of PPDK, MDH or ME did not affect the rate of photosynthetic CO(2) assimilation, while in the case of PEPC it was slightly reduced. The reduction in CO(2) assimilation in PEPC overproduction lines remained unaffected by overproduction of PPDK, ME or a combination of both, however it was significantly restored by the combined overproduction of PPDK, ME, and MDH to reach levels comparable to or slightly higher than that of non-transgenic rice. The extent of the restoration of CO(2) assimilation, however, was more marked at higher CO(2) concentrations, an indication that overproduction of the four enzymes in combination did not act to concentrate CO(2) inside the chloroplast. Transgenic rice plants overproducing the four enzymes showed slight stunting. Comparison of transformants overproducing different combinations of enzymes indicated that overproduction of PEPC together with ME was responsible for stunting, and that overproduction of MDH had some mitigating effects. Possible mechanisms underlying these phenotypic effects, as well as possibilities and limitations of introducing the C(4)-like photosynthetic pathway into C(3) plants, are discussed.
18317579	The problem of predicting non-long terminal repeats (LTR) like long interspersed nuclear elements (LINEs) and short interspersed nuclear elements (SINEs) from the DNA sequence is still an open problem in bioinformatics. To elevate the quality of annotations of LINES and SINEs an automated tool "RetroPred" was developed. The pipeline allowed rapid and thorough annotation of non-LTR retrotransposons. The non-LTR retrotransposable elements were initially predicted by Pairwise Aligner for Long Sequences (PALS) and Parsimonious Inference of a Library of Elementary Repeats (PILER). Predicted non-LTR elements were automatically classified into LINEs and SINEs using ANN based on the position specific probability matrix (PSPM) generated by Multiple EM for Motif Elicitation (MEME). The ANN model revealed a superior model (accuracy = 78.79 +/- 6.86 %, Q(pred) = 74.734 +/- 17.08 %, sensitivity = 84.48 +/- 6.73 %, specificity = 77.13 +/- 13.39 %) using four-fold cross validation. As proof of principle, we have thoroughly annotated the location of LINEs and SINEs in rice and Arabidopsis genome using the tool and is proved to be very useful with good accuracy. Our tool is accessible at http://www.juit.ac.in/RepeatPred/home.html.
18317774	To facilitate cloning gene(s) underlying gpa7, a deep-coverage BAC library was constructed for an isolate of common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) collected from Dongxiang, Jiangxi Province, China (DXCWR). gpa7, a quantitative trait locus corresponding to grain number per panicle, is positioned in the short arm of chromosome 7. The BAC library containing 96,768 clones represents approximate 18 haploid genome equivalents. The contig spanning DXCWR gpa7 was constructed with a series of ordered markers. The putative physical map near the gpa7 locus of another accession of O. rufipogon (Accession: IRGC 105491) was also isolated in silico. Analysis of the physical maps of gpa7 indicated that a segment of about 150 kb was deleted during domestication of common wild rice.
18318492	Mercury is a global pollutant that can transform into methylmercury, a highly toxic and bioaccumulative organic form. Previous surveys have shown that fish is the main source of human methylmercury exposure, whereas most other food products have an average value below 20 microg/kg and primarily in the inorganic form. This paper reports that methylmercury in rice (Oryza sativa L.) grown at abandoned mercury mining areas contained levels >100 microg/kg in its edible portion and proved to be 10-100 times higher than other crop plants. The daily adult intake of methylmercury through rice consumption causes abnormally high methylmercury exposure to humans. The results demonstrate that rice is a methylmercury bioaccumulative plant and the main methylmercury source for human exposure in the areas studied.
18318515	Quasi-classical trajectory (QCT) calculations on a model potential energy surface (PES) show strong deviations from statistical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) rate theory for the decomposition reaction (1) CH3OONO* --> CH3O + NO2, where the highly excited CH3OONO* was formed by (2) CH3O2 + NO --> CH3OONO*. The model PES accurately describes the vibrational frequencies, structures, and thermochemistry of the cis- and trans-CH3OONO isomers; it includes cis-trans isomerization in addition to reactions 1 and 2 but does not include nitrate formation, which is too slow to affect the decay rate of CH3OONO*. The QCT results give a strongly time-dependent rate constant for decomposition and damped oscillations in the decomposition rate, not predicted by statistical rate theory. Anharmonicity is shown to play an important role in reducing the rate constant by a factor of 10 smaller than predicted using classical harmonic RRKM theory (microcanonical variational transition state theory). Master equation simulations of organic nitrate yields published previously by two groups assumed that RRKM theory is accurate for reactions 1 and 2 but required surprising parametrizations to fit experimental nitrate yield data. In the present work, it is hypothesized that the non-RRKM rate of reaction (1) and vibrational anharmonicity are at least partly responsible for the surprising parameters.
18318603	Nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbioses (RNS) occur in two major forms-Actinorhiza and legume-rhizobium symbiosis-which differ in bacterial partner, intracellular infection pattern, and morphogenesis. The phylogenetic restriction of nodulation to eurosid angiosperms indicates a common and recent evolutionary invention, but the molecular steps involved are still obscure. In legumes, at least seven genes-including the symbiosis receptor-kinase gene SYMRK-are essential for the interaction with rhizobia bacteria and for the Arbuscular Mycorrhiza (AM) symbiosis with phosphate-acquiring fungi, which is widespread in occurrence and believed to date back to the earliest land plants. We show that SYMRK is also required for Actinorhiza symbiosis of the cucurbit Datisca glomerata with actinobacteria of the genus Frankia, revealing a common genetic basis for both forms of RNS. We found that SYMRK exists in at least three different structural versions, of which the shorter forms from rice and tomato are sufficient for AM, but not for functional endosymbiosis with bacteria in the legume Lotus japonicus. Our data support the idea that SYMRK sequence evolution was involved in the recruitment of a pre-existing signalling network from AM, paving the way for the evolution of intracellular root symbioses with nitrogen-fixing bacteria.
18319240	Fructans are water-soluble fructose oligomers and polymers that are based on sucrose, and have been implicated in protecting plants against water stress. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is highly sensitive to chilling temperatures, and is not able to synthesize fructans. Two wheat fructan-synthesizing enzymes, sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyltransferase, encoded by wft2, or sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase, encoded by wft1, were introduced into rice plants, and rice transformants that accumulate fructans were successfully obtained. The mature leaf blades of transgenic rice lines with wft2 or wft1 accumulated 16.2 mg g(-1) FW of oligo- and polysaccharides mainly composed of inulin oligomers of more than DP7, and 3.7 mg g(-1) FW of oligo- and polysaccharides, mainly composed of phlein oligomers of more than DP15, respectively. The transgenic rice seedlings with wft2 accumulated significantly higher concentrations of oligo- and polysaccharides than non-transgenic rice seedlings, and exhibited enhanced chilling tolerance. The oligo- and polysaccharide concentrations of seedlings expressing wft1 were obviously lower than those of lines expressing wft2, and no correlation between oligo- and polysaccharide concentrations and chilling tolerance was detected in wft1-expressing rice lines. The results suggest that transgenic rice lines expressing wheat-derived fructosyltransferase genes accumulated large amounts of fructans in mature leaf blades and exhibited enhanced chilling tolerance at the seedling stage. This is the first report owing that fructan accumulation enhanced tolerance to non-freezing low temperatures.
18319396	Introns that elevate mRNA accumulation have been found in a wide range of eukaryotes. However, not all introns affect gene expression, and direct testing is currently the only way to identify stimulatory introns. Our genome-wide analysis in Arabidopsis thaliana revealed that promoter-proximal introns as a group are compositionally distinct from distal introns and that the degree to which an individual intron matches the promoter-proximal intron profile is a strong predictor of its ability to increase expression. We found that the sequences responsible for elevating expression are dispersed throughout an enhancing intron, as is a candidate motif that is overrepresented in first introns and whose occurrence in tested introns is proportional to its effect on expression. The signals responsible for intron-mediated enhancement are apparently conserved between Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) despite the large evolutionary distance separating these plants.
18320186	Soils are rich in organics, particularly those that support growth of plants. These organics are possible sources of sustainable energy, and a microbial fuel cell (MFC) system can potentially be used for this purpose. Here, we report the application of an MFC system to electricity generation in a rice paddy field. In our system, graphite felt electrodes were used; an anode was set in the rice rhizosphere, and a cathode was in the flooded water above the rhizosphere. It was observed that electricity generation (as high as 6 mW/m(2), normalized to the anode projection area) was sunlight dependent and exhibited circadian oscillation. Artificial shading of rice plants in the daytime inhibited the electricity generation. In the rhizosphere, rice roots penetrated the anode graphite felt where specific bacterial populations occurred. Supplementation to the anode region with acetate (one of the major root-exhausted organic compounds) enhanced the electricity generation in the dark. These results suggest that the paddy-field electricity-generation system was an ecological solar cell in which the plant photosynthesis was coupled to the microbial conversion of organics to electricity.
18320187	The localization of bacterial cell, pattern of colonization, and survival of Methylobacterium suomiense CBMB120 in the rhizosphere of rice and tomato plants were followed by confocal laser scanning, scanning electron microscopy, and selective plating. M. suomiense CBMB120 was tagged with green fluorescent protein (gfp), and inoculation was carried out through seed source. The results clearly showed that the gfp marker is stably inherited and is expressed in planta allowing for easy visualization of M. suomiense CBMB120. The colonization differed in rice and tomato -- intercellular colonization of surface-sterilized root sections was visible in tomato but not in rice. In both rice and tomato, the cells were visible in the substomatal chambers of leaves. Furthermore, the strain was able to compete with the indigenous microorganisms and persist in the rhizosphere of tomato and rice, assessed through dilution plating on selective media. The detailed ultra-structural study on the rhizosphere colonization by Methylobacterium put forth conclusively that M. suomiense CBMB120 colonize the roots and leaf surfaces of the plants studied and is transmitted to the aerial plant parts from the seed source.
18320227	Introns are important sequence elements that modulate the expression of genes. Using the GUS reporter gene driven by the promoter of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) polyubiquitin rubi3 gene, we investigated the effects of the 5' UTR intron of the rubi3 gene and the 5' terminal 27 bp of the rubi3 coding sequence on gene expression in stably transformed rice plants. While the intron enhanced GUS gene expression, the 27-bp fused to the GUS coding sequence further augmented GUS expression level, with both varying among different tissues. The intron elevated GUS gene expression mainly at mRNA accumulation level, but also stimulated enhancement at translational level. The enhancement on mRNA accumulation, as determined by realtime quantitative RT-PCR, varied remarkably with tissue type. The augmentation by the intron at translational level also differed by tissue type, but to a lesser extent. On the other hand, the 27-bp fusion further boosted GUS protein yield without affecting mRNA accumulation level, indicating stimulation at translation level, which was also affected by tissue type. The research revealed substantial variation in the magnitudes of intron-mediated enhancement of gene expression (IME) among tissues in rice plants and the importance of using transgenic plants for IME studies.
18320247	To identify salt-responsive genes in wheat, global expression analysis of transcripts was carried out using oligo-DNA microarrays. Microarrays have been designed from approximately 32,000 unique wheat genes classified from a large number of expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Two-week-old seedlings of wheat were treated with 150 mM NaCl for 1, 6, and 24 h, and their roots and shoots were separately subjected to analyses. Consequently, 5,996 genes showed changes in expression of more than twofold and were classified into 12 groups according to correlations in expression patterns. These salt-responsive genes were assigned functions using the Gene Ontology (GO). Genes assigned to transcription factor, transcription-regulator activity, and DNA-binding functions were preferentially classified into early response groups. On the other hand, those assigned transferase and transporter activity were classified into late response groups. These data suggest that multiple signal transduction pathways in response to salinity exist in wheat. Transcription factors (TFs) which have been reported as participants in salt-tolerant pathway changed their expression levels in response to salt treatment. Among them, only a few TFs show high sequence homologies to genes in rice. These investigations suggest that salt-responsive genes identified by this study are candidates for salt-stress tolerance uniquely in wheat.
18321185	Resistance to the blast pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae is proposed to be initiated by physical binding of a putative cytoplasmic receptor encoded by a nucleotide binding site-type resistance gene, Pi-ta, to the processed elicitor encoded by the corresponding avirulence gene AVR-Pita. Here, we report the identification of a new locus, Ptr(t), that is required for Pi-ta-mediated signal recognition. A Pi-ta-expressing susceptible mutant was identified using a genetic screen. Putative mutations at Ptr(t) do not alter recognition specificity to another resistance gene, Pi-k(s), in the Pi-ta homozygote, indicating that Ptr(t) is more likely specific to Pi-ta-mediated signal recognition. Genetic crosses of Pi-ta Ptr(t) and Pi-ta ptr(t) homozygotes suggest that Ptr(t) segregates as a single dominant nuclear gene. A ratio of 1:1 (resistant/susceptible) of a population of BC1 of Pi-ta Ptr(t) with pi-ta ptr(t) homozygotes indicates that Pi-ta and Ptr(t) are linked and cosegregate. Genotyping of mutants of pi-ta ptr(t) and Pi-ta Ptr(t) homozygotes using ten simple sequence repeat markers at the Pi-ta region determined that Pi-ta and Ptr(t) are located within a 9-megabase region and are of indica origin. Identification of Ptr(t) is a significant advancement in studying Pi-ta-mediated signal recognition and transduction.
18321305	The prevalence of Helicobacter pylori is higher in developing countries. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence and risk factors of H. pylori infection in areas with high prevalence of gastric cancer in Jiangsu Province, China. A prospective epidemiologic survey of H. pylori infection was accomplished in a natural population of 1457 individuals in Xiangshui and Gaoyou counties, Jiangsu Province, China. Questionnaires and laboratory tests for H. pylori infection ((13)C-urea breath test and serum IgG antibodies to H. pylori) were used and performed, respectively. Among 1371 subjects who completed questionnaires and H. pylori detection, 851 (62%) were H. pylori positive. The prevalence reached a peak at the age of 30-40 years (67%). There was no sex difference. The annual family income level was shown to be positively correlated with the risk of H. pylori infection. The prevalence of H. pylori infection was also associated with family size, education level, and several diet-related factors, such as the number of times cooked rice and potatoes eaten per week, and a family history of stomach diseases. Compared to nonsymptomatic individuals, people with dyspeptic symptoms (nausea, vomiting, and belching) presented a low prevalence of H. pylori infection. No association between H. pylori prevalence and smoking or drinking was found. Using multivariate logistic regression analysis, annual family income and education level were the independent predictors for H. pylori infection. High prevalence of H. pylori infection was found in areas with a high risk of gastric cancer and was related to several risk factors. The underlying mechanisms need to be further investigated.
18321443	The calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) is a seven transmembrane receptor incorporated into the cell membrane that is sensitive to extracellular calcium and other cations. The finding that the CaR is expressed on cancer cells has opened the door to a new understanding of the role of extracellular calcium as a promalignant stimulus through the CaR and its signaling apparatus as demonstrated in this thesis. I found, in a model of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM), that stimulation of the CaR worsens the promalignant features of the testicular H-500 Leydig cancer cells that were used in my studies. The CaR upregulated the release of parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP), the main mediator of hypercalcemia in HHM. The growth rate of the tumor was also increased by stimulation of the CaR, as DNA synthesis and protection against apoptosis were enhanced. The oncogene, pituitary tumor-transforming gene (PTTG), was found to be upregulated by the CaR in the H-500 cells, whereas calcium had no effect on PTTG expression in the U-87 astrocytoma cell line, but other proproliferative agents did upregulate PTTG in the U-87 cells. This makes PTTG a potential marker of malignancy and a therapeutic target in cancer, where the CaR is promalignant. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) exists in three isoforms, and I found that the CaR upregulated the inducible NOS but not the two other isoforms. This upregulation was accompanied by an increased production of NO. NO has been shown to be potentially promalignant, although such a role was not established in the H-500 cells. Therefore, the CaR stimulates several promalignant features in the H-500 cells. In turn, blocking these effects by targeting a proximal downstream signaling molecule of the CaR may be a future clinical approach, since blocking the CaR might have too many adverse effects on calcium homeostasis. In conclusion, the CaR plays diverse roles in cancer-acting as an inhibitor of cell proliferation in the colon crypt cells giving rise to colon cancer but as a promalignant receptor in most other cancer types, including Leydig cell cancers.
18322656	The concentrations of arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), chromium (Cr), copper (Cu), mercury (Hg), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), and lead (Pb) were determined in samples of various edible vegetables (artichoke, cauliflower, lettuce, tomato), fruits (apple, mandarin, orange, pear) and rice grown in soils irrigated with water from the Ebro River in Tarragona Province (Catalonia, Spain). Although all food items were randomly acquired in various localities of the area, the local origin was always verified. Arsenic was only detected in rice (all samples) and apple (one sample), while Cd and Hg could not be detected in any of the samples. In general terms, metal concentrations were quite similar or lower than the levels recently reported in the literature. The health risks caused by metal exposure from consuming these agricultural products were assessed for the Catalan population living in the zone under evaluation. For all elements, when the lower bound values were considered, the Hazard Quotient (HQ) was <1, while using the Upper bound values, only for As (children and male seniors) HQ was >1. The intake of the analyzed elements through consumption of the nine selected food items does not mean additional health risks for the consumers of the area.
18323537	The diversity of microRNAs and small-interfering RNAs has been extensively explored within angiosperms by focusing on a few key organisms such as Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana. A deeper division of the plants is defined by the radiation of the angiosperms and gymnosperms, with the latter comprising the commercially important conifers. The conifers are expected to provide important information regarding the evolution of highly conserved small regulatory RNAs. Deep sequencing provides the means to characterize and quantitatively profile small RNAs in understudied organisms such as these. Pyrosequencing of small RNAs from O. sativa revealed, as expected, approximately 21- and approximately 24-nt RNAs. The former contained known microRNAs, and the latter largely comprised intergenic-derived sequences likely representing heterochromatin siRNAs. In contrast, sequences from Pinus contorta were dominated by 21-nt small RNAs. Using a novel sequence-based clustering algorithm, we identified sequences belonging to 18 highly conserved microRNA families in P. contorta as well as numerous clusters of conserved small RNAs of unknown function. Using multiple methods, including expressed sequence folding and machine learning algorithms, we found a further 53 candidate novel microRNA families, 51 appearing specific to the P. contorta library. In addition, alignment of small RNA sequences to the O. sativa genome revealed six perfectly conserved classes of small RNA that included chloroplast transcripts and specific types of genomic repeats. The conservation of microRNAs and other small RNAs between the conifers and the angiosperms indicates that important RNA silencing processes were highly developed in the earliest spermatophytes. Genomic mapping of all sequences to the O. sativa genome can be viewed at http://microrna.bcgsc.ca/cgi-bin/gbrowse/rice_build_3/.
18323633	A conidia suspension of Magnaporthe grisea carried elicitor activity that induced the expression of defense-related genes and the production of H(2)O(2) in suspension-cultured rice cells. The levels of H(2)O(2) produced were dependent on fungal isolates and were correlated with the catalase activity in the supernatant fraction of each conidia suspension, not with gene-for-gene interactions.
18323646	To determine the properties and structure of OsChia1b, a family 19 chitinase from Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare (japonica ssp.), recombinant OsChia1b was produced in Esherichia coli cells and purified to homogeneity by chitin affinity column chromatography. OsChia1b was highly active against soluble chitinous substrate, but not against crystalline chitin, and clearly inhibited hyphal extension of Trichoderma reesei.
18323815	Interactions between plants and compatible fungal pathogens are spatially and temporally dynamic, posing a major challenge for sampling and data analysis. A protocol is described for the infection of the model grass species Brachypodium distachyon with Magnaporthe grisea (rice blast), together with modifications to extend the use to rice and barley. We outline a method for the preparation of long-term stocks of virulent fungal pathogens and for the generation of fungal inoculants for challenge of host plants. Host plant growth, pathogen inoculation and plant sampling protocols are presented together with methods for assessing the efficiency of both infection and sampling procedures. Included in the anticipated results is a description of the use of metabolite fingerprinting and multivariate data analysis to assess disease synchrony and validate system reproducibility between experiments. The design concepts will have value in any studies using biological systems that contain dynamic variance associated with large compositional changes in sample matrix over time.
18325341	We previously identified a salt and drought stress-responsive TFIIIA-type zinc finger protein gene ZFP252 from rice. Here we report the functional analysis of ZFP252 using gain- and loss-of-function strategies. We found that overexpression of ZFP252 in rice increased the amount of free proline and soluble sugars, elevated the expression of stress defense genes and enhanced rice tolerance to salt and drought stresses, as compared with ZFP252 antisense and non-transgenic plants. Our findings suggest that ZFP252 plays an important role in rice response to salt and drought stresses and is useful in engineering crop plants with enhanced tolerance to salt and drought stresses.
18325566	Iron plaque is ubiquitously formed on the root surfaces of rice. However, little is known about the role of iron plaque in Cd movement from soil to the plant aboveground parts. A pot experiment was conducted to investigate the influence of iron plaque in Cd uptake and accumulation by rice seedlings in soil. Rice seedlings were pre-cultivated in solution culture for 16 days. Two seedlings were transplanted in a nylon bag containing no substrate but surrounded by soil amended with Fe and Cd combined at rates of 0, 1, or 2 g Fe kg(-1) and 0, 2.0, or 10 mg Cd kg(-1) soil. Fe was added to induce different amounts of iron plaque, and Cd to simulate Cd-polluted soils. Plants were grown for a further 43 days and then harvested. The length of the longest leaf and SPAD values of the newly mature leaves were measured during plant growth. Fe and Cd concentrations were determined in dithionite-citrate-bicarbonate (DCB) soil extracts and in plant roots and shoots. Shoot and root dry weights were significantly affected by Fe supply level but not by added Cd. Root dry weight declined with increasing Fe supply but shoot dry weight decreased at 2 g Fe kg(-1) and increased at 1 g Fe kg(-1) (except at 2 mg Cd kg(-1)). The length of the longest leaf and SPAD values of the newly mature leaves were significantly affected by plant growth stage and added Fe and Cd. Fe tended to diminish the negative effect of Cd on these two parameters. Cd concentrations in DCB extracts increased with increasing Cd and Fe supply. In contrast, external Fe supply markedly reduced shoot and root Cd concentrations and there was generally no significant difference between the two Fe supply levels. Shoot and root Cd concentrations increased with increasing Cd addition. Root Cd concentrations were negatively correlated with root Fe concentrations. The proportion of Cd in DCB extracts was significantly lower than in roots or shoots. The results indicate that enhanced Fe uptake by plants can diminish the negative effects of Cd to some extent and that iron plaque on root surfaces is of little significance in affecting uptake and accumulation of Cd by rice plants.
18325922	Salt tolerance of plants depends on HKT transporters (High-affinity K(+) Transporter), which mediate Na(+)-specific transport or Na(+)-K(+) co-transport. Gene sequences closely related to rice HKT genes were isolated from hexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) or barley (Hordeum vulgare) for genomic DNA southern hybridization analysis. HKT gene sequences were mapped on chromosomal arms of wheat and barley using wheat chromosome substitution lines and barley-wheat chromosome addition lines. In addition, HKT gene members in the wild diploid wheat ancestors, T. monococcum (A(m) genome), T. urartu (A(u) genome), and Ae. tauschii (D(t) genome) were investigated. Variation in copy number for individual HKT gene members was observed between the barley, wheat, and rice genomes, and between the different wheat genomes. HKT2;1/2-like, HKT2;3/4-like, HKT1;1/2-like, HKT1;3-like, HKT1;4-like, and HKT1;5-like genes were mapped to the wheat-barley chromosome groups 7, 7, 2, 6, 2, and 4, respectively. Chromosomal regions containing HKT genes were syntenic between wheat and rice except for the chromosome regions containing the HKT1;5-like gene. Potential roles of HKT genes in Na(+) transport in rice, wheat, and barley are discussed. Determination of the chromosome locations of HKT genes provides a framework for future physiological and genetic studies investigating the relationships between HKT genes and salt tolerance in wheat and barley.
18326182	Kimchi is a unique Korean traditional vegetable product that is fermented by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and is mainly consumed as a side dish with boiled rice. Its main ingredients are brined Chinese cabbage, red pepper powder, and fermented fish sauce, and these are combined with many spices such as garlic, green onion, ginger, and some seaweed. The relationship between the concentration of LAB or the pH and the growth of three gram-positive foodborne pathogens (Bacillus cereus, Listeria monocytogenes, and Staphylococcus aureus) was evaluated. Heat treatment (HT; 85 degrees C for 15 min) or neutralization treatment (NT; pH 7.0) was conducted on day 0 (0-D group) and day 3 (3-D group) of incubation. The pH in the control group and the NT group dropped sharply to 4.12 to 4.30 after 2 days of incubation and slightly decreased thereafter, whereas the pH in the control group and HT group stayed at 7.0 during incubation. LAB were not detected in the HT kimchi during incubation. B. cereus in the NT-0-D, NT-3-D, and HT-3-D groups was reduced by 1.5 to 3.1 log CFU/ml but increased slightly in the HT-0-D group. L. monocytogenes in HT-3-D and NT-3-D groups disappeared after 5 days of incubation, and S. aureus in the NT-0-D group disappeared after 4 days. These findings indicate that growth of all the foodborne pathogens was inhibited by NT-0-D, HT-3-D, and NT-3-D, but B. cereus was not inhibited by HT-0-D. Thus, growth of LAB in kimchi is an important factor in the control of foodborne pathogens.
18326788	We here report on the characterization of a novel third phytoene synthase gene (PSY) in rice (Oryza sativa), OsPSY3, and on the differences among all three PSY genes with respect to the tissue-specific expression and regulation upon various environmental stimuli. The two already known PSYs are under phytochrome control and involved in carotenoid biosynthesis in photosynthetically active tissues and exhibit different expression patterns during chloroplast development. In contrast, OsPSY3 transcript levels are not affected by light and show almost no tissue-specific differences. Rather, OsPSY3 transcripts are up-regulated during increased abscisic acid (ABA) formation upon salt treatment and drought, especially in roots. The simultaneous induction of genes encoding 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenases (NCEDs), involved in the initial steps of ABA biosynthesis, indicate that decreased xanthophyll levels are compensated by the induction of the third PSY gene. Furthermore, OsPSY3 and the OsNCEDs investigated were also induced by the application of ABA, indicating positive feedback regulation. The regulatory differences are mirrored by cis-acting elements in the corresponding promoter regions, with light-responsive elements for OsPSY1 and OsPSY2 and an ABA-response element as well as a coupling element for OsPSY3. The investigation of the gene structures and 5' untranslated regions revealed that OsPSY1 represents a descendant of an ancient PSY gene present in the common ancestor of monocots and dicots. Since the genomic structures of OsPSY2 and OsPSY3 are comparable, we conclude that they originated from the most recent common ancestor, OsPSY1.
18328117	Little is known about the effect of dietary carbohydrate, glycaemic index (GI) and glycaemic load (GL) on the risk of the metabolic syndrome, especially in populations with white rice as the staple food. The study examined the cross-sectional relationship between carbohydrate, GI, GL and risk of the metabolic syndrome. There were a total of 910 middle-aged Korean adults. Dietary carbohydrate, GI and GL were determined by an interview-administered FFQ. The metabolic syndrome was defined using the modified criteria published in the Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III. The risk of developing the metabolic syndrome was positively related to dietary carbohydrate (P for trend = 0.03), GI (P for trend = 0.03) and GL intakes (P for trend = 0.02) in women after adjusting for potential confounding variables. Among the components of developing the metabolic syndrome, the risk of high TAG and low HDL-cholesterol were positively related to high GI and GL intakes in women. The risk of developing the metabolic syndrome was considerably higher in the highest quintiles of carbohydrate (OR 6.44; 95 % CI 2.16, 19.2), GI (OR 10.4; 95 % CI 3.24, 33.3) and GL intakes (OR 6.68; 95 % CI 2.30, 19.4) than in the lowest quintiles among women with a BMI >/= 25 kg/m2. However, there was no difference in risk across quintiles of carbohydrate, GI and GL among women with a BMI < 25 kg/m2. In conclusion, both the quantity and quality of carbohydrate intake has a positive relationship with the risk of the metabolic syndrome in women but this relationship was dependent on the BMI level.
18328408	In this report the various elements of the safety and nutritional assessment procedure for genetically modified (GM) plant derived food and feed are discussed, in particular the potential and limitations of animal feeding trials for the safety and nutritional testing of whole GM food and feed. The general principles for the risk assessment of GM plants and derived food and feed are followed, as described in the EFSA guidance document of the EFSA Scientific Panel on Genetically Modified Organisms. In Section 1 the mandate, scope and general principles for risk assessment of GM plant derived food and feed are discussed. Products under consideration are food and feed derived from GM plants, such as maize, soybeans, oilseed rape and cotton, modified through the introduction of one or more genes coding for agronomic input traits like herbicide tolerance and/or insect resistance. Furthermore GM plant derived food and feed, which have been obtained through extensive genetic modifications targeted at specific alterations of metabolic pathways leading to improved nutritional and/or health characteristics, such as rice containing beta-carotene, soybeans with enhanced oleic acid content, or tomato with increased concentration of flavonoids, are considered. The safety assessment of GM plants and derived food and feed follows a comparative approach, i.e. the food and feed are compared with their non-GM counterparts in order to identify intended and unintended (unexpected) differences which subsequently are assessed with respect to their potential impact on the environment, safety for humans and animals, and nutritional quality. Key elements of the assessment procedure are the molecular, compositional, phenotypic and agronomic analysis in order to identify similarities and differences between the GM plant and its near isogenic counterpart. The safety assessment is focussed on (i) the presence and characteristics of newly expressed proteins and other new constituents and possible changes in the level of natural constituents beyond normal variation, and on the characteristics of the GM food and feed, and (ii) the possible occurrence of unintended (unexpected) effects in GM plants due to genetic modification. In order to identify these effects a comparative phenotypic and molecular analysis of the GM plant and its near isogenic counterpart is carried out, in parallel with a targeted analysis of single specific compounds, which represent important metabolic pathways in the plant like macro and micro nutrients, known anti-nutrients and toxins. Significant differences may be indicative of the occurrence of unintended effects, which require further investigation. Section 2 provides an overview of studies performed for the safety and nutritional assessment of whole food and feed. Extensive experience has been built up in recent decades from the safety and nutritional testing in animals of irradiated foods, novel foods and fruit and vegetables. These approaches are also relevant for the safety and nutritional testing of whole GM food and feed. Many feeding trials have been reported in which GM foods like maize, potatoes, rice, soybeans and tomatoes have been fed to rats or mice for prolonged periods, and parameters such as body weight, feed consumption, blood chemistry, organ weights, histopathology etc have been measured. The food and feed under investigation were derived from GM plants with improved agronomic characteristics like herbicide tolerance and/or insect resistance. The majority of these experiments did not indicate clinical effects or histopathological abnormalities in organs or tissues of exposed animals. In some cases adverse effects were noted, which were difficult to interpret due to shortcomings in the studies. Many studies have also been carried out with feed derived from GM plants with agronomic input traits in target animal species to assess the nutritive value of the feed and their performance potential. Studies in sheep, pigs, broilers, lactating dairy cows, and fish, comparing the in vivo bioavailability of nutrients from a range of GM plants with their near isogenic counterpart and commercial varieties, showed that they were comparable with those for near isogenic non-GM lines and commercial varieties. In Section 3 toxicological in vivo, in silico, and in vitro test methods are discussed which may be applied for the safety and nutritional assessment of specific compounds present in food and feed or of whole food and feed derived from GM plants. Moreover the purpose, potential and limitations of the 90-day rodent feeding trial for the safety and nutritional testing of whole food and feed have been examined. Methods for single and repeated dose toxicity testing, reproductive and developmental toxicity testing and immunotoxicity testing, as described in OECD guideline tests for single well-defined chemicals are discussed and considered to be adequate for the safety testing of single substances including new products in GM food and feed. Various in silico and in vitro methods may contribute to the safety assessment of GM plant derived food and feed and components thereof, like (i) in silico searches for sequence homology and/or structural similarity of novel proteins or their degradation products to known toxic or allergenic proteins, (ii) simulated gastric and intestinal fluids in order to study the digestive stability of newly expressed proteins and in vitro systems for analysis of the stability of the novel protein under heat or other processing conditions, and (iii) in vitro genotoxicity test methods that screen for point mutations, chromosomal aberrations and DNA damage/repair. The current performance of the safety assessment of whole foods is mainly based on the protocols for low-molecular-weight chemicals such as pharmaceuticals, industrial chemicals, pesticides, food additives and contaminants. However without adaptation, these protocols have limitations for testing of whole food and feed. This primarily results from the fact that defined single substances can be dosed to laboratory animals at very large multiples of the expected human exposure, thus giving a large margin of safety. In contrast foodstuffs are bulky, lead to satiation and can only be included in the diet at much lower multiples of expected human intakes. When testing whole foods, the possible highest concentration of the GM food and feed in the laboratory animal diet may be limited because of nutritional imbalance of the diet, or by the presence of compounds with a known toxicological profile. The aim of the 90-days rodent feeding study with the whole GM food and feed is to assess potential unintended effects of toxicological and/or nutritional relevance and to establish whether the GM food and feed is as safe and nutritious as its traditional comparator rather than determining qualitative and quantitative intrinsic toxicity of defined food constituents. The design of the study should be adapted from the OECD 90-day rodent toxicity study. The precise study design has to take into account the nature of the food and feed and the characteristics of the new trait(s) and their intended role in the GM food and feed. A 90-day animal feeding trial has a large capacity (sensitivity and specificity) to detect potential toxicological effects of single well defined compounds. This can be concluded from data reported on the toxicology of a wide range of industrial chemicals, pharmaceuticals, food substances, environmental, and agricultural chemicals. It is possible to model the sensitivity of the rat subchronic feeding study for the detection of hypothetically increased amount of compounds such as anti-nutrients, toxicants or secondary metabolites. With respect to the detection of potential unintended effects in whole GM food and feed, it is unlikely that substances present in small amounts and with a low toxic potential will result in any observable (unintended) effects in a 90-day rodent feeding study, as they would be below the no-observed-effect-level and thus of unlikely impact to human health at normal intake levels. Laboratory animal feeding studies of 90-days duration appear to be sufficient to pick up adverse effects of diverse compounds that would also give adverse effects after chronic exposure. This conclusion is based on literature data from studies investigating whether toxicological effects are adequately identified in 3-month subchronic studies in rodents, by comparing findings at 3 and 24 months for a range of different chemicals. The 90-day rodent feeding study is not designed to detect effects on reproduction or development other than effects on adult reproductive organ weights and histopathology. Analyses of available data indicate that, for a wide range of substances, reproductive and developmental effects are not potentially more sensitive endpoints than those examined in subchronic toxicity tests. Should there be structural alerts for reproductive/developmental effects or other indications from data available on a GM food and feed, then these tests should be considered. By relating the estimated daily intake, or theoretical maximum daily intake per capita for a given whole food (or the sum of its individual commercial constituents) to that consumed on average per rat per day in the subchronic 90-day feeding study, it is possible to establish the margin of exposure (safety margin) for consumers. Results obtained from testing GM food and feed in rodents indicate that large (at least 100-fold) 'safety' margins exist between animal exposure levels without observed adverse effects and estimated human daily intake. Results of feeding studies with feed derived from GM plants with improved agronomic properties, carried out in a wide range of livestock species, are discussed. The studies did not show any biologically relevant differences in the parameters tested between control and test animals. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
18328697	Synthetic dyes are important chemical pollutants from various industries. This work developed an efficient and relatively simple continuous decolorization system rice hull-Schizophyllum sp. F17 under solid-state condition in a packed-bed bioreactor, for decolorizing Congo red. In the decolorization system, two decolorization mechanisms exist, one is decolorization by Schizophyllum sp. F17, the other is biosorption by rice hull. The decolorization efficiency was greatly affected by dye concentration and hydraulic retention time (HRT), which were quantificationally analyzed and optimized through response surface methodology (RSM). A 2(2) full factorial central composite design (CCD) was performed, and three second order polynomial models were generated to describe the effects of dye concentration and HRT on total decolorization (R2=0.902), decolorization by Schizophyllum sp. F17 (R2=0.866) and biosorption by rice hull (R2=0.890). Response surface contour plots were constructed to show the individual and cumulative effects of dye concentration and HRT, and the optimum values. A maximum total decolorization 89.71% and maximum decolorization by Schizophyllum sp. F17 60.44% was achieved at dye concentration 142.63mg/L, HRT 41h, and dye concentration 110.7mg/L, HRT 29.4h, respectively. Meanwhile, the role of manganese peroxidase (MnP) in the decolorizaion process was investigated. This study proved the feasibility of continuous mode for decolorizing synthetic dyes by white-rot fungi in solid-state fermentation bioreactors.
18330134	Ten transgenic Bacillus thuringiensis Bt rice, Oryza sativa L., lines with different Bt genes (two Cry1Ac lines, three Cry2A lines, and five Cry9C lines) derived from the same variety Minghui 63 were evaluated in both the laboratory and the field. Bioassays were conducted by using the first instars of two main rice lepidopteran insect species: yellow stem borer, Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker) and Asiatic rice borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker). All transgenic lines exhibited high toxicity to these two rice borers. Field evaluation results also showed that all transgenic lines were highly insect resistant with both natural infestation and manual infestation of the neonate larvae of S. incertulas compared with the nontransformed Minghui63. Bt protein concentrations in leaves of 10 transgenic rice lines were estimated by the sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The cry9C gene had the highest expression level, next was cry2A gene, and the cry1Ac gene expressed at the lowest level. The feeding behavior of 7-d-old Asiatic rice borer to three classes of Bt transgenic rice lines also was detected by using rice culm cuttings. The results showed that 7-d-old larvae of Asiatic rice borer have the capacity to distinguish Bt and non-Bt culm cuttings and preferentially fed on non-Bt cuttings. When only Bt culm cuttings with three classes of different Bt proteins (CrylAc, Cry2A, and Cry9C) were fed, significant distribution difference of 7-d-old Asiatic rice borer in culm cuttings of different Bt proteins also was found. In the current study, we evaluate different Bt genes in the same rice variety in both the laboratory and the field, and also tested feeding behavior of rice insect to these Bt rice. These data are valuable for the further development of two-toxin Bt rice and establishment of appropriate insect resistance management in the future.
18330138	Commercial rice, Oryza sativa L., fields in southeastern Texas were sampled during 2003 and 2004, and visual samples were compared with sweep net samples. Fields were sampled at different stages of panicle development, times of day, and by different operators. Significant differences were found between perimeter and within field sweep net samples, indicating that samples taken 9 m from the field margin overestimate within field Oebalus pugnax (F.) (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) populations. Time of day did not significantly affect the number of O. pugnax caught with the sweep net; however, there was a trend to capture more insects during morning than afternoon. For all sampling methods evaluated during this study, O. pugnax was found to have an aggregated spatial pattern at most densities. When comparing sweep net with visual sampling methods, one sweep of the "long stick" and two sweeps of the "sweep stick" correlated well with the sweep net (r2 = 0.639 and r2 = 0.815, respectively). This relationship was not affected by time of day of sampling, stage of panicle development, type of planting or operator. Relative cost-reliability, which incorporates probability of adoption, indicates the visual methods are more cost-reliable than the sweep net for sampling O.
18330398	The objective of this study was to examine the association of red meat and vegetable consumption with excess bodyweight. This is a cross sectional study, conducted between October 2000 and March 2001. Participants included 23,316 local residents aged 35 and above from 45 administrative villages randomly selected from urban and rural areas of Nanjing, China, with a population of 5.6 million. The response rate was 90.1%. Logistic regression model was used for the analysis. The prevalence of excess body weight, overweight and obesity was 34.1%, 28.2% and 6.0%, respectively. After adjustment for age, educational attainment, family average income, occupational and leisure-time physical activity, smoking, drinking, consumption of white meat, consumption of rice and cooking oil as well as fruits, participants in the moderate or higher level of red meat consumption were more likely to have excess body weight (OR: 1.13 (95% CI =1.02, 1.26) and 1.15 (1.02, 12.9) for males; 1.11 (0.98, 1.25) and 1.25 (1.10, 1.42) for females respectively), compared with those in the lower level of red meat consumption. There was no statistically significant association for consumption of vegetables. Consumption of more red meat was suggested to be a factor contributing to body weight gain in China. For residents who want to have healthy body weight, it is important to consume less red meat in the process of socioeconomic transition.
18330597	We identified barley aquaporins and demonstrated that one, HvPIP2;1, transports water and CO2. Regarding water homeostasis in plants, regulations of aquaporin expression were observed in many plants under several environmental stresses. Under salt stress, a number of plasma membrane-type aquaporins were down-regulated, which can prevent continuous dehydration resulting in cell death. The leaves of transgenic rice plants that expressed the largest amount of HvPIP2;1 showed a 40% increase in internal CO2 conductance compared with leaves of wild-type rice plants. The rate of CO2 assimilation also increased in the transgenic plants. The goal of our plant aquaporin research is to determine the key aquaporin species responsible for water and CO2 transport, and to improve plant water relations, stress tolerance, CO2 uptake or assimilation, and plant productivity via molecular breeding of aquaporins.
18330710	Leaf senescence is one of the key stages of plant leaf development. It is a highly complex but ordered process involving expression of large scale senescence associated genes, and its molecular mechanisms still remain unclear. By using suppression subtractive hybridization, 815 ESTs that are up-regulated at the onset of rice flag leaf senescence have been isolated. A total of 533 unigenes have been confirmed by macroarray detection and sequencing. 183 of these unigenes have GO annotations, involved in macromolecule metabolism, protein biosynthesis regulation, energy metabolism, gene expression regulations, detoxification, pathogenicity and stress, cytoskeleton organization and flower development. Another 121 unigenes co-localized with previously reported known stay-green QTLS. RT-PCR analysis on the other novel genes indicated that they can be up-regulated in natural early senescence and induced by hormone. Our results indicate that senescence is closely related to various metabolic pathways, thus providing new insight into the onset of leaf senescence mechanism.
18331415	Aromatic rice is highly prized by most rice consumers, and many countries cultivate traditional and improved aromatic varieties. 2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP) is the major aromatic compound in rice, and is believed to accumulate because of an eight-base-pair (8-bp) deletion in an allele at the fragrance locus. In this study, 2AP was quantified and the presence or absence of the fragrance allele (fgr) was determined in 464 samples of traditional varieties of rice from the T.T. Chang Genetic Resources Centre at the International Rice Research Institute. It was shown that a number of aromatic varieties, primarily from South and South-East Asia, do not carry the 8-bp deletion, but 2AP was identified in both raw and cooked rice of these varieties. We suggest that the 8-bp deletion in fgr is not the only cause of aroma, and at least one other mutation drives the accumulation of 2AP. The amount of 2AP in most uniform fgr genotypes was not significantly different from that in aromatic nfgr genotypes, but several fgr genotypes, primarily from South Asia, reproducibly accumulated exceptionally large amounts of 2AP. We suggest that the mutation leading to 2AP in aromatic nfgr varieties possibly originated several times and, through either domestication or evolution, the fgr gene and other alleles leading to 2AP have combined in South Asia, leading to several highly aromatic traditional varieties. The identification of multiple mutations for 2AP will enable rice breeding programmes to select actively for multiple genetic sources of 2AP, leading to the development of highly aromatic and, consequently, high-quality varieties of rice.
18331768	The uptake of selected polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) by rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings from spiked aged soils was investigated. When applied to soils aged for 4 months, naphthalene, phenanthrene, and pyrene exhibited volatilization loss of 98, 95, and 30%, respectively, with the remaining fraction being fixed by soil organic matter and/or degraded by soil microbes. In general, concentrations of the three PAHs in rice roots were greater than those in the shoots. The concentrations of root associated PHN and PYR increased proportionally with both soil solution and rhizosphere concentrations. PAH concentrations in shoots were largely independent of those in soil solution, rice roots, or rhizosphere soil. The relative contributions of plant uptake and plant-promoted rhizosphere microbial biodegradation to the total mass balance were 0.24 and 14%, respectively, based on PYR concentrations in rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere soils, the biomass of rice roots, and the dry soil weight.
18331994	It is a practical strategy to screen for mutants in the research of plant functional genomics. Comparing with classical T-DNA knock-out mutagenesis technology by the loss-of-function mutation, the activation T-DNA tagging technique based on the gain-of-function mutation has its own particular advantages, mainly characterized by producing dominant mutants of genes with functional redundancy and easily cloning of the genes. First, the basic principle of activation tagging, and the progress of its application in the research on plant functional genomics was reviewed, especially in Arabidopsis and rice. The recent research progress in the mechanism of plant biotic and abiotic stress tolerance and of plant development unraveled by the method of activation tagging was then addressed. Finally, the limitation and prospects of this technique were discussed.
18332008	The promoter region and intact coding region of Pib gene (9.9 kb) was inserted into the downstream of CaMV 35S promoter in a binary vector pPZP2Ha3(+), resulting a plasmid pNAR701. And a fragment of Pib gene from 6 986 to 9 392 bp was placed into pPZP2Ha3(-) under the control of CaMV 35S promoter, producing an antisense expression vector pNAR703. These two recombined vectors were transferred into a blast medium susceptible rice cultivar R109 by an Agrobecterium-mediated method. Tests of PCR and Southern blotting for transgenic plants as well as the segregation of hygromycin resistance in T1 generation confirmed that the target DNA fragments were integrated into genome of R109 and hereditable. Northern blotting analysis showed the coding region of Pib gene double driven by 35S and its native promoter was able to transcript in T1 transgenic plants. Rice blast resistance test for T1 transgenic seedlings of 3-4 leaves stage and in vitro leaves in tillering stage showed that transgenic plants of pNAR701 were more resistant to blast race ZD1 and ZG1 than the wild type plants, but the resistance of antisense transgenic plants from pNAR703 was decreased compared to the controls.
18332009	Exploring novel genes and gene combinations are of primary importance in plant drought-tolerance and water-saving research. Based on the EST sequence of MYB gene obtained in the research on molecular basis of drought-tolerance and water-saving in broomcorn millet (Panicum miliaceum L.), a 1 739 bp genomic sequence of MYB gene, designated PmMYB, was amplified using primers based on this EST sequence and that of rice MYB18. Sequence analysis indicated that PmMYB consisted of 2 introns, 121 bp (347-467 bp) and 93 bp (599-691 bp) in length respectively, and 3 extrons. The full-length cDNA sequence of PmMYB is 1 525 bp, which includes 212 bp 3' untranslated region, 41 bp 5' untranslated region, and 1 272 bp coding region which encodes 424 amino acids with a serine-rich region. PmMYB is a typical R2, R3-MYB transcription factor with its 2 typical DNA-binding domains (amino acid sites of 13-63 and 66-114). The multiple alignment of R2, R3 amino acid repeat regions of MYB genes among broomcorn millet, rice, corn, loblolly pine, Arabidopsis, capsicum, upland cotton, barley and aubergine indicates that R2, R3 repeat regions are very conserved. The phylogenetic analysis based on amino acid sequence shows that MYB genes are highly divergent with similarity ranging from 32% to 84%. PmMYB has the highest similarity (84%) with MYB18 gene of rice, whereas 46% and 41% with barley and corn, respectively. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR confirmed that PmMYB was upregulated by water stress and re-watering in broomcorn millet. Cloning this gene may provide a good foundation to improve the drought-tolerance and water-saving in broomcorn millet as well as in other plants.
18333448	Based on a fifteen years field experiment in double rice-cropping region of subtropical China, the responses of microbial biomass P (MB-P) to organic C and P in red paddy soils under different fertilization systems were investigated. The results indicated that a long-term input of organic carbon sources and the increasing soil organic carbon made soil microbial biomass remain at a high level (MB-C > 800 mg x kg(-1)), being a main reason of the increase of MB-P. Under long-term zero chemical P fertilization, there was a significant decrease in soil total P (P < 0.05), but soil organic P increased by 29.3% on average. The inorganic P forms in deficit were mainly Al-P, Fe-P, Ca-P and O-P, with the lowest content of Al-P (only 0.5 mg x kg(-1) on average). The content of soil MB-P under zero chemical P fertilization was much higher than that of Olsen-P. Correlation analysis showed that there was a significant relationship (P < 0.05) between MB-P and Al-P, from which, it was deduced that the utilization of Al-P, Fe-P, Ca-P and O-P by soil microbes could be the key approach of promoting these P forms transformed into available P. Chemical P fertilization combined with organic nutrient recycling could not only enlarge the soil P pool, but also improve the P availability.
18333453	With ventilating chamber, this paper measured the ammonia volatilization from a meadow brown soil rice field after N fertilization under different water conditions in lower Liaohe River Plain. The results showed that there was an obvious ammonia volatilization after N fertilization. The total ammonia volatilization during rice growth period was 11.64-34.01 kg N x hm(-2), accounting for 4.66%-11.66% of applied N. The volatilization loss of applied N at different growth stages followed the order of tillering stage > booting stage > before transplanting, and the peak was appeared at 2-4 days after N fertilization. Field water condition had a strong effect on ammonia volatilization. Under waterlogging, both the amount of total ammonia volatilization and the percentage of lost fertilizer N were higher, and the ammonia volatilization rate increased with increasing N application rate, being significantly different among different N levels (P < 0.05). Under un-waterlogging, the ammonia volatilization was relatively low. N application rate and the ammonium concentration and pH in surface water were the main factors affecting ammonia volatilization, while P application rate had little effect when the N application rate was 180 kg N x hm(-2).
18333689	A pot microcosm experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of different forms of N fertilizers on As uptake by rice. Compared to a nontreated control, addition of nitrate reduced Fe(II) concentration in soil solution, while treatment with ammonium enhanced Fe(III) reduction, probably coupled to NH(4)(+) oxidation in the nonrhizosphere. Most-probable-number (MPN) enumerations revealed high densities of nitrate-dependent Fe(II)-oxidizing microorganisms. The addition of nitrate decreased Fe plaque formation on the root surface, accompanied by much lower dissolved Fe(II) concentrations in the rhizosphere soil solution compared to the nonamended control. Nitrate addition also reduced As uptake by the rice plant. These results suggest that nitrate may inhibit Fe(III) reduction and/or stimulate nitrate-dependent Fe(II) oxidation, leading to As coprecipitation with, or adsorption to, Fe(III) minerals in the soil. Although Fe plaque formation on the root surface is reduced, nitrate-dependent stimulation of Fe(II) oxidation and/or inhibition of Fe(III) reduction in the bulk soil sequesters mobile As in the soil, resulting in reduced As uptake by rice.
18334089	A novel ultra-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem triple quadrupole mass spectrometry method for the simultaneous determination of four water-soluble vitamins, including vitamin B5 (VB5), vitamin B8 (VB8), vitamin B9 (VB9), and vitamin B12 (VB12) in fortified infant foods is developed and validated. A reverse phase UPLC separation system consisting of a Waters ACQUITY UPLC BEH C-18 column (2.1 mm x 100 mm i.d., 1.7 microm) and a binary gradient acetonitrile-water mobile phase is applied for the separation of the four water-soluble vitamins. Formic acid is spiked into the mobile phase to enhance the ionization efficiency. Tandem MS-MS analysis is performed in multi-reaction monitoring mode (MRM). Product-ion traces at m/z 220.1 --> 89.9 for VB5, 245.1 --> 227.1 for VB8, 442.3 --> 295.2 for VB9, and 678.9 --> 147.0 for VB12 are used for quantitation of the corresponding vitamins, and traces at m/z 455.5 --> 308.0 are used for methotrexate (internal standard). Limits of quantitation (LOQs) are 0.016, 0.090, 0.020, and 0.019 microg/L for VB5, VB8, VB9, and VB12, respectively. Intra- and inter-day precisions for the determination of the four vitamins are better than 6.84% and 12.26% in relative standard deviations, and recoveries for the four vitamins are in the range of 86.0~101.5%. The developed approach is applied for the determination of the trace amounts of the vitamins in fortified milk powers and fortified rice powers.
18335199	Hybrid breakdown (HB), a phenomenon of reduced viability or fertility accompanied with retarded growth in hybrid progenies, often arises in the offspring of intersubspecific hybrids between indica and japonica in rice. We detected HB plants in F8 recombinant inbred lines derived from the cross between an indica variety, Milyang 23, and a japonica variety, Tong 88-7. HB plants showed retarded growth, with fewer tillers and spikelets. Genetic analysis revealed that HB was controlled by the complementary action of two recessive genes, hwh1 and hwh2, originating from each of both parents, which were fine-mapped on the short arm of chromosome 2 and on the near centromere region of the long arm of chromosome 11, respectively. A comparison of the sequences of candidate genes among both parents and HB plants revealed that hwh1 encoded a putative glucose-methanol-choline oxidoreductase with one amino acid change compared to Hwh1 and that hwh2 probably encoded a putative hexose transporter with a six amino acid insertion compared to Hwh2. Investigation of the distribution of these alleles among 54 japonica and indica cultivars using candidate gene-based markers suggested that the two loci might be involved in developing reproductive barriers between two subspecies.
18336645	The health benefits of delaying the introduction of complementary foods to infants' diets are widely known. Many studies have shown that mothers with the support of close social network members are more compliant with medical recommendations for infant feeding. In our study, we examine the effects of a broader spectrum of network members (40 people) on mothers' infant feeding decisions. The survey was conducted in Oaxaca, Mexico as part of a follow-up to a nationwide Mexican Social Security Institute survey of infant health. Sixty mothers were interviewed from a stratified random sample of the original respondents. Multivariate tests were used to compare the efficacy of network-level variables for predicting the introduction of 36 foods into infants' diets, when compared with respondent-level variables. The study yields four findings. First, network-level variables were better predictors of the timing of food introduction than socio-demographic variables. Second, mothers with more indigenous networks delayed the introduction of some grains (oatmeal, cereal, noodle soup, rice) and processed pork products (sausage and ham) to the infant's diet longer than mothers with less indigenous networks. Third, mothers who had stronger ties to their networks delayed the introduction of rice and processed pork products (sausage and ham) to the infant's diet longer than mothers who had weaker ties to their networks. Fourth, mothers who heeded the advice of distant network members introduced some grains (rice and cereal) earlier than mothers who did not heed the advice of distant network members.
18336647	In Cambodia, the energy and nutrient densities of the traditional rice-based complementary diets used for infant feeding are very low. Whether the adequacy improves after the first year of life is uncertain. Therefore, we examined the feeding practices and the energy and nutrient intakes from non-breastmilk foods (NBMFs) of two groups: partially breastfed (PBF) (n = 41) and non-breastfed (NBF) (n = 210) stunted toddlers aged 12-42 months from poor villages in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Intakes of NBMFs were estimated from 24-h recalls and a specially constructed Cambodian food composition table. All the toddlers were breastfed initially, but more than 50% received complementary foods before 6 months of age (mainly rice porridge). Many PBF toddlers received mixed feeding and were often bottle-fed diluted sweetened condensed milk. Unresponsive feeding was widespread. Inappropriate snacks, such as crisps, were the major source of energy, calcium, iron, zinc and vitamin A from NBMFs for the PBF group, and energy and iron for the NBF group. The snacks were often purchased and consumed without any adult supervision. For both groups, intakes of energy, calcium, iron and zinc were consistently below recommendations, as a result of the low micronutrient density of NBMFs and the small amounts fed per feeding. Increasing intakes of animal-source foods and dark-green and yellow fruits and vegetables would enhance micronutrient densities, although this may be neither feasible nor sufficient to overcome the existing deficits. Instead, the feasibility of micronutrient fortification of the rice-based diets of Cambodian toddlers should be explored.
18336734	Phagocytic cells, comprised of neutrophils and monocytes/macrophages, play a key role in the innate immune response to infection. Our earlier study demonstrated that arabinoxylan rice bran (MGN-3/Biobran) activates murine peritoneal macrophage and macrophage cell lines. In this study, we investigated whether MGN-3 can upregulate the phagocytic activity of human phagocytes in peripheral blood to phagocytize Escherichia coli (E. coli), trigger the oxidative burst and produce cytokines. Phagocytic cells were pre-labeled with dichlorofluorescin diacetate dye and were incubated with phycoerythrin-labeled E. coli in the presence or absence of MGN-3. Phagocytosis and oxidative burst were assessed by flow cytometry. Results showed that treatment with MGN-3 enhanced the phagocytosis of E. coli by neutrophils and monocytes. This was associated with an increased oxidative burst. In addition, it caused a significant induction of cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-8 and IL-10); the effect was detected at 1 microg/ml and increased in a dose-dependent manner (P <or= 0.01). Notably, MGN-3 alone had no effect on the growth of 31 strains of bacteria suggesting that MGN-3 modulates phagocytic cellular function. These findings may have applications in the treatment of infections in the elderly and in immunocompromised patients.
18337158	The parasitic weed Striga causes devastating losses in cereal yields in sub-Saharan Africa. The parasite lifecycle is intimately linked with its host via a complex interchange of signals. Understanding the molecular basis of these interactions and of host resistance to Striga is essential for the identification of genes for improving crop yield via biotechnological or marker assisted breeding strategies. Cloning and sequencing of ESTs from the 'model' parasite Triphysaria versicolor is facilitating the identification of parasitism genes. The identification of resistance to Striga in sorghum and rice germplasm is allowing molecular dissection of these traits using genomic platforms and quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis. QTL underlying different resistance phenotypes have been identified and the use of advanced backcross populations is allowing the exploitation of sources of resistance in wild relatives of cereals.
18338386	Plant nonspecific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are small, basic proteins constituted mainly of alpha-helices and stabilized by four conserved disulfide bridges. They are characterized by the presence of a tunnel-like hydrophobic cavity, capable of transferring various lipid molecules between lipid bilayers in vitro. In this study, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed at room temperature to investigate the effects of lipid binding on the dynamic properties of rice nsLTP1. Rice nsLTP1, either in the free form or complexed with one or two lipids was subjected to MD simulations. The C-terminal loop was very flexible both before and after lipid binding, as revealed by calculating the root-mean-square fluctuation. After lipid binding, the flexibility of some residues that were not in direct contact with lipid molecules increased significantly, indicating an increase of entropy in the region distal from the binding site. Essential dynamics analysis revealed clear differences in motion between unliganded and liganded rice nsLTP1s. In the free form of rice nsLTP1, loop1 exhibited the largest directional motion. This specific essential motion mode diminished after binding one or two lipid molecules. To verify the origin of the essential motion observed in the free form of rice nsLTP1, we performed multiple sequence alignments to probe the intrinsic motion encoded in the primary sequence. We found that the amino acid sequence of loop1 is highly conserved among plant nsLTP1s, thus revealing its functional importance during evolution. Furthermore, the sequence of loop1 is composed mainly of amino acids with short side chains. In this study, we show that MD simulations, together with essential dynamics analysis, can be used to determine structural and dynamic differences of rice nsLTP1 upon lipid binding.
18339463	Inorganic arsenic is a chronic exposure carcinogen. Analysis of UK baby rice revealed a median inorganic arsenic content (n=17) of 0.11 mg/kg. By plotting inorganic arsenic against total arsenic, it was found that inorganic concentrations increased linearly up to 0.25 mg/kg total arsenic, then plateaued at 0.16 mg/kg at higher total arsenic concentrations. Inorganic arsenic intake by babies (4-12 months) was considered with respect to current dietary ingestion regulations. It was found that 35% of the baby rice samples analysed would be illegal for sale in China which has regulatory limit of 0.15 mg/kg inorganic arsenic. EU and US food regulations on arsenic are non-existent. When baby inorganic arsenic intake from rice was considered, median consumption (expressed as microg/kg/d) was higher than drinking water maximum exposures predicted for adults in these regions when water intake was expressed on a bodyweight basis.
18343334	Xylose from rice straw hemicellulose hydrolysate was fermented for xylitol production using Candida subtropicalis WF79 cells immobilized in polyacrylic hydrogel thin films of 200 mum thickness. Cell immobilization was conducted by first suspending the yeast cells in a mixture of 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate (HEMA, hydrophilic monomer), polyethylene glycol diacrylate (PEG-DA, crosslinking agent), and benzoin isopropyl ether (photoinitiator). The mixture was then allowed to form polyacrylic hydrogel thin films, between two pieces of glass sheets, by UV-initiated photopolymerization. The hemicellulose of rice straw was hydrolyzed using dilute sulfuric acid at 126 degrees C. The hydrolysate was neutralized with calcium hydroxide. After separating the solid residues and calcium sulfate precipitates by filtration, the hydrolysate was treated with charcoal to partially remove potential inhibitory substances, followed by vacuum concentration to obtain solutions of desired xylose concentrations for yeast fermentation. The thin films with immobilized yeast cells were submerged in the xylose solution from rice straw hydrolysate for fermentation in an Erlenmeyer flask. The maximum yield was 0.73 g of xylitol per gram of xylose consumed. In the 52.5-day long durability test, after 40 d of repeated batchwise operation, the fermentation activities of the cell immobilized in thin films began to decline to a yield of 0.57 g/g at the end.
18343712	Improved grain yield has been a major focus of crop breeding programs around the world. With the accomplishments of the Rice Genome Project, genes regulating several agronomically important traits related to grain yield, such as tiller number, grain number, grain size, and plant height, have recently been identified. Although these findings have not been enough to fully characterize the mechanisms that regulate each trait, these genes and knowledge of the molecular mechanisms involved provide a set of tools that can be combined to achieve tailor-made breeding suitable for various programs aimed at higher grain yield.
1834383
18343892	Pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins form a huge family in plants (450 members in Arabidopsis and 477 in rice) defined by tandem repetitions of characteristic sequence motifs. Some of these proteins have been shown to play a role in posttranscriptional processes within organelles, and they are thought to be sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins. The origins of this family are obscure as they are lacking from almost all prokaryotes, and the spectacular expansion of the family in land plants is equally enigmatic. In this study, we investigate the growth of the family in plants by undertaking a genome-wide identification and comparison of the PPR genes of 3 organisms: the flowering plants Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa and the moss Physcomitrella patens. A large majority of the PPR genes in each of the flowering plants are intron less. In contrast, most of the 103 PPR genes in Physcomitrella are intron rich. A phylogenetic comparison of the PPR genes in all 3 species shows similarities between the intron-rich PPR genes in Physcomitrella and the few intron-rich PPR genes in higher plants. Intron-poor PPR genes in all 3 species also display a bias toward a position of their introns at their 5' ends. These results provide compelling evidence that one or more waves of retrotransposition were responsible for the expansion of the PPR gene family in flowering plants. The differing numbers of PPR proteins are highly correlated with differences in organellar RNA editing between the 3 species.
18344330	The products synthesized from a hybrid polyketide synthase/nonribosomal peptide synthetase gene cluster in the genome of Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf-5 were identified using a genomics-guided strategy involving insertional mutagenesis and subsequent metabolite profiling. Five analogs of rhizoxin, a 16-member macrolide with antifungal, phytotoxic, and antitumor activities, were produced by Pf-5, but not by a mutant with an insertion in the gene cluster. The five rhizoxin analogs, one of which had not been described previously, were differentially toxic to two agriculturally important plant pathogens, Botrytis cinerea and Phytophthora ramorum. The rhizoxin analogs also caused swelling of rice roots, a symptom characteristic of rhizoxin itself, but were less toxic to pea and cucumber roots. Of the rhizoxin analogs produced by Pf-5, the predominant compound, WF-1360 F, and the newly described compound 22Z-WF-1360 F were most toxic against the two plant pathogens and three plant species. These rhizoxin analogs were tested against a panel of human cancer lines, and they exhibited potent but nonselective cytotoxicity. This study highlights the value of the genomic sequence of the soil bacterium P. fluorescens Pf-5 in providing leads for the discovery of novel metabolites with significant biological properties.
18344350	Incorporation of plant residues strongly enhances the methane production and emission from flooded rice fields. Temperature and residue type are important factors that regulate residue decomposition and CH(4) production. However, the response of the methanogenic archaeal community to these factors in rice field soil is not well understood. In the present experiment, the structure of the archaeal community was determined during the decomposition of rice root and straw residues in anoxic rice field soil incubated at three temperatures (15 degrees C, 30 degrees C, and 45 degrees C). More CH(4) was produced in the straw treatment than root treatment. Increasing the temperature from 15 degrees C to 45 degrees C enhanced CH(4) production. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses in combination with cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes showed that Methanosarcinaceae developed early in the incubations, whereas Methanosaetaceae became more abundant in the later stages. Methanosarcinaceae and Methanosaetaceae seemed to be better adapted at 15 degrees C and 30 degrees C, respectively, while the thermophilic Methanobacteriales and rice cluster I methanogens were significantly enhanced at 45 degrees C. Straw residues promoted the growth of Methanosarcinaceae, whereas the root residues favored Methanosaetaceae. In conclusion, our study revealed a highly dynamic structure of the methanogenic archaeal community during plant residue decomposition. The in situ concentration of acetate (and possibly of H(2)) seems to be the key factor that regulates the shift of methanogenic community.
18344407	Magnaporthe grisea is a model fungus for studying fungus-plant interactions. Two mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase genes, PMK1 and MPS1, have been implicated in regulating plant infection processes in M. grisea. However, transcription factors activated by these MAP kinases are not well studied. In this study we functionally characterized the MIG1 gene that encodes a MADS-box transcription factor homologous to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rlm1. In yeast two-hybrid assays, MIG1 interacts with MPS1, suggesting that MIG1 may function downstream from the MPS1 pathway. The mig1 deletion mutant had a normal growth rate and formed melanized appressoria, but it was nonpathogenic and failed to infect rice leaves through wounds. Appressoria formed by the mig1 mutant developed penetration pegs and primary infectious hyphae, but further differentiation of the secondary infectious hyphae inside live plant cells was blocked. However, the mig1 mutant formed infectious hypha-like structures in heat-killed plant cells or cellophane membranes. In transformants expressing the MIG1-GFP fusion, green fluorescent protein (GFP) signals were not detectable in vegetative hyphae and conidiophores. Mig1-GFP was localized to nuclei in conidia, appressoria, and infectious hyphae. Deletion of the MADS box had no effect on the expression and localization of the MIG1-GFP fusion but eliminated its ability to complement the mig1 mutant. These results suggest that MIG1 may be required for overcoming plant defense responses and the differentiation of secondary infectious hyphae in live plant cells. The MADS-box domain is essential for the function of MIG1 but dispensable for its nuclear localization, which may be associated with the activation of MIG1 by MPS1 during conidiation and plant infection.
18345260	The aim of this study was to determine glycaemic index (GI) of 10 popular foodstuffs/mixed meals in healthy persons. Ten tested foodstuffs and glucose standard were consumed in three replicates in the course of a defined 9-day meal plan: puffed rice squares with chocolate, dark chocolate, white bread, honey and glucose for breakfast (at 7 a.m.) and dinner (at 8 p.m.); pasta with meat, fried fish with mashed potatoes, and buttered apricot dumplings for lunch (at 12 a.m.); wafers, puffed spelt squares with chocolate, and tomato soup for snack (at 4 p.m.). Each portion contained 50 g of carbohydrates and was consumed within 30 minutes. Glucose concentrations were measured by means of the Continous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS, Medtronic Minimed, Northridge, CA, USA). The results were processed by Solutions Software (Medtronic Minimed, Northridge, CA, USA) and DegifXL4 software, Palack University, Olomouc, CZ. Twenty healthy persons aged 21.9 +/- 1.39 y (mean +/- SE), BMI 23.6 +/- 0.63 kg/m(2) completed the study. GI of tested foodstuffs ranged from 34.7 % (chocolate) to 105.3 % (puffed rice squares with chocolate). There were more than tenfold differences between minimal and maximal values of the GI for some foodstuffs. Significant interindividual differences were found between GIs of foodstuffs. In twenty healthy persons the glycaemic indexes of ten popular foodstuffs were determined, to be added to the nutritional labels in order to facilitate the optimum meal planning.
18345885	Fragmentation of metastable SF(6)(-*) ions formed in low energy electron attachment to SF(6) has been investigated. The dissociation reaction SF(6)(-*)-->SF(5) (-)+F has been observed approximately 1.5-3.4 micros and approximately 17-32 micros after electron attachment in a time-of-flight and a double focusing two sector field mass spectrometer, respectively. Metastable dissociation is observed with maximum intensity at approximately 0.3 eV between the SF(6)(-*) peak at zero and the SF(5)(-) peak at approximately 0.4 eV. The kinetic energy released in dissociation is low, with a most probable value of 18 meV. The lifetime of SF(6)(-*) decreases as the electron energy increases, but it is not possible to fit this decrease with statistical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel/quasiequilibrium theory. Metastable dissociation of SF(6)(-*) appears to compete with autodetachment of the electron at all electron energies.
18346078	Ethylene signal transduction initiates with ethylene binding at receptor proteins and terminates in a transcription cascade involving the EIN3/EIL transcription factors. Here, we have isolated four cDNAs homologs of the Arabidopsis EIN3/EIN3-like gene, MA-EILs (Musa acuminata ethylene insensitive 3-like) from banana fruit. Sequence comparison with other banana EIL gene already registered in the database led us to conclude that, at this day, at least five different genes namely MA-EIL1, MA-EIL2/AB266318, MA-EIL3/AB266319, MA-EIL4/AB266320 and AB266321 exist in banana. Phylogenetic analyses included all banana EIL genes within a same cluster consisting of rice OsEILs, a monocotyledonous plant as banana. However, MA-EIL1, MA-EIL2/AB266318, MA-EIL4/AB266320 and AB266321 on one side, and MA-EIL3/AB266319 on the other side, belong to two distant subclusters. MA-EIL mRNAs were detected in all examined banana tissues but at lower level in peel than in pulp. According to tissues, MA-EIL genes were differentially regulated by ripening and ethylene in mature green fruit and wounding in old and young leaves. MA-EIL2/AB266318 was the unique ripening- and ethylene-induced gene; MA-EIL1, MA-EIL4/Ab266320 and AB266321 genes were downregulated, while MA-EIL3/AB266319 presented an unusual pattern of expression. Interestingly, a marked change was observed mainly in MA-EIL1 and MA-EIL3/Ab266319 mRNA accumulation concomitantly with changes in ethylene responsiveness of fruit. Upon wounding, the main effect was observed in MA-EIL4/AB266320 and AB266321 mRNA levels, which presented a markedly increase in both young and old leaves, respectively. Data presented in this study suggest the importance of a transcriptionally step control in the regulation of EIL genes during banana fruit ripening.
18346108	Mutational load and resource allocation factors and their effects on limiting seed set were investigated in ryegrass by comparative mapping genomics and quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis in two perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) mapping families sharing common genetic markers. Quantitative trait loci for seed-set were identified on chromosome (LG) 7 in both families and on LG4 of the F2/WSC family. On LG7, seed-set and heading date QTLs colocalized in both families and cannot be unequivocally resolved. Comparative genomics suggests that the LG7 region is syntenous to a region of rice LG6 which contains both fertility (S5(n)) and heading date (Hd1, Hd3a) candidate genes. The LG4 region is syntenous to a region of rice LG3 which contains a fertility (S33) candidate gene. QTL maxima for seed-set and heading date on LG4 in the F2/WSC family are separated by c. 8 cm, indicating distinct genetic control. Low seed set is under the control of recessive genes at both LG4 and LG7 locations. The identification of QTLs associated with seed set, a major component of seed yield in perennial ryegrass, indicates that mutational load associated with these genomic regions can be mitigated through marker-assisted selection.
18348407	To study the contamination of total aflatoxins (AFs) in different kinds of foods including corn, peanut, rice, walnut, and pine nut in six provinces and two municipalities in China. A total of 283 samples of corn, peanut, rice, walnut and pine nut were randomly collected from local markets in Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hubei, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang provinces, as well as in Shanghai and Chongqing municipalities. The samples were ground to which acetonitrile/water solution was added. After filtering, the extract was transferred into a MycoSep purifying column and was pressed slowly. Then the purified liquid was derivatized with trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) and assayed using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). AFs were detected in 70.27% of corn samples, with a mean level of 27.44 microg/kg and the highest level of 1098.36 microg/kg. In peanut, the AFs detection rate was 23.08%, with a mean level of 0.82 microg/kg and the highest level of 28.39 microg/kg. Very few rice samples with AFs were detected. The AFs levels were very low in walnut and pine nut. Corn is the food most seriously contaminated with AFs in China. AFB1 is the main aflatoxin which is found as a contaminant in foods.
18348812	Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) (Hemiptera:Delphacidae) is a serious migratory pest of rice in Asia. Pest resurgence often occurs because of insecticide overuse. Using both susceptible (TN1) and moderately resistant (Xieyou 963) cultivars, we studied the effect of foliar insecticides on the percentage of brachypterous adults, female reproductive rate, and crude fat and soluble sugar contents in third- and fifth-instar nymphs and adults. The percentage of brachypterous adults and reproductive rate of adult females developed from nymphs that fed on insecticide-treated plants varied significantly with rice cultivar, type of insecticide, and its concentration. Feeding on susceptible plants increased the percentage of brachypterous adults and reproductive rate of adult females. Also, deltamethrin increased brachypterous production relative to imidacloprid and triazophos. The highest reproductive rate was on plants treated with triazophos. All insecticide treatments in both cultivars resulted in increase of soluble sugar contents in third- and fifth-instar nymphs and adults developed from nymphs feeding on insecticide-treated rice plants. This effect was stronger on the susceptible cultivar. Changes of crude fat content after N. lugens feeding on insecticide-treated plants were related to its feeding duration. Crude fat content in adult developed from nymphs feeding on treated plants was significantly higher that on control plants. These studies showed that plant and insecticide influences on physiological ecology of this planthopper will influence its population dynamics under commercial production of rice in Asia.
18349507	Using high-yielding hybrid rice 'Liangyoupeijiu' (LYP9) and hybrid rice 'Shanyou 63' (SY63) as the experimental materials and using (14)C radio-autography, the photosynthetic capacities and distribution of photosynthates in flag leaf blades and sheaths of LYP9 were studied. The results showed that net photosynthetic rates (Pn) of the flag leaf blades and sheaths of LYP9 were much higher than those of SY63; the light transmissivity rates (LT) measured at the medium height of the flag leaf sheaths and the penultimate leaf sheaths were also significantly higher than those of SY63. The incipient activities, total activities and activation percentages of Rubisco in the flag leaf blade and sheath of LYP9 were all higher than those of SY63. The photosynthate transport rate in the sheaths of LYP9, and the quantity of photosynthate transported to the spikes and transformed to economic yield of LYP9 were all higher than those of SY63. The photosynthates produced by the sheaths were mainly transported to spike to make a certain contribution (about 15%) to yield.
18349508	By observing the photosynthetic responses of leaves to changes in light intensity and CO(2) concentration it was found that among the more than 50 plant species examined 32 species and 25 species showed respectively the V pattern and L pattern of the photosynthetic response to light intensity transition from saturating to limiting one (Figs.1 and 2 and Table 1). The pattern of photosynthetic response to light intensity transition is species-dependent but not leaf developmental stage-dependent (Fig.3). The species-dependence was not related to classification in taxonomy because the photosynthetic response might display the two different patterns (V and L) in plants of the same family, for example, rice and wheat (Gramineae), soybean and peanut (Leguminosae). It seemed to be related to the pathway of photosynthetic carbon assimilation because all of the C(4) plants examined (maize, green bristlegrass and thorny amaranth) displayed the L pattern. It might be related to light environment where the plants originated. The V pattern of photosynthetic response to light intensity transition was often observed in some plants grown in shade habitats, for example, sweet viburnum and Japan fatsia, while the L pattern was frequently observed in those plants grown in sunny habitats, for example, ginkgo and cotton. Furthermore, the ratio of electron transport rate to carboxylation rate in vivo measured at limiting light was far higher in the V pattern plants (mostly higher than 10) than in the L pattern plants (mostly lower than 5), but the ratio measured at saturating light had no significant difference between the two kinds of plants (Table 2). These results can be explained in part by that the V pattern plant species have larger light-harvesting complex (LHCII) and at saturating light the reversible dissociation of some LHCIIs from PSII reaction center complex occurs. The pattern of photosynthetic response to light intensity transition and the ratio of electron transport rate to carboxylation rate in vivo measured at limiting light can probably be used as a criterion to distinguish sun plants from shade plants. In the observation of photosynthetic response to light intensity transition the use of saturating light is very important because using non-saturating light can form an artifact, which leads to incorrect conclusion (Fig.4).
18349511	Wild banana species are essential natural gene pools for banana improvement. In this study, six RGAs about 500 bp were obtained from leaves of Musa acuminata, a wild banana shown to be resistant to banana Fusarium wilt race 4, by PCR amplification with degenerate primers designed according to the conserved NBS motif and serine/threonine kinase domain of plant resistance (R) genes. Among these RGAs, the deduced amino acids of WNB1 and WNB2 contain NB-ARC domain and WNB1 can be translated into polypeptide uninterrupted by stop codons. The deduced amino acids of other four RGAs (WST1, WST2, WST3 and WST4) all contain the serine/threonine kinase domain and WST3 encodes a polypeptide homologous to that of bacterial blight resistance gene Xa21 of rice. At different time after inoculation with Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense (FOC) race 4, the transcript patterns of WNB1 and WST3 was enhanced, which implied that the expression of WNB1 and WST3 may be related to the resistance of banana to Fusarium wilt.
18349514	Compared to Pi-ta(-) alleles, Pi-ta(+) alleles can cause blast resistance response. In this work, Pi-ta gene in multiple rice materials, including local rice cultivars, different types of O. rufipogon and O. longistaminata was detected by molecular cloning and sequence analysis. Results indicated that Pi-ta(+) alleles were rare alleles, because in all the tested materials, only the 'Erect' type of O. rufipogon (ETOR) from Jinghong county in Yunnan province contains a Pi-ta(+) allele. Another rice blast resistance gene, Pib, confers resistance to the Japanese strain of M. grisea, was also confirmed to be functional in this type of O. rufipogon. The results of pathogen inoculation test show that ETOR is more strongly resistant to the tested blast pathogen races than other types of O. rufipogon. The resistance of ETOR may at least partially depend upon the functioning of Pi-ta and Pib gene. As O. rufipogon has the same type of genome with the cultivated rice (O. sativa), Pi-ta(+) and Pib gene in Erect type of O. rufipogon can be used to improve the tolerance of cultivated rice to blast, either by traditional hybridization or by genetic engineering.
18349516	To provide a useful piece of information for the choice of molecular markers to be used in selection of drought tolerance, mRNA differential display was used to isolate genes from a drought-tolerant maize inbred line '81565'. After drought stress, two down-regulated expression gene fragments (MD1 and MD2) and one up-regulated expression fragment (MD3) were obtained. Results of sequence and homology analysis show that MD1 has 97% similarity with matK in maize chloroplast genome, a gene encoding RNA maturase involved in group II intron splicing of RNA transcript; MD2 has 99% similarity with the gene serine/threonine phosphorylase 2C in Sporobolus stapfianus; and MD3 has 99% similarity with rice the gene encoding metacaspase, an arginine/lysine-specific cysteine protease. Based on the sequence of fragment MD2, a new member of maize PP2C gene family, ZmPP2Ca, was cloned by in silicon cloning and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (FQ-PCR) showed that expression of the gene was down-regulated in the three drought-tolerant lines ('81565', 'N87-1' and 'R09') and up-regulated in the two drought-sensitive lines ('200B' and 'ES40') under drought stress.
18350057	An in-plane light scattering setup that is capable of measuring large azimuthal scattering angles is presented. This type of measurement makes it easier to probe large k(parallel) at a fixed k(perpendicular) value (k(parallel) and k(perpendicular) are momentum transfer vectors parallel and perpendicular to the surface, respectively). Therefore the system allows us to explore small lateral scale and large vertical roughness (approximately lambda, the wavelength of the probe beam) of a rough surface. In-plane intensity measurements from a rough backside Si wafer and a Cu thin-film surface are reported. The structure factor that is related to surface roughness parameters is obtained from the measured in-plane intensity profiles. Both scalar (Beckmann-Kirchhoff) and vector (Rayleigh-Rice) theories have been applied to interpret the experimental data. The roughness parameters obtained from the scattering measurements are compared with those measured by atomic-force microscopy.
18350155	Plant transgenic technology has been widely utilized for engineering crops for trait improvements and for production of high value proteins such as pharmaceuticals. However, the unintended spreading of commercial transgenic crops by pollination and seed dispersal is a major concern for environmental and food safety. Simple and reliable containment strategies for transgenes are highly desirable. Here we report a novel method for creating selectively terminable transgenic rice. In this method, the gene(s) of interest is tagged with a RNA interference cassette, which specifically suppresses the expression of the bentazon detoxification enzyme CYP81A6 and thus renders transgenic rice to be sensitive to bentazon, a herbicide used for rice weed control. We generated transgenic rice plants by this method using a new glyphosate resistant 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) gene from Pesudomonas putida as the gene of interest, and demonstrated that these transgenic rice plants were highly sensitive to bentazon but tolerant to glyphosate, which is exactly the opposite of conventional rice. Field trial of these transgenic rice plants further confirmed that they can be selectively killed at 100% by one spray of bentazon at a regular dose used for conventional rice weed control. Furthermore, we found that the terminable transgenic rice created in this study shows no difference in growth, development and yield compared to its non-transgenic control. Therefore, this method of creating transgenic rice constitutes a novel strategy of transgene containment, which appears simple, reliable and inexpensive for implementation.
18350165	Endogenous microRNAs (miRNAs) are potent negative regulators of gene expression in plants and animals. Artificial miRNAs (amiRNAs)-designed to target one or several genes of interest-provide a new and highly specific approach for effective post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) in plants. We devised an amiRNA-based strategy for both japonica and indica type strains of cultivated rice, Oryza sativa. Using an endogenous rice miRNA precursor and customized 21mers, we designed amiRNA constructs targeting three different genes (Pds, Spl11, and Eui1/CYP714D1). Upon constitutive expression of these amiRNAs in the varieties Nipponbare (japonica) and IR64 (indica), the targeted genes are down-regulated by amiRNA-guided cleavage of the transcripts, resulting in the expected mutant phenotypes. The effects are highly specific to the target gene, the transgenes are stably inherited and they remain effective in the progeny. Our results not only show that amiRNAs can efficiently trigger gene silencing in a monocot crop, but also that amiRNAs can effectively modulate agronomically important traits in varieties used in modern breeding programs. We provide all software tools and a protocol for the design of rice amiRNA constructs, which can be easily adapted to other crops. The approach is suited for candidate gene validation, comparative functional genomics between different varieties, and for improvement of agronomic performance and nutritional value.
18350805	Autologous chondrocyte transplantation is applied in patients with symptomatic articular cartilage defect due to a prior unsuccessful procedure on damaged cartilage, with a purpose to regenerate the cartilage. The procedure starts with an orthopedic surgeon establishing chondral defect in a joint and, during the knee arthroscopy, referring to the laboratory a cartilage biopsy specimen of a rice size from a non-weight-bearing part of the joint (usually the lateral part of the knee trochlea). Qualified biologists and technicians at the laboratory will then separate the cartilage cells from the extracellular matrix, followed by storing parts of healthy cartilage (300-500 mg) into a medium containing antibiotics, antimycotics and ascorbic acid, Individual cartilage cells (chondrocytes) will be isolated by enzymatic digestion. Chondrocytes are finally grown in sterile conditions in the patient's autologous serum during the next 14-21 days. During that time, the culture medium is tested several times in the micro laboratory and the cells' chondrogenic phenotype is determined. Multiplied chondrocytes are then removed from the bottom of the dish, washed several times, counted and prepared in a low volume medium (50-100 microL) suitable for implantation into the injured joint. During the surgery, orthopedic surgeon injects the cell implant under the periosteum or a similar biological membrane covering the defect. Active joint movement starts after 2-3 days, and full weight bearing is achieved in the next several weeks, following the rehabilitation protocol. Full physical condition is achieved within one year. Autologous chondrocyte transplantation is used for treatment of focal articular cartilage defects in the early stages of the disease, thus preventing or delaying progression to osteoarthritis and, consequently, replacement of the joint by an endoprosthesis.
18350849	To describe the caries and periodontal status of children in rural Cambodia and to study their oral health habits. Field examinations were conducted in Pailin, Kampong Thom and Kratie which are three rural districts in Cambodia. Children aged 6 and aged 12 were selected for report of caries status of primary and permanent teeth respectively. The periodontal status of the 12-year-old children in Kampong Thom and Kratie were assessed. A parental questionnaire survey was performed to study the children's tooth brushing habits, snacks habits and their diet. A total of 120 6-year-old children and 196 12-year-old children were examined. The caries experience (dmft) of the 6-year-old children was 7.9 +/- 5.6. The caries experience (DMFT) of the 12-year-old children was 1.1 +/- 1.6 and all were untreated caries (DT). None of the surveyed 12-year-old children had healthy gums and 62% had calculus. A total of 316 questionnaires were collected. The result found 44% and 22% of the 6- and 12- year-old children had never brushed. Their meals were all mainly rice, soup and congee and snacks were not common. The caries experience of the 6-year-old children was high and most of the caries was untreated. The 12-year-old children had a mean score of 1.1 DMFT in their permanent teeth. They all had bleeding gums and more than half had calculus. Their oral health habits need to improve as many children never brushed their teeth.
18350916	The toxicity of methylmercury (Me-Hg) has caused widespread public human concern as a result of several widely publicized disasters. Me-Hg is highly toxic, and the nervous system is its principal target tissue for humans. Although the general population is primarily exposed to Me-Hg through contaminated fish and marine mammals, in Hg mining areas a long history of mining activities can produce serious Hg pollution to the local environment In a study of 98 persons from the Wanshan Hg mining area, hair Me-Hg levels indicated Me-Hg exposure. Rice, the staple food of the local inhabitants also showed high total Hg (T-Hg) and Me-Hg levels. The geometric mean concentration of T-Hg and mean concentration of Me-Hg in rice samples collected from 3 villages in Wanshan Hg mining area were 36.2 (ranging from 4.9 to 214.7), and 8.5 (ranging from 1.9 to 27.6) microg/kg, respectively, which were significantly elevated compared to the rice samples collected from a reference area, where the mean T-Hg and Me-Hg concentrations were 7.0 (3.2-15.1) and 2.5 (0.8-4.3) microg/kg, respectively. Pork meat, vegetable, and drinking water samples collected in Wanshan Hg mining area contained highly elevated T-Hg, but very low levels of Me-Hg. The relationships between the estimated rice Me-Hg intake and hair Me-Hg levels (r = 0.65, p < 0.001) confirmed rice with high Me-Hg levels indeed was the main route of Me-Hg exposure for the local residents in the Wanshan Hg mining area. From our study, we can conclude that the main human exposure to Me-Hg via food consumption is not restricted to fish, but in some cases in mining areas of China to frequent rice meals.
18351071	Synchrotron-based X-ray fluorescence (S-XRF) was utilized to locate arsenic (As) in polished (white) and unpolished (brown) rice grains from the United States, China, and Bangladesh. In white rice As was generally dispersed throughout the grain, the bulk of which constitutes the endosperm. In brown rice As was found to be preferentially localized at the surface, in the region corresponding to the pericarp and aleurone layer. Copper, iron, manganese, and zinc localization followed that of arsenic in brown rice, while the location for cadmium and nickel was distinctly different, showing relatively even distribution throughout the endosperm. The localization of As in the outer grain of brown rice was confirmed by laser ablation ICP-MS. Arsenic speciation of all grains using spatially resolved X-ray absorption near edge structure (micro-XANES) and bulk extraction followed by anion exchange HPLC-ICP-MS revealed the presence of mainly inorganic As and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). However, the two techniques indicated different proportions of inorganic:organic As species. A wider survey of whole grain speciation of white (n=39) and brown (n=45) rice samples from numerous sources (field collected, supermarket survey, and pot trials) showed that brown rice had a higher proportion of inorganic arsenic present than white rice. Furthermore, the percentage of DMA present in the grain increased along with total grain arsenic.
18351094	Picloram, a widely used chlorinated herbicide, is quite persistent and mobile in soil and water with adverse health and environmental effects. It is essential to establish a rapid and sensitive method for accurate detection of trace picloram in agricultural samples. We employed a disposable, nontoxic, and conductive chitosan/gold nanoparticles composite membrane on electrochemical sensor for the sensitive detection of picloram in several agricultural field samples. A self-synthesized picloram antibody was encapsulated in the immunomembrane to form an immunoconjugate by a competitive immunoreaction in sample solution, followed by the immobilization of horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled secondary antibody. The immunomembrane possessed good reproducibility for fabrication in batch, providing a congenial microenvironment for the immune molecules. The diffused colloidal Au nanoparticles shuttled the electron transfer between the immobilized HRP and the electrode surface. To demonstrate the suitability of the immunosensor for on-site detection, rice, lettuce, and paddy field water were spiked with picloram and assayed without preconcentration. Under optimal conditions, picloram could be detected in the range from 0.005 to 10 microg/mL with the correlation coefficient of 0.9937, and the detection limit is 5 ng/ mL. The proposed immunosensor exhibited good precision, sensitivity, selectivity, and storage stability.
18352497	Using a combination of local density functional theory and cluster exact diagonalization based dynamical mean field theory, we calculate many-body electronic structures of several Mott insulating oxides including undoped high T(c) materials. The dispersions of the lowest occupied electronic states are associated with the Zhang-Rice singlets in cuprates and with doublets, triplets, quadruplets, and quintets in more general cases. Our results agree with angle resolved photoemission experiments including the decrease of the spectral weight of the Zhang-Rice band as it approaches k=0.
18353984	Small RNAs (21-24 nt) are involved in gene regulation through translation inhibition, mRNA cleavage, or directing chromatin modifications. In rice, currently approximately 240 microRNAs (miRNAs) have been annotated. We sequenced more than four million small RNAs from rice and identified another 24 miRNA genes. Among these, we found a unique class of miRNAs that derive from natural cis-antisense transcript pairs. This configuration generates miRNAs that can perfectly match their targets. We provide evidence that the miRNAs function by inducing mRNA cleavage in the middle of their complementary site. Their production requires Dicer-like 1 (DCL1) activity, which is essential for canonical miRNA biogenesis. All of the natural antisense miRNAs (nat-miRNAs) identified in this study have large introns in their precursors that appear critical for nat-miRNA evolution and for the formation of functional miRNA loci. These findings suggest that other natural cis-antisense loci with similar exon-intron arrangements could be another source of miRNA genes.
18354041	Plant MADS-box genes can be divided into 11 groups. Genetic analysis has revealed that most of them function in flowering-time control, reproductive organ development, and vegetative growth. Here, we elucidated the role of OsMADS26, a member of the AGL12 group. Transcript levels of OsMADS26 were increased in an age-dependent manner in the shoots and roots. Transgenic plants of both rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) overexpressing this gene manifested phenotypes related to stress responses, such as chlorosis, cell death, pigment accumulation, and defective root/shoot growth. In addition, apical hook development was significantly suppressed in Arabidopsis. Plants transformed with the OsMADS26-GR (glucocorticoid receptor) fusion construct displayed those stress-related phenotypes when treated with dexamethasone. Microarray analyses using this inducible system showed that biosynthesis genes for jasmonate, ethylene, and reactive oxygen species, as well as putative downstream targets involved in the stress-related process, were up-regulated in OsMADS26-overexpressing plants. These results suggest that OsMADS26 induces multiple responses that are related to various stresses.
18355275	Enterobacter intermedium 60-2G, a phosphate solubilizing bacterium, has the ability to induce systemic resistance in plants against soft rot pathogen Erwinia carotovora. Glucose dehydrogenase, an enzyme that utilizes pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) as a cofactor, is required for the synthesis of gluconic acid by E. intermedium 60-2G. Here, we report that the pqqA and pqqB genes are required for phosphate solubilization and induced systemic resistance against a soft rot pathogen in tobacco. Mutations in either the pqqA or pqqB gene abolished the production of 2-ketogluconic acid and eliminated the ability of E. intermedium to solubilize hydroxyapatite. Addition of gluconic acid to the growth media restored the ability of the pqqA mutant to produce 2-ketogluconic acid. Interestingly, both pqqA and pqqB mutants of E. intermedium lost their ability to inhibit the growth of the rice pathogen Magnaporthe grisea KI-409. Additionally, induced systemic resistance against the soft rot pathogen was attenuated in the pqq mutants. These functions were restored by complementation with the wild-type pqq gene cluster. Our findings suggest that PQQ plays an important function in beneficial traits including phosphate solubilization, antifungal activity, and induced systemic resistance of E. intermedium, possibly by acting as a cofactor for several enzymes including glucose dehydrogenase.
18355761	Anther dehiscence is very important for pollen maturation and release. The mutants of anther dehiscence in rice (Oryza sativa L.) are few, and related research remains poor. A male sterility mutant of anther dehiscence in advance, add(t), has been found in Minghui 63 and its sterility is not sensitive to thermo-photo. To learn the character of sterilization and the function of the add(t) gene, the morphological and cytological studies on the anther and pollen, the ability of the pistil being fertilized, inheritance of the mutant, and mapping of add(t) gene have been conducted. The anther size is normal but the color is white in the mutant against the natural yellow in the wild-type. The pollen is malformed, unstained, and small in the KI-I(2) solution. The anther dehiscence is in advance at the bicellular pollen stage. A crossing test indicated that the grain setting ratio of the add(t) is significantly lower than that of the CMS line 2085A. The ability of the pistil being fertilized is most probably decreased by the add(t) gene. The male sterility is controlled by a single recessive gene of add(t). This gene is mapped between the markers of R02004 (InDel) and RM300 (SSR) on chromosome 2, and the genetic distance from the add(t) gene to these markers is 0.78 cM and 4.66 cM, respectively.
18356937	Whole copies of the polygalacturonase (PG) genes from rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica) and a filamentous fungus (Aspergillus oryzae) were isolated. The orthologs of the rice PGs were also retrieved from other plant species. The 106 plant PGs analyzed were divided into 5 clades, A, B, C, D, and E. The fungus PGs were classified into 3 clades, of which one formed a loose cluster with clade E of the plant PGs. Four domain motifs (I, II, III, IV) were identified in all PGs. Motifs II and III were split by introns such as G/DDC and CGPGHGIS/IGSLG, respectively. In plant PGs there were 446 introns in total and 3.98 introns per gene. Intron phase distribution was 65.5% for phase 0, 19.7% for phase 1, and 14.8% for phase 2 in plant PGs. In the PGs of A. oryzae there were 37 introns of phase 0 (59.5%), phase 1 (24.3%), and phase 2 (16.2%), with 2.47 introns per gene. The 5 clades of plant PGs were divided into 3 basic gene structure lineages. Intron positions and phases were conserved among the PGs in the first 2 lineages. The third lineage consisted of PGs of clade E, which also carried highly conserved introns at different positions from other PGs. Intron positions were not as highly conserved in fungus PGs as in plant PGs. The introns in the current PGs have been present since before the divergence of monocots from dicots. The results obtained show that differential losses of introns created gene diversity, which was followed by segmental and tandem duplication in plant PGs.
18356938	An efficient system was developed, and several variables tested, for generating a large-scale insertional-mutagenesis population of rice. The most important feature in this improved Ac/Ds tagging system is that one can conveniently carry out large-scale screening in the field and select transposants at the seedling stage. Rice was transformed with a plasmid that includes a Basta-resistance gene (bar). After the Ds element is excised during transposition, bar becomes adjacent to the ubiquitin promoter, and the rice plant becomes resistant to the herbicide Basta. In principle, one can plant up to one million plants in the field and select those plants that survive after spraying with Basta. To test the utility of this system, 4 Ds starter lines were crossed with 14 different Ac plants, and many transposants were successfully identified after planting 134,285 F2 plants in the field. Over 2,800 of these transposants were randomly chosen for PCR analysis, and the results fully confirmed the reliability of the field screening procedure.
18356942	Genome-wide simple sequence repeat (SSR) information was analyzed together with functional annotations of Arabidopsis genes and public gene expression data for Arabidopsis and rice. Analysis of more than 15,000 Arabidopsis and more than 16,000 rice SSRs indicated that SSRs may affect the expression of hundreds of genes. Data from experiments on DNA methylation, histone acetylation, and transcript turnover suggest that SSRs may affect gene expression at transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. Members of some functional groups were shown to be enriched with SSRs and often contained similar but non-homologous repeats within the same gene regions. In addition, the distribution of perfect and imperfect SSRs in some Arabidopsis, maize, and rice genes was used to demonstrate how two-level control of SSR variation may contribute to protein evolution.
18356943	Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers are valuable tools for many purposes such as phylogenetic, fingerprinting, and molecular breeding studies. However, only a few SSR markers are known and available in bamboo species of the tropics (Bambusa spp.). Considering that grass genomes have co-evolved and share large-scale synteny, theoretically it should be possible to use the genome sequence based SSR markers of field crops such as rice (Oryza sativa) and sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) for genome analysis in bamboo. To test this, 98 mapped SSR primers representing 12 linkage groups of rice and 20 EST-derived sugarcane SSR primers were evaluated for transferability to 23 bamboo species. Of the tested markers, 44 (44.9%) rice and 15 (75%) sugarcane SSR primers showed repeatable amplification in at least one species of bamboo and thus were successfully utilized for phylogenetic and genetic diversity analyses. Transferred SSR primers revealed complex amplification patterns in bamboo, with an average of 9.62 fragments per primer, indicating a high level of polyploidy and genetic variability in bamboo. Forty-two of these primers (34 rice and 8 sugarcane SSR primers) detected an average of 2.12 unique fragments per primer and thus could be exploited for species identification. Six bamboo SSR primers exhibited cross transferability, to varying degrees, to different bamboo species. The genetic similarity coefficient indicated a high level of divergence at the species level (73%). However, a relatively low level of diversity was observed within species (25% in 20 accessions of Dendrocalamus hamiltonii). Further, cluster analysis revealed that the major grouping was in accordance with the taxonomical classification of bamboo. Thus, the rice and sugarcane SSRs can be utilized for phylogenetic and genetic diversity studies in bamboo.
18356944	The elongation of the cooked grain determines the cooking and eating quality of Basmati rice. The identification of stable quantitative trait loci (QTLs), especially those from non-Basmati types, will extend the genetic basis of the Basmati type and facilitate the breeding of high-quality varieties. A set of recombinant inbred lines derived from an indica x japonica hybrid was used to identify QTLs controlling the elongation ratio (ER), elongation index (EI), and water absorption (WA) of the cooked grain. Three ER QTLs on chromosomes 2, 4, and 12, two EI QTLs on chromosomes 2 and 5, and two WA QTLs on chromosomes 2 and 6 were detected. Four of these QTLs were validated using a set of established chromosome segment substitution lines. The genetic effect of qER-2 was explored in an analysis of segregating generations, using 8 newly developed simple sequence repeat markers. Two tightly linked loci (qER-2a and qER-2b) were identified on chromosome 2.
18356966	xs1 is a male-sterile rice mutant derived from a spontaneous mutation. The floret of the mutant, consisting of 6 stamens and 1 pistil, looks the same as that of the wild type except that the filaments are long and thin and the anthers are withered in white transparence. It is confirmed that xs1 is a no-pollen type of male-sterile mutant, for no pollen grains can be stained with I(2)-KI solution and the anther locules are always hollow. Anther transverse sections indicate that the mutant microspores are abnormally condensed and agglomerated to form a deeply stained cluster at the late microspore stage, which results in cessation of the vacuolation process of microspores, and, therefore, the mutant forms no functional pollens for reproduction. Genetic analysis of 4 F(2) populations and 3 BC(1)F(1) populations revealed that the mutation is controlled by a single recessive gene, termed VR1 (Vacuolation retardation 1). Screening of 432 F(2) mutant individuals derived from the cross of xs1 x G603 with simple sequence repeat markers revealed that VR1 is located between the molecular markers RM17411 and RM5030, at distances of 0.7 and 1.5 cM, respectively, on chromosome 4. VR1 is a new male fertility controlling gene located on chromosome 4 in rice.
18357065	A high-frequency-modulation spectrometer with a lead-salt diode laser operating in the nu(4) band of CH(4) at 7.8 mum was used as a fast chemical sensor to measure ambient methane concentrations of 2 ppmv (parts in 10(6) volume-mixing ratio) with a time resolution of 10 Hz for micrometeorological flux measurements. To assess the quality of the data on methane emissions from rice paddy fields, we compared eddy-correlation measurements with simultaneously recorded emission data from the state-of-the-art closed-chamber technique and showed that the closed-chamber measurements were 60%-90% higher than were the eddy-correlation measurements during the campaign. This outcome demonstrates that diode-laser spectroscopy is a valuable tool for quality assurance.
18357413	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, endogenous RNAs that regulate gene expression in both plants and animals. A large number of miRNAs has been identified from various animals and model plant species such as Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa); however, characteristics of wheat (Triticum aestivum) miRNAs are poorly understood. Here, computational identification of miRNAs from wheat EST sequences was preformed by using the in-house program GenomicSVM, a prediction model for miRNAs. This study resulted in the discovery of 79 miRNA candidates. Nine out of 22 miRNA representatives randomly selected from the 79 candidates were experimentally validated with Northern blotting, indicating that prediction accuracy is about 40%. For the 9 validated miRNAs, 59 wheat ESTs were predicted as their putative targets.
18357620	Phytic acid (PA) is the primary storage compound of phosphorus in seeds accounting for up to 80% of the total seed phosphorus and contributing as much as 1.5% to the seed dry weight. The negatively charged phosphate in PA strongly binds to metallic cations of Ca, Fe, K, Mg, Mn and Zn making them insoluble and thus unavailable as nutritional factors. Phytate mainly accumulates in protein storage vacuoles as globoids, predominantly located in the aleurone layer (wheat, barley and rice) or in the embryo (maize). During germination, phytate is hydrolysed by endogenous phytase(s) and other phosphatases to release phosphate, inositol and micronutrients to support the emerging seedling. PA and its derivatives are also implicated in RNA export, DNA repair, signalling, endocytosis and cell vesicular trafficking. Our recent studies on purification of phytate globoids, their mineral composition and dephytinization by wheat phytase will be discussed. Biochemical data for purified and characterized phytases isolated from more than 23 plant species are presented, the dephosphorylation pathways of phytic acid by different classes of phytases are compared, and the application of phytase in food and feed is discussed.
18357629	To investigate the Fe2+ effects on root tips in rice plant, experiments were carried out using border cells in vitro. The border cells were pre-planted in aeroponic culture and detached from root tips. Most border cells have a long elliptical shape. The number and the viability of border cells in situ reached the maxima of 1600 and 97.5%, respectively, at 20-25 mm root length. This mortality was more pronounced at the first 1-12 h exposure to 250 mg/L Fe2+ than at the last 12-36 h. After 36 h, the cell viability exposed to 250 mg/L Fe2+ decreased to nought, whereas it was 46.5% at 0 mg/L Fe2+. Increased Fe2+ dosage stimulated the death of detached border cells from rice cultivars. After 4 h Fe2+ treatment, the cell viabilities were > or =80% at 0 and 50 mg/L Fe2+ treatment and were <62% at 150, 250 and 350 mg/L Fe2+ treatment; The viability of border cells decreased by 10% when the Fe2+ concentration increased by 100 mg/L. After 24 h Fe2+ treatment, the viabilities of border cells at all the Fe2+ levels were <65%; The viability of border cells decreased by 20% when the Fe2+ concentration increased by 100 mg/L. The decreased viabilities of border cells indicated that Fe2+ dosage and treatment time would cause deadly effect on the border cells. The increased cell death could protect the root tips from toxic harm. Therefore, it may protect root from the damage caused by harmful iron toxicity.
18359142	Crop genetic resources constitute an important aspect of biodiversity conservation, both because of their direct value to the farmers and due to their indirect global value. This study uses the contingent valuation method to document the economic value of crop genetic resources based on the farmers' willingness to pay for conservation. A total of 107 households in Kaski, Nepal were surveyed in November 2003. Their mean willingness to pay was USD 4.18 for in situ and USD 2.20 for ex situ conservation per annum. Landholding size, household size, education level, socio-economic status, sex of respondent, number of crop landraces grown, and knowledge on biodiversity influenced the willingness to pay for in situ conservation, whereas only landholding size and household size influenced the willingness to pay for ex situ conservation. The respondents were willing to contribute more for in situ than ex situ conservation because of the additional effect of direct use and direct involvement of the farmers in in situ conservation. This study supports the view that economic valuation of crop genetic resources can assist the policy makers in setting conservation priorities.
18359841	Color changes often accompany the onset of ripening, leading to brightly colored fruits that serve as attractants to seed-dispersing organisms. In many fruits, including tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and pepper (Capsicum annuum), there is a sharp decrease in chlorophyll content and a concomitant increase in the synthesis of carotenoids as a result of the conversion of chloroplasts into chromoplasts. The green-flesh (gf) and chlorophyll retainer (cl) mutations of tomato and pepper, respectively, are inhibited in their ability to degrade chlorophyll during ripening, leading to the production of ripe fruits characterized by both chlorophyll and carotenoid accumulation and are thus brown in color. Using a positional cloning approach, we have identified a point mutation at the gf locus that causes an amino acid substitution in an invariant residue of a tomato homolog of the STAY-GREEN (SGR) protein of rice (Oryza sativa). Similarly, the cl mutation also carries an amino acid substitution at an invariant residue in a pepper homolog of SGR. Both GF and CL expression are highly induced at the onset of fruit ripening, coincident with the ripening-associated decline in chlorophyll. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that there are two distinct groups of SGR proteins in plants. The SGR subfamily is required for chlorophyll degradation and operates through an unknown mechanism. A second subfamily, which we have termed SGR-like, has an as-yet undefined function.
18361568	NO(2)(+) in six different vibrational states was reacted with C(2)H(2) over the center-of-mass energy range from 0.03 to 3.3 eV. The reaction, forming NO(+)+C(2)H(2)O and NO+C(2)H(2)O(+), shows a bimodal dependence on collision energy (E(col)). At low E(col), the reaction is quite inefficient (<2%) despite this being a barrierless, exoergic reaction, and is strongly inhibited by E(col). For E(col)> approximately 0.5 eV, a second mechanism turns on, with an efficiency reaching approximately 27% for E(col)>3 eV. The two reaction channels have nearly identical dependence on E(col) and NO(2)(+) vibrational state, and identical recoil dynamics, leading to the conclusion that they represent a single reaction path throughout most of the collision. All modes of NO(2)(+) vibrational excitation enhance both channels at all E(col), however, the effects of bend (010) and bend overtone (02(0)0) excitation are particularly strong (factor of 4). In contrast, the asymmetric stretch (001), which intuition suggests should be coupled to the reaction coordinate, leads to only a factor of approximately 2 enhancement, as does the symmetric stretch (100). Perhaps the most surprising effect is that of the bending angular momentum, which strongly suppress reaction, even though both the energy and angular momentum involved are tiny compared to the collision energy and angular momentum. The results are interpreted in light of ab initio and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations.
18362346	The highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 virus that emerged in southern China in the mid-1990s has in recent years evolved into the first HPAI panzootic. In many countries where the virus was detected, the virus was successfully controlled, whereas other countries face periodic reoccurrence despite significant control efforts. A central question is to understand the factors favoring the continuing reoccurrence of the virus. The abundance of domestic ducks, in particular free-grazing ducks feeding in intensive rice cropping areas, has been identified as one such risk factor based on separate studies carried out in Thailand and Vietnam. In addition, recent extensive progress was made in the spatial prediction of rice cropping intensity obtained through satellite imagery processing. This article analyses the statistical association between the recorded HPAI H5N1 virus presence and a set of five key environmental variables comprising elevation, human population, chicken numbers, duck numbers, and rice cropping intensity for three synchronous epidemic waves in Thailand and Vietnam. A consistent pattern emerges suggesting risk to be associated with duck abundance, human population, and rice cropping intensity in contrast to a relatively low association with chicken numbers. A statistical risk model based on the second epidemic wave data in Thailand is found to maintain its predictive power when extrapolated to Vietnam, which supports its application to other countries with similar agro-ecological conditions such as Laos or Cambodia. The model's potential application to mapping HPAI H5N1 disease risk in Indonesia is discussed.
18363032	Nephrotic dyslipidemia is a risk factor for the development of systemic atherosclerosis; it may also aggravate glomerulosclerosis and enhance the progression of glomerular disease. We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of Monascus purpureus Went rice versus fluvastatin therapy in the management of nephrotic dyslipidemia. In total 72 patients with idiopathic persistent NS with secondary dyslipidemia were included. They were randomly allocated into three age- and sex-matched groups. The first group comprised 20 cases that were given M. purpureus Went rice in a dose of 600 mg twice per day for one month and then once daily. The second group comprised 30 cases that were given fluvastatin in a daily dose of 20 mg. The remaining 22 received no antidyslipidemic therapy and constituted a control group. All of these patients were subjected to thorough laboratory investigations, including renal function tests and lipograms. Moreover, neuromuscular status was evaluated with electromyography and nerve conduction velocity. Our results showed that both fluvastatin and M. purpureus Went rice were well-tolerated with no evidence of significant side effects, including on neuromuscular function. Both M. purpureus Went rice and fluvastatin significantly reduced cholesterol after six months and one year, respectively. Monascus purpureus Went rice is a safe, effective and economic treatment strategy for nephrotic dyslipidemia.
18363355	Using a dynamic headspace system with Tenax trap, GC-MS, GC-olfactometry (GC-O), and multivariate analysis, the aroma chemistry of six distinctly different rice flavor types (basmati, jasmine, two Korean japonica cultivars, black rice, and a nonaromatic rice) was analyzed. A total of 36 odorants from cooked samples were characterized by trained assessors. Twenty-five odorants had an intermediate or greater intensity (odor intensity >or= 3) and were considered to be major odor-active compounds. Their odor thresholds in air were determined using GC-O. 2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline (2-AP) had the lowest odor threshold (0.02 ng/L) followed by 11 aldehydes (ranging from 0.09 to 3.1 ng/L), guaiacol (1.5 ng/L), and 1-octen-3-ol (2.7 ng/L). On the basis of odor thresholds and odor activity values (OAVs), the importance of each major odor-active compound was assessed. OAVs for 2-AP, hexanal, (E)-2-nonenal, octanal, heptanal, and nonanal comprised >97% of the relative proportion of OAVs from each rice flavor type, even though the relative proportion varied among samples. Thirteen odor-active compounds [2-AP, hexanal, (E)-2-nonenal, octanal, heptanal, nonanal, 1-octen-3-ol, (E)-2-octenal, (E, E)-2,4-nonadienal, 2-heptanone, (E, E)-2,4-decadienal, decanal, and guaiacol] among the six flavor types were the primary compounds explaining the differences in aroma. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that the individual rice flavor types could be separated and characterized using these compounds, which may be of potential use in rice-breeding programs focusing on flavor.
18364254	The production of activated carbon from bagasse and rice husk by a single-stage chemical activation method in short retention times (30-60min) was examined in this study. The raw materials were subjected to a chemical pretreatment and were fed to the reactor in the form of a paste (75% moisture). Chemicals examined were ZnCl2, NaOH and H3PO4, for temperatures of 600, 700 and 800 degrees C. Of the three chemical reagents under evaluation only ZnCl2 produced activated carbons with high surface areas. BET surface areas for rice husk were up to 750m2/g for 1:1 ZnCl2:rice husk ratio. BET surface areas for bagasse were up to 674m2/g for 0.75:1 ZnCl2:bagasse ratio. Results were compared to regular two-stage physical activation methods.
18364333	This study examined dietary patterns of adults on Guam. Four hundred subjects were selected via a multistage procedure to represent the island's population. A 24-hour dietary recall was administered via telephone in 1995 to 1996. Diets were computer analyzed. There were 4,913 food items reported, representing 1,042 individual foods. Most respondents, 51.3%, had a "more-frequent" eating pattern, 36.9% had "regular" and 11.8% had "less-frequent." Energy consumption increased (p<0.05) with eating frequency. Highest levels of all nutrients (p<0.05) were at the evening meal. The sexes did not differ in nutrient proportions by meal. Grains, meats, and beverages were eaten most frequently. Meat/fish, mixed dishes, and grains supplied 68% of the energy and 47% to 91% of the micronutrients. Twenty five percent of the carbohydrate was from sweetened drinks and desserts. Rice was the most frequently consumed food. More than half of the subjects had no fruit, a third had no vegetables, and only 38.5% had dairy foods. Calcium came from multiple sources: dairy (27.6%), mixed dishes (23.8%), fish (12.6%), desserts (8.5%) and vegetables (6.6%). Most people, 91.8%, had fiesta meals with median consumption at 6 meals per year (range: 0 to 200). Betel nut was used by 12.3% of the sample with median consumption 0 whole nuts per day (range: 0 to 25). Ethnic differences (p<0.01) were observed in both fiesta meal and betel nut consumption. The Guamanian diet includes limited use of traditional foods and dietary patterns associated with increased risk for chronic disease.
18364953	A detailed analysis of the noise properties of wideband optical FM systems is presented. The equations, which are extensions of the results derived by Middleton [Q. Appl. Math. 7, 129 (1949)] and Rice [Bell Syst. Tech. J. 27, 109 (1948)] over 50 years ago, can be used to determine the final noise spectral density for all degrees of limiting, with and without sinusoidal frequency modulation. These results are perfectly general and can be used for any FM system (radio, microwave, or optical) having the particular type of limiter described herein.
18365149	It has been demonstrated that acid urease is capable of decomposing urea in fermented beverage and foods. As urea is a precursor of ethylcarbamate, a potential carcinogenic compound, measures must be taken to control the level of urea. We herein describe the purification and characterization of a novel acid urease from Enterobacter sp. R-SYB082 and its application to the removal of urea in Chinese rice wine. The enzyme was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity using ethanol precipitation, Superdex 200 and Mono Q with a fold purification of 21.1 and a recovery of 49%. The molecular weight of the enzyme was 430,000 Da by gel filtration and 72,000 Da by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, suggesting that it was a hexamer. The activity of this purified enzyme was optimal at pH 4.5 and 35 degrees C. The temperature stability was under 55 degrees C, and the pH stability was 4.0~5.0. The enzyme exhibited an apparent K (m) of 19.5 micromol/l and a V (max) of 109 micromol urea/mg.min at 35 degrees C and pH 4.5. When incubating two different kinds of Chinese rice wine with the enzyme (0.08 U/ml) at 35 degrees C for 7 days, over 85% of urea was decomposed, and at 20 degrees C, above 78% was removed. The result showed that the enzyme is applicable to elimination of urea in Chinese rice wine.
18365248	Trehalose plays a protective role in yeast and microorganisms under abiotic stresses. However, little is known about its role in higher plants when subjected to environmental challenges. A systematic search of rice databases discovered a large TPS/TPP gene family in the rice genome, which is similar to that found in Arabidopsis thaliana, especially in the gene family structure. Expression analysis demonstrated that OsTPP1 was initially and transiently up-regulated after salt, osmotic and abscisic acid (ABA) treatments but slowly up-regulated under cold stress. OsTPP1 overexpression in rice enhanced tolerance to salt and cold stress. Analysis of the overexpression lines revealed that OsTPP1 triggered abiotic stress response genes, which suggests a possible transcriptional regulation pathway in stress induced reprogramming initiated by OsTPP1. The current study revealed the mechanism of an OsTPP gene involved in stress tolerance in rice and also suggested the use of OsTPP1 in abiotic stress engineering of crops.
18366664	Horizontal gene transfer, also called lateral gene transfer, frequently occurs among prokaryotic organisms, and is considered an important force in their evolution. However, there are relatively few reports of transfer to or from fungi, with some notable exceptions in the acquisition of prokaryotic genes. Some fungal species have been found to contain sequences resembling those of bacterial genes, and with such sequences absent in other fungal species, this has been interpreted as horizontal gene transfer. Similarly, a few fungi have been found to contain genes absent in close relatives but present in more distantly related taxa, and horizontal gene transfer has been invoked as a parsimonious explanation. There is a paucity of direct experimental evidence demonstrating the occurrence of horizontal gene transfer in fungi. We found a fungal field isolate from rice (Oryzae sativa) that contains ribosomal DNA sequences from two species of fungal rice pathogens (Thanatephorus cucumeris and Ceratobasidium oryzae-sativae). This field isolate has four types of ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers (ITS), namely pure ITS of C. oryzae-sativae, which was dominant in this field isolate, pure ITS of T. cucumeris, and two chimeric ITS, with ITS1 derived from C. oryzae-sativae and ITS2 from T. cucumeris, or ITS1 from T. cucumeris and ITS2 from C. oryzae-sativae. The presence of chimeric forms indicates that the intergeneric hybrid was not merely composed of nuclei from the parental species, but that nuclear fusion and crossing over had taken place. Hyphae of T. cucumeris and C. oryzae-sativae are vegetatively incompatible, and do not successfully anastomose. However, they parasitize the same host, and perhaps under the influence of host enzymes targeted to weaken pathogen cells or in dying host plant tissue, the fungal hyphae lost their integrity, and normal vegetative incompatibility mechanisms were overcome, allowing the hyphae to fuse. Based on the presence of other similarly anomalous isolates from the field, we speculate that these types of intergeneric hybridization events and occurrences of horizontal gene transfer may not be so rare in the field.
18367234	Mercury (Hg) exposure in the population from Wuchuan mercury mining area (WMMA), Guizhou, China, was evaluated by human hair Hg investigation. Total gaseous mercury (TGM) in the ambient air and Hg in rice were measured to assess human risk of Hg exposure. High TGM concentrations in the ambient air were found near smelting workshop. Rice not only contained high total mercury (T-Hg) which ranged from 6.0-113 ng/g, but also contained highly elevated methylmercury (Me-Hg) which ranged from 3.1-13.4 ng/g. The means of hair T-Hg concentrations were 33.9 microg/g and 21.5 microg/g at YQG and JXC sites, respectively. Residents from other sites also reflected a certain level of Hg exposure. Age had no significant effect on hair Hg levels, but male had higher hair T-Hg concentrations due to occupational exposure and also higher Me-Hg levels which might be related to larger amount of rice consumption. Hair may be a useful tool for monitoring human exposure of Hg vapor in Hg-mining areas. By a preliminary estimation, the inhalation of Hg polluted air was the main route of inorganic Hg exposure to the smelting workers and vicinal residents; but the population in the study area was also at a potential risk of Me-Hg exposure via rice intake.
18367327	The GAC-SBR efficiency was decreased with the increase of dyestuff concentration or the decrease of bio-sludge concentration. The system showed the highest removal efficiency with synthetic textile wastewater (STWW) containing 40 mg/L direct red 23 or direct blue 201 under MLSS of 3,000 mg/L and hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 7.5 days. But, the effluent NO(3)(-) was higher than that of the influent. Direct red 23 was more effective than direct blue 201 to repress the GAC-SBR system efficiency. The dyes removal efficiency of the system with STWW containing direct red 23 was reduced by 30% with the increase of direct red 23 from 40 mg/L to 160 mg/L. The system with raw textile wastewater (TWW) showed quite low BOD(5) TKN and dye removal efficiencies of only 64.7+/-4.9% and 50.2+/-6.9%, respectively. But its' efficiencies could be increased by adding carbon sources (BOD(5)). The dye removal efficiency with TWW was increased by 30% and 20% by adding glucose (TWW+glucose) or Thai rice noodle wastewater (TWW+TRNWW), respectively. SRT of the systems were 28+/-1 days and 31+/-2 days with TWW+glucose and TWW+TRNWW, respectively.
18367716	We recently proposed a specific model whereby miRNAs encoded from short nonautonomous DNA-type TEs known as MITEs evolved from corresponding ancestral full-length (autonomous) elements that originally encoded short interfering (siRNAs). Our miRNA-origins model predicts that evolutionary intermediates may exist as TEs that encode both siRNAs and miRNAs, and we analyzed Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice) genomic sequence and expression data to test this prediction. We found a number of examples of individual plant TE insertions that encode both siRNAs and miRNAs. We show evidence that these dual coding TEs can be expressed as readthrough transcripts from the intronic regions of spliced RNA messages. These TE transcripts can fold to form the hairpin (stem-loop) structures characteristic of miRNA genes along with longer double-stranded RNA regions that typically are processed as siRNAs. Taken together with a recent study showing Drosha independent processing of miRNAs from Drosophila introns, our results indicate that ancestral miRNAs could have evolved from TEs prior to the full elaboration of the miRNA biogenesis pathway. Later, as the specific miRNA biogenesis pathway evolved, and numerous other expressed inverted repeat regions came to be recognized by the miRNA processing endonucleases, the host gene-related regulatory functions of miRNAs emerged. In this way, host genomes were afforded an additional level of regulatory complexity as a by-product of TE defense mechanisms. The siRNA-to-miRNA evolutionary transition is representative of a number of other regulatory mechanisms that evolved to silence TEs and were later co-opted to serve as regulators of host gene expression.
18368246	The work was carried out to test DNA extraction protocols and to characterize populations of Tibraca limbativentris Stl, an important rice insect-pest. Insects were collected in Joinville, Rio do Oeste and Turvo, in Santa Catarina State, and Agudo, Uruguaiana, Pelotas and Palmares do Sul, in Rio Grande do Sul State, and six literature-referenced protocols, besides a new one, were tested. DNA from ten individuals of each population was extracted using the best protocol and RAPD reactions were carried out with ten initiators. The new protocol showed the best results and was used in the PCR reactions, that generated 151 polymorphic bands, allowing to access genetic differences among all the populations; no individuals from one population were clustered with individuals from another. The largest intrapopulacional similarity was found in Uruguaiana (22%), and the smallest in Palmares do Sul (50%), which was also the most divergent population in relation to the others. The Gst was 0.5215, and the Nm was 0.4588; these values reflect the low similarity between the populations. The smallest genic flow was obtained when Palmares do Sul and Pelotas were included in the comparisons, in accordance with the largest divergence of these two populations in relation to the others. There was no significant relation between geographic distance and genetic similarity, which can reflect unknown model of dispersion of T. limbativentris. New studies exploring the species dispersion strategies may help to understand the insect distribution and to unveil the main factors linked to the genetic variability within and between populations.
18368259	Euetheola humilis (Burmeister) is a scarabaeid pest of rice, sugarcane and corn cultures, that attacks the crops during both larval and adult phase. The occurrence of E. humilis was observed in a forest area with Eucalyptus saligna Smith, from Votorantim Celulose & Papel (Fazenda Aroeira), in the Municipality of Candiota, Rio Grande do Sul State. Plants approximately 1m high were damaged by E. humilis adult insects near the stem base, what unraveled its cortex and led some of them to death. The attack was verified in about 10% of the eucalypts plants, in an area of approximately 30 ha.
18368313	A Mesorhizobium huakuii strain 2020, isolated from a rice-growing field in southern China, contains three indigenous plasmids named p2020a, p2020b and p2020c, respectively. The plasmids were deleted via Tn5-sacB insertion, and two cured derivatives were obtained. Interestingly, the mutant 2020D29 curing of p2020c could significantly enhance the capacity of symbiotic nitrogen fixation. But the mutant 2020D8 curing of p2020b lost the ability to nodulate Astragalus sinicus. Furthermore, the third plasmid p2020a could be hardly eliminated, suggesting that some house-keeping genes necessary for strain growth located on this plasmid. Then the Sym plasmid pJB5JI of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae was transferred into 2020 and its cured derivatives. The pot plant test showed that the ability of competition and symbiotic nitrogen fixation of transconjugant 2020-137 (pJB5JI) was increased evidently in contrast to 2020. pJB5JI could not restore the ability of 2020D8 to nodulate Astragalus sinicus. 2020D8-8 (pJB5JI) could form ineffective nodules on peas, which implied that the symbiotic plasmid pJB5JI could express its function at the chromosomal background of Mesorhizobium huakuii 2020. The plasmid stability was checked in transconjugants under free-living and during symbiosis. The results indicated that pJB5JI failed to be detected in some nodule isolates. That Km resistance gene could be amplified from all transconjugants and nodule isolates suggested that pJB5JI was fully or partially integrated into the chromosome of recipients.
18368715	Malaria-controlling measures and the population's chemoprevention in the intensive foci caused a drastic morbidity reduction in the republic, by showing a 1.5-fold decrease in the number of malaria cases in 2005 as compared with the previous year (2309 versus 3577). Malaria patients are notified in the republic throughout the year, but infection transmission occurs in June to October. Eleven species ofAnopheles mosquitoes have been currently known in Tadjikistan; only three of them (An. superpictus, An. pulcherrimus, and An. maculipennis) are effective vectors. Malaria mostly affects the Khatlon Region (a total of 2039 cases, including 76 cases of tropic malaria) that is a valley-desert landscape in the south of Tadjikistan. In the 2006 spring, mass preventive treatment with primaquine was performed in 10 districts of the Khatlon Region, covering 98694 persons. In August 2006, the houses were treated with the insecticides Alfacipermetrine and Triton in 34 towns and districts of the republic; 25145 permetrine-impregnated bed curtains were distributed in 7 districts to protect the population from mosquito bites. In 8 districts, topminnows (Gambusia) were let into the Anopheles mosquito-rich water reservoirs and rice-growing fields with a total area of 680 ha.
1837147	Many fungal pathogens penetrate plant leaves from a specialized cell called an appressorium. The rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea can also penetrate synthetic surfaces such as poly(vinyl chloride). Previous experiments have suggested that penetration requires an elevated appressorial turgor pressure. In the present report we have used nonbiodegradable Mylar membranes, exhibiting a range of surface hardness, to test the proposition that penetration is driven by turgor. Reducing appressorial turgor by osmotic stress inhibited penetration of these membranes. The size of the turgor deficit required to inhibit penetration was a function of the surface hardness. Penetration of the hardest membranes was inhibited by small decreases in appressorial turgor, while penetration of the softer membranes was sensitive only to large decreases in turgor. Similarly, penetration of the host surface was inhibited in a manner comparable to penetration of the hardest Mylar membranes. Indirect measurements of turgor, obtained through osmotically induced collapse of appressoria, indicated that the infection apparatus can generate turgor pressures in excess of 8.0 MPa (80 bars). We conclude that penetration of synthetic membranes, and host epidermal cells, is accomplished by application of the physical force derived from appressorial turgor.
18371765	A new method of dispersive liquid phase microextraction (DLPME) combined with graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS) was proposed for the determination of trace Co and Ni using 1-(2-pyridylazo) 2-naphthol (PAN) as chelating reagent. Several factors influencing the microextraction efficiency of Co and Ni and their subsequent determinations, such as pH, extraction and disperser solvent type and their volume, concentration of the chelating agent, extraction time and ashing temperature and atomization temperature were studied, and the optimized experimental conditions were established. After extraction, the enrichment factors were 101 and 200 for Co and Ni, respectively. The detection limits of the method were 21 and 33pg/mL for Co and Ni, and the relative standard deviations (R.S.Ds.) for five determinations of 0.5ng/mL Co and Ni were 7.5% and 8.2%, respectively. The results for the determination of Co and Ni in East Lake water, Yangtse River water, Dongbei rice and spiked samples have demonstrated the accuracy, recovery and applicability of the proposed method. To validate the proposed method, two certified reference materials of Environment Water (GSBZ50009-88) and NIES No.10-b rice flour were analyzed, and the determined values were in good agreement with the certified values.
18371897	This work describes the optimization of a fully automated method based on on-line solid-phase extraction-liquid chromatography-electrospray-tandem mass spectrometry (SPE-LC-ESI-MS/MS) for the simultaneous determination of 17 medium to polar pesticides in water. The list of target analytes included organophosphates, triazines, phenylureas, anilides, chloroacetanilides, acidic herbicides and thiocarbamates. Detection limits achieved were below 5 ng/L for all compounds except metolachlor (12 ng/L), alachlor (17 ng/L), malathion (36 ng/L) and fenitrothion (50 ng/L). The method developed was used to investigate the occurrence of the target pesticides in a total of 52 water samples collected monthly (from May to August 2005) at 14 selected locations in the rice cultivation area of the Ebro river delta. The study showed high levels, in the microg/L range, of bentazone, MCPA, propanil, molinate and atrazine, in basically all the samples investigated. The remaining pesticides were present at lower levels (<0.1 microg/L) or only detected sporadically (e.g. fenitrothion and malathion). The sampling campaign performed in July showed comparatively higher levels than the other three campaigns.
18372294	The main physiological roles of phloem and xylem in higher plants involve the transport of water, nutrients and metabolites. They are also involved, however, in whole plant events including stress responses and long-distance signaling. Phloem and xylem saps therefore include a variety of proteins. In this study, we have performed a shotgun analysis of the proteome of phloem and xylem saps from rice, taking advantage of the complete and available genomic information for this plant. Xylem sap was prepared using the root pressure method, whereas phloem sap was prepared with a unique method with the assistance of planthoppers to ensure the robustness of the detected proteins. The technical difficulties caused by the very limited availability of rice samples were overcome by the use of nano-flow liquid chromatography linked to a mass spectrometer. We identified 118 different proteins and eight different peptides in xylem sap, and 107 different proteins and five different peptides in phloem sap. Signal transduction proteins, putative transcription factors and stress response factors as well as metabolic enzymes were identified in these saps. Interestingly, we found the presence of three TERMINAL FLOWER 1/FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT)-like proteins in phloem sap. The detected FT-like proteins were not rice Hd3a (OsFTL2) itself that acted as a non-cell-autonomous signal for flowering control, but they were members of distinct subfamilies of the FT family with differential expression patterns. These results imply that proteomics on a nano scale is a potent tool for investigation of biological processes in plants.
18373874	Statin can induce the gene expression of bone morphogenetic protein-2. Red yeast rice (RYR, Hongqu), i.e. rice fermented with Monascus purpureus, contains a natural form of statin. This study demonstrates the effects of RYR extract on bone formation. Bone defects were created in the parietal bones of two New Zealand white rabbits. In the test animal, two defects were grafted with collagen matrix mixed with RYR extract. In the control animal, two defects were grafted with collagen matrix alone. UMR 106 cell line was used to test RYR extract in vitro. In the control group, cells were cultured for three durations (24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours) without any intervention. In the RYR group, cells were cultured for the same durations with various concentrations of RYR extract (0.001 g/ml, 0.005 g/ml and 0.01 g/ml). Bicinchoninic acid (BCA) assay, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) assay were performed to measure total protein, mitochondrial activity and bone cell formation respectively. The test animal showed more formation of new bone in the defects than the control animal. RYR significantly increased the optical density in the MTT assay and ALP activity in vitro. RYR extract stimulated new bone formation in bone defects in vivo and increased bone cell formation in vitro.
18373976	Linoleic acid (18:2) and linolenic acid (18:3) are sources for various oxidized metabolites called oxylipins, some of which inhibit growth of fungal pathogens. In a previous study, we found disease resistance to rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea enhanced in 18:2-accumulating transgenic rice (F78Ri) in which the conversion from 18:2 to 18:3 was suppressed. Here, we demonstrate that 18:2-derived hydroperoxides and hydroxides (HPODEs and HODEs, respectively) inhibit growth of M. grisea more strongly than their 18:3-derived counterparts. Furthermore, in F78Ri plants, the endogenous levels of HPODEs and HODEs increased significantly, compared with wild-type plants. These results suggest that the increased accumulation of antifungal oxylipins, such as HPODEs and HODEs, causes the enhancement of disease resistance against M. grisea.
18374588	We investigated the time-related changes of Chromosome Regions that Affect Traits (CRATs) for elongation rate in rice (Oryza sativa L.) using chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) carrying a single chromosome segment of the cultivar Kasalath (indica) in a Koshihikari (japonica) genetic background. The growth period of rice was partitioned into eight stages (each lasting 5-7days) from 18days after transplanting, and the elongation rate was determined as the increase of total plant height per time at each growth stage. CRATs for plant elongation rate were determined based on graphical genotype data of CSSLs that showed a significantly higher or lower elongation rate than Koshihikari. In total, 23 CRATs for plant elongation rate were detected, and different CRATs acted at different growth stages. Fifteen CRATs increased the elongation rate through Kasalath alleles, and eight increased it through Koshihikari alleles. These results suggest that plant height in rice is regulated in a stage-specific manner by a variety of genetic mechanisms that control plant elongation rate. Kasalath alleles of PE1-9 increased the elongation rate at an early growth stage (18-25days after transplanting), while Koshihikari alleles of PE8-3 decreased the elongation rate at a late growth stage (68-74days after transplanting). In a line that contained both of these CRATs, the elongation rate at the early growth stage was increased without affecting plant height at harvesting. We conclude that stage-specific optimization of plant height in rice may be achieved by combining CRATs that control plant elongation at specific stages.
18375017	The aim of this study was to assess the reliability and external validity of the Previous Day Food Questionnaire (PDFQ) designed to obtain a report of the foods eaten on the previous day by schoolchildren. Participants were 7-10-year-old school children of the first four grades of a public school in Southern Brazil (N=227). Test-retest reliability was evaluated by kappa coefficient for two administrations of the PDFQ on the same day to the same children. External validity of the PDFQ was evaluated via sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values (PPV and NPV, respectively) using trained observers of the food eaten on the previous day as gold standard. The association between responses from observed food intake with those from reported food intake on PDFQ was evaluated by multivariate logistic regression, controlled for school grade, gender, time of the eating, and the variation between first and second PDFQ applications. For the reliability study, the analyses stratified by school eating occasions (3 a day) indicated that agreement level was moderate or better for all food categories. PDFQ's sensitivity ranged from 57.1% (vegetables) to 93.3% (rice), whereas its specificity ranged from 77.8% (bread/pasta) to 98% (meats). Both, PPV and NPV were reasonably high. PDFQ was highly associated with observed food intake, with effect magnitude several times larger than any other factor analyzed for all foods. PDFQ also showed good test-retest reliability, suggesting that it may generate reliable and valid data for assessing food intake at the group (school) level.
18378529	Two homologs of PISTILLATA have been identified in rice: OsMADS2 and OsMADS4. However, their roles in floral organ development are controversial. Here, we demonstrate that the genes show unequal redundancy of class B function. Although OsMADS2 plays an important role in lodicule development, OsMADS4 also supports the specification of lodicule identity. In contrast, the genes are roughly equally important in stamen development. Consistent with their redundant functions, both OsMADS2 and OsMADS4 interact with the unique rice AP3 ortholog SPW1.
18379829	This study investigated the flux-variance relationships of temperature, humidity, and CO(2), and examined the performance of using this method for predicting sensible heat (H), water vapor (LE), and CO(2) fluxes (F(CO2)) with eddy-covariance measured flux data at three different ecosystems: grassland, paddy rice field, and forest. The H and LE estimations were found to be in good agreement with the measurements over the three fields. The prediction accuracy of LE could be improved by around 15% if the predictions were obtained by the flux-variance method in conjunction with measured sensible heat fluxes. Moreover, the paddy rice field was found to be a special case where water vapor follows flux-variance relation better than heat does. However, the CO(2) flux predictions were found to vary from poor to fair among the three sites. This is attributed to the complicated CO(2) sources and sinks distribution. Our results also showed that heat and water vapor were transported with the same efficiency above the grassland and rice paddy. For the forest, heat was transported 20% more efficiently than evapotranspiration.
18379880	Endophytic colonization in rice was induced using rhizobia. Dehusked seeds of rice hybrid, CORH2, were used as explants for induction of calli. MS medium was modified with 2,4-D (2.5 mg l(-1)) and kinetin (0.2 mg l(-1)) for callus induction. Well-developed calli were inoculated with Azorhizobium caulinodans strains ORS 571 and AA-SK-5 by means of imbibition. All treated calli had significant increases in protein content, total nitrogen and nitrogenase activity. Imbibition of ORS 571 had significant biochemical effect on the developing calli than AA-SK-5. The crop response study from the regenerated plantlets showed a positive correlation in yield than uninoculated control. The endophytic colonization was observed in all parts of the plants analyzed. Further, colonization was also confirmed by microtome sectioning.
18381212	We previously demonstrated that Fibroblast Growth Factor 10 (FGF10) and its receptor FGFR2b play a key role in controlling the very early stages of mammary gland development during embryogenesis [Mailleux, A.A., Spencer-Dene, B., Dillon, C., Ndiaye, D., Savona-Baron, C., Itoh, N., Kato, S., Dickson, C., Thiery, J.P., and Bellusci, S. (2002). Role of FGF10/FGFR2b signaling during mammary gland development in the mouse embryo. Development 129, 53-60. Veltmaat, J. M., Relaix, F., Le, L.T., Kratochwil, K., Sala, F.G., van Veelen, W., Rice, R., Spencer-Dene, B., Mailleux, A.A., Rice, D.P., Thiery, J.P., and Bellusci, S. (2006). Gli3-mediated somitic Fgf10 expression gradients are required for the induction and patterning of mammary epithelium along the embryonic axes. Development 133, 2325-35.]. However, the role of FGFR2b signaling in postnatal mammary gland development is still elusive. We show that FGF10 is expressed at high level throughout the adipose tissue in the mammary gland of young virgin female mice whereas its main receptor FGFR2 is found mostly in the epithelium. Using a rtTA transactivator/tetracycline promoter approach allowing inducible and reversible attenuation of the FGFR2b signaling throughout the adult mouse, we are now reporting that FGFR2b signaling is also critical during postnatal mammary gland development. Ubiquitous attenuation of FGFR2b signaling in the postnatal mouse for 6 weeks starting immediately after birth is not lethal and leads to minor defects in the animal. Upon dissection of the mammary glands, a 40% reduction in size compared to the WT control is observed. Further examination shows a rudimentary mammary epithelial tree with completely absent terminal end buds (TEBs), compared to a well-branched structure observed in wild type. Transplantation of mammary gland explants into cleared fat pad of wild type mouse recipients indicates that the observed abnormal branching results from defective FGFR2b signaling in the epithelium. We also demonstrate that this rudimentary tree reforms TEBs and resumes branching upon removal of doxycycline suggesting that the regenerative capacities of the mammary epithelial progenitor cells were still functional despite long-term inactivation of the FGFR2b pathway. At the cellular level, upon FGFR2b attenuation, we show an increase in apoptosis associated with a decrease in the proliferation of the mammary luminal epithelium. We conclude that during puberty, there is a differential requirement for FGFR2b signaling in ductal vs. TEBs epithelium. FGFR2b signaling is crucial for the survival and proliferation of the mammary luminal epithelial cells, but does not affect the regenerative potential of the mammary epithelial progenitor cells.
1838139	After 6 weeks incubation on rice 2 strains of Fusarium crookwellense produced more zearalenone (6060-5010 mg/kg dry wt of culture) at ambient temperature (16-29 degrees C) in daylight than at ambient temperature (18-23 degrees C) in darkness or at controlled temperatures of 11 degrees C, 20 degrees C or 25 degrees C in darkness. Yields at 25 degrees C were low. Incubation at 11 degrees C during the second 3 weeks incubation increased yields only when preliminary incubation had been at 25 degrees C. After 6 weeks incubation at controlled temperatures in darkness, 4 strains produced most zearalenone at 20 degrees C (2460-21 360 mg/kg), 1 strain at 11 degrees C (6570 mg/kg). Yields at a temperature oscillating daily from 10-20 degrees C were less than at 15 degrees C. One of the 5 strains produced appreciable amounts of a-zearlaenol (1645 mg/kg at 20 degrees C) and 2 of nivalenol (340 and 499 mg/kg at 20 degrees C).
18381698	Comprehensive 2-D LC is an emerging separation technique that has seen a rapid increase in applications in the last decade. The technique has been applied for the separation of numerous complex mixtures including triacylglycerides (TAG). Determination of TAG in food products such as rice, palm, and canola oils have been previously described and the technique of choice utilizes a silver-modified silica column with hexane-ACN as the mobile phase. Repeated retention time inconsistencies were experienced in our studies when this mobile phase was applied to the separation of natural and synthetic mixtures containing TAG. The present report summarizes a study performed to determine the relative stability of ACN, propionitrile (PCN), and butyronitrile (BCN) at concentrations ranging from 0.43 to 2.8% in hexane and heptane. The data obtained suggest that unless evaporative loss of the mobile phase is prevented, TAG retention time irreproducibility can be significant when using mobile-phase mixtures prepared with ACN or PCN. BCN should be used as the solvent modifier in cases where evaporation cannot be prevented.
18384166	Neonatal stroke is associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated excitotoxic brain injury. Src family kinases (SFKs) are considered to be the molecular hub for NMDAR regulation. We determined the relationship between SFKs activation and NMDAR tyrosine phosphorylation after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) and investigated the neuroprotective potential of a selective SFKs inhibitor, PP2 (4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl) pyrazolo [3, 4-d] pyramidine), against neonatal brain ischemic injury. The Rice-Vannucci model was adapted for neonatal HI injury in postnatal day 7 CD1 mice. SFKs activity in the postsynaptic densities was measured by Western blot. NMDAR tyrosine phosphorylation and their association with SFKs were determined by coimmunoprecipitation. Brains from animals treated with PP2 or its inactive analog, PP3, were examined histologically with cresyl violet and iron stain to assess the degree of damage. Neonatal HI resulted in a rapid and transient increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDAR subunits NR2A and NR2B. This upregulation correlated with the enhanced association of Fyn and Src with NR2A and NR2B. SFKs were activated in the postsynaptic densities after HI. Inhibition of SFKs with PP2 attenuated brain injury after neonatal HI, whereas PP3 did not protect the brain from the HI insult. SFKs may play an important role in NMDAR-mediated excitotoxicity and downstream events leading to neuronal death after neonatal HI. Inhibition of SFKs may provide protection against neonatal stroke. Rather than blockade of NMDAR after HI in the developing brain, it may be safer and more beneficial to manipulate components of the NMDAR signaling complex at the postsynaptic density.
18385771	Methanotrophs in the rhizosphere play an important role in global climate change since they attenuate methane emission from rice field ecosystems into the atmosphere. Most of the CH(4) is emitted via transport through the plant gas vascular system. We used this transport for stable isotope probing (SIP) of the methanotrophs in the rhizosphere under field conditions and pulse-labelled rice plants in a Chinese rice field with CH(4) (99% (13)C) for 7 days. The rate of (13)CH(4) loss rate during (13)C application was comparable to the CH(4) oxidation rate measured by the difluoromethane inhibition technique. The methanotrophic communities on the roots and in the rhizospheric soil were analyzed by terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP), cloning and sequencing of the particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA) gene. Populations of type I methanotrophs were larger than those of type II. Both methane oxidation rates and composition of methanotrophic communities suggested that there was little difference between urea-fertilized and unfertilized fields. SIP of phospholipid fatty acids (PLFA-SIP) and rRNA (RNA-SIP) were used to analyze the metabolically active methanotrophic community in rhizospheric soil. PLFA of type I compared with type II methanotrophs was labelled more strongly with (13)C, reaching a maximum of 6.8 atom-%. T-RFLP analysis and cloning/sequencing of 16S rRNA genes showed that methanotrophs, especially of type I, were slightly enriched in the 'heavy' fractions. Our results indicate that CH(4) oxidation in the rice rhizosphere under in situ conditions is mainly due to type I methanotrophs.
18385862	Under EU legislation, total arsenic levels in drinking water should not exceed 10 microg l(-1), while in the US this figure is set at 10 microg l(-1) inorganic arsenic. All rice milk samples analysed in a supermarket survey (n = 19) would fail the EU limit with up to 3 times this concentration recorded, while out of the subset that had arsenic species determined (n = 15), 80% had inorganic arsenic levels above 10 microg l(-1), with the remaining 3 samples approaching this value. It is a point for discussion whether rice milk is seen as a water substitute or as a food, there are no EU or US food standards highlighting the disparity between water and food regulations in this respect.
18387100	To evaluate a practical method of determining more accurately conversion factors for calculating the protein contents of foods from the total nitrogen content, 19 cereal products found in Japan were analyzed for total nitrogen, amino acid nitrogen, and amide nitrogen, and then the nitrogen-to-protein conversion factors were calculated. The average conversion factors were 5.75 for rice, 5.81 for wheat, and 5.95 for others. These values, corresponding to the proportion of the amino acid residue to amino acid nitrogen recovered from 20 amino acids, were lower than the currently applied factors to these foods, except for wheat flour and amaranth. The use of this factor for estimating the protein content results in a considerable difference from the estimate based on amino acid residue concentrations, due to the wide variations in amino acid composition and to the presence of a significant level of nonprotein nitrogen. The distribution of the protein nitrogen recovered from the amino acids to total nitrogen averaged 93%. Adjusted conversion factors corresponding to the proportion of the amino acid residue to total nitrogen averaged 5.26 for rice, 5.47 for wheat, and 5.54 for other cereal products. Protein contents estimated using these factors are in good agreement with the contents defined as amino acid residues.
18387299	Biobleaching of three non wood kraft pulps (bagasse, rice straw and wheat straw) by Thermomyces lanuginosus SSBP xylanase and commercial xylanase (cartazyme sandoz), was studied in order to investigate their potential and effect on their various properties (reduction sugars, chlorine dioxide, kappa number, brightness and chromophores). In generally, xylanases released chromophores and reducing sugars and decreased kappa number of pulps. These samples gained over six brightness points over controls. Biobleaching of rice straw pulp with xylanase cartazyme (Sandoz) produced chlorine dioxide savings of up to 25% or 3.5-4 kg chlorine dioxide/ton pulp.
18388412	Inhibitors of carbohydrate-hydrolyzing enzyme play an important role to control postprandial blood glucose levels. In this paper, we investigated the effect of an ethanol extract from chestnut astringent skin (CAS) on alpha-amylase. Chestnut astringent skin extract strongly inhibited human and porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase. We also investigated the effect of CAS extract on carbohydrate absorption in rats and humans. Oral administration of CAS extract to normal rats fed corn starch (2 g/kg body weight), significantly suppressed the increase of blood glucose levels after starch loading in a dose-dependent manner. The effective dose of CAS extract required to achieve 20 and 40% suppression of the rise in blood glucose level was estimated to be 40 and 155 mg/kg body weight, respectively. Chestnut astringent skin extract also suppressed the rise in plasma insulin level and the fall in plasma non-esterified fatty acid level. In the type 2 diabetic rat model, CAS extract significantly suppressed the rise in blood glucose level after starch loading in a dose-dependent manner. Chestnut astringent skin extract also suppressed the rise in plasma glucose level after boiled rice loading in a dose-dependent manner in humans. The amount of CAS extract required to achieve 11 and 23% suppression in the rise in plasma glucose level was 300 and 600 mg/person, respectively. These results suggest that CAS extract retards absorption of carbohydrate and reduces post-prandial hyperglycemia.
18389148	We investigated the UVB-sensitivity in 12 rice strains belonging to two cultivated species (O. sativa and O. glaberrima) and three wild species (O. barthii, O. meridionalis and O. rufipogon) of rice possessing the AA genome, while focusing on the CPD photolyase activity and the genotypes of CPD photolyase. Although the UVB sensitivity, CPD photolyase activity, and CPD photolyase genotype varied widely among these rice species, the sensitivity to UVB radiation depended on the activity of the CPD photolyase, regardless of grass shape, habitat, or species. The rice strains examined here clearly divided into three groups based on the CPD photolyase activity, and the activity of the strains greatly depended on amino acid residues at positions 126 and 296, with the exception of the W1299 strain (O. meridionalis). The amino acid residues 126 and 296 of CPD photolyase in Sasanishiki strain (O. sativa), which showed higher enzymatic activity and more resistance to UVB, were glutamine (Gln) and Gln, respectively. An amino acid change at position 126 from Gln to arginine ("Nori"-type) in the photolyase led to a reduction of enzymatic activity. Additionally, an amino acid change at position 296 from Gln to histidine led to a further reduction in activity. The activity of the W1299 strain, which possesses a "Nori"-type CPD photolyase, was the highest among the strains examined here, and was similar to that of the Sasanishiki. The CPD photolyase of the W1299 contains ten amino acid substitutions, compared to Sasanishiki. The alterations in amino acid residues in the W1299 CPD photolyase compensated for the reduction in activity caused by the amino acid substitutions at positions 126. Knowledge of the activity of different CPD photolyase genotypes will be useful in developing improved rice cultivars.
18389285	The present paper reports the presence of bacteria and yeasts tightly associated with spores of an isolate of Glomus mosseae. Healthy spores were surface disinfected by combining chloramine-T 5%, Tween-40, and cephalexin 2.5 g L(-1) (CTCf). Macerates of these spores were incubated on agar media, microorganisms were isolated, and two yeasts were characterized (EndoGm1, EndoGm11). Both yeasts were able to solubilize low-soluble P sources (Ca and Fe phosphates) and accumulate polyphosphates (polyPs). Sequence analysis of 18S ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid showed that the yeasts belong to the genera Rhodotorula or Rhodosporidium (EndoGm1) and Cryptococcus (EndoGm11). Results from inoculation experiments showed an effect of the spore-associated yeasts on the root growth of rice, suggesting potential tripartite interactions with mycorrhizal fungi and plants.
18389687	Demand for aseptically steamed rice products has been increasing rapidly in Japan over the past 10 years. In our previous study, we showed that proteolytic Clostridium botulinum produce toxins in steamed rice products packaged under a modified atmosphere of < or =0.3% oxygen. In the present study, we examined the effect of pH to control botulism risk in steamed rice products packaged under modified atmosphere (5% CO2 and 95% N2 as the balance) with the inclusion of a deoxidant pack to produce an oxygen concentration of < or =0.3%. A mixture of 10 strains of proteolytic C. botulinum (5 type A strains and 5 type B strains) was inoculated into steamed rice products at pH values between 4.6 and 6.8 prior to packaging. All samples were stored at 30 degrees C for 24 weeks. Samples at higher pH showed earlier starts of neurotoxin production. Neurotoxin was detected after 2 weeks of incubation in samples at pH 5.4 or above, whereas it took 4 weeks for the toxin to be detected in samples at pH 5.2 to 5.3 and 12 weeks in samples at pH 5.0 to 5.1. In samples at pH 4.9 or below, no toxin was detected during the experimental period. Apparent sample spoilage did not occur before C. botulinum produced neurotoxin in most of the samples. Based on these results, we conclude that aseptically steamed rice products must be packaged at pH 4.9 or below under modified atmosphere containing < or =0.3% oxygen, with the inclusion of a deoxidant pack.
18389978	The present study examined the amount and relative contribution of calcium from the habitual diet among rural Thais. Calcium intake was assessed using 3-day food records and interviewer-administered quantitative food-frequency questionnaire, containing 73 food items. The authors recruited 436 healthy participants (181 men and 255 women), between 20 and 85 years of age. Averaged daily calcium intake among men and women were 378.6 and 265.6 mg, respectively. Sixty-seven percent of men and eighty seven percent of women had less dietary calcium intake than half of the recommended level (< 400 mg/day) whereas only 6 and 3% had an intake more than 800 mg/day. The major food sources of dietary calcium was glutinous rice (32 percent) followed by small animals with edible bones (31 percent) and fresh and fermented fish (20 percent). Dairy products and vegetables constituted only 8 and 5% of dietary calcium, respectively. The habitual diet among rural Northeast Thais does not meet the recommended calcium intake level. To promote more consumption of dairy products and locally-available calcium-rich foods would be beneficial to prevent osteoporosis among this population.
18391244	Members of the genus Xanthomonas are significant phytopathogens, which cause diseases in several economically important crops including rice, canola, tomato, citrus, etc. We have analyzed the genomes of six recently sequenced Xanthomonas strains for their synonymous codon usage patterns for all of protein coding genes and specific genes associated with pathogenesis, and determined the predicted highly expressed (PHX) genes by the use of the codon adaptation index (CAI). Our results show considerable heterogeneity among the genes of these moderately G+C rich genomes. Most of the genes were moderate to highly biased in their codon usage. However, unlike ribosomal protein genes, which were governed by translational selection, those genes associated with pathogenesis (GAP) were affected by mutational pressure and were predicted to have moderate to low expression levels. Only two out of 339 GAP genes were in the PHX category. PHX genes present in clusters of orthologous groups of proteins (COGs) were identified. Genes in the plasmids present in two strains showed moderate to low expression level and only a couple of genes featured in the PHX list. Common genes present in the top-20 PHX gene-list were identified and their possible functions are discussed. Correspondence analysis showed that genes are highly confined to a core in the plot.
18392854	Subtelomeres contain species-specific repetitive sequences. We characterized rice chromosome ends on the basis of the structure of TrsA, a subtelomeric repetitive sequence of rice. Among the 24 chromosome arms, TrsA was arrayed in tandem on the ends of five: 5L, 6S, 8L, 9L, and 12L. TrsA sequences were arranged in discrete clusters of 3-106 copies in a chromosome-specific manner, instead of being distributed uniformly throughout the subtelomeric regions. The clusters were located at the distal-most end of the sequenced region in 5L, 6S, 8L, and 9L, but in 12L expressed genes were present distal to the clusters. Thus, rice subtelomeres are composed of discrete clusters of a TrsA-rich region and a gene-rich region with high transcriptional activity. Intra-chromosomal duplications have resulted in a striking degree of variation in the number and distribution of TrsAs, suggesting that the areas near the ends of the chromosomes are dynamic and variable.
18392895	The allelopathy-competition separation (ACS) based approach was used to explore the biointerference relationship between rice accessions and barnyardgrass exposed to different nitrogen (N) supplies in hydroponics. Rice accession PI312777 exhibited high allelopathic potential to suppress the growth of accompanying weeds, especially when the culture solution had low N content. The non-allelopathic rice Lemont showed an opposite result. Additionally, subtractive hybridization suppression (SSH) was used to construct a forward SSH-cDNA library of PI312777 to investigate gene expression profiles under low N treatment. A total of 35 positive clones from the SSH-cDNA library were sequenced and annotated. According to the function category, 24 genes were classified into five groups related to primary metabolism, phenolic allelochemical synthesis, plant growth/cell cycle regulation, stress response/signal transduction, and protein synthesis/degradation. Among them, two up-regulated genes that encode PAL and cytochrome P450 were selected. Their transcript abundance at low N level was compared further between the allelopathic rice and its counterpart by utilizing real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The transcription levels of the two genes increased in both rice accessions when exposed to low N supply, but PI312777 at a higher magnitude than Lemont. At 1, 3, and 7 days of the treatments, the corresponding relative expression levels of PAL were 11.38, 4.83, and 3.57 fold higher in PI312777 root, but there were 1.15, 2.74, and 2.94 fold increases for Lemont, compared with the control plants fed with regular nutrient. The same trend was found for cytochrome P450. These findings suggest that the stronger ability of PI312777 to suppress target weeds, especially in low N nutrient conditions, might be attributed to the stronger activation of the genes that function in de novo synthesis of allelochemicals.
18393222	The reduced genetic variability of modern rice varieties (Oryza sativa) is of concern because it reduces the possibilities of genetic gain in breeding programs. Introgression lines (ILs) containing genomic fragments from wild rice can be used to obtain new improved cultivars. The objective of the present study was to perform the agronomic and molecular characterizations of 35 BC2F8 ILs from the cross O. glumaepatula x O. sativa, aiming to select high-yielding ILs to be used in rice-breeding programs. All 35 ILs were field evaluated in the season 2002/2003 in three locations and the 15 best performing ones were evaluated in the season 2003/2004 in five locations. In 2003/2004, six ILs (CNAi 9934, CNAi 9931, CNAi 9930, CNAi 9935, CNAi 9936, and CNAi 9937) showed the highest yield means and were statistically superior to the controls Metica 1 and IRGA 417. Molecular characterization of the 35 ILs was performed with 92 microsatellite markers distributed on the 12 rice chromosomes and a simple regression quantitative trait locus analysis was performed using the phenotypic data from 2002/2003. The six high-yielding ILs showed a low proportion of wild fragment introgressions. A total of 14 molecular markers were associated with quantitative trait loci in the three locations. The six high-yielding ILs were incorporated in the Embrapa breeding program, and the line CNAi 9930 is recommended for cultivation due to additional advantages of good grain cooking and milling qualities and high yield stability. The O. glumaepatula-derived ILs proved to be a source of new alleles for the development of high-yielding rice cultivars.
18393625	The avirulence (AVR) gene AVR-Pita in Magnaporthe oryzae prevents the fungus from infecting rice cultivars containing the resistance gene Pi-ta. A survey of isolates of the M. grisea species complex from diverse hosts showed that AVR-Pita is a member of a gene family, which led us to rename it to AVR-Pita1. Avirulence function, distribution, and genomic context of two other members, named AVR-Pita2 and AVR-Pita3, were characterized. AVR-Pita2, but not AVR-Pita3, was functional as an AVR gene corresponding to Pi-ta. The AVR-Pita1 and AVR-Pita2 genes were present in isolates of both M. oryzae and M. grisea, whereas the AVR-Pita3 gene was present only in isolates of M. oryzae. Orthologues of members of the AVR-Pita family could not be found in any fungal species sequenced to date, suggesting that the gene family may be unique to the M. grisea species complex. The genomic context of its members was analyzed in eight strains. The AVR-Pita1 and AVR-Pita2 genes in some isolates appeared to be located near telomeres and flanked by diverse repetitive DNA elements, suggesting that frequent deletion or amplification of these genes within the M. grisea species complex might have resulted from recombination mediated by repetitive DNA elements.
18395997	Calcium plays a crucial role as a second messenger in mediating various defense responses under environmental stresses. Calcineurin B-like (CBL) proteins have been implicated as important Ca2+ sensors in plant-specific calcium signaling. Based on the similarity of sequence, ten CBL genes were identified by searching the rice japonica genome database, which were randomly distribute on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 and 12. By semi-quantitative RT-PCR approach the expression pattern of each gene was detected in various organs at the adult stage and seedlings treated with NaCl, PEG and cold stresses or exogenous ABA. The results showed that the induction of each rice CBL gene was not only responsive to different stress conditions, but also organ specific. In vivo targeting experiment revealed that OsCBL8 localized to the plasma membrane, which was consistent with OsCBL4 and SOS3 previously reported. To elucidate the putative function of OsCBL8 gene, transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsCBL8 gene were generated by the Agrobacterium-mediated approach. The OsCBL8 transgenic rice seedlings showed more tolerance to salt stress than non-transgenic seedlings.
18396549	Soil quality, as a measure of the soil's capacity to function, can be assessed by indicators based on physical, chemical, and biological properties. Here we report on the assessment of soil quality in 21 rice (Oryza sativa) fields under three rice production systems (semi-direct, pre-germinated, and conventional) on four soil textural classes in the Camaqu region of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The objectives of our study were: (i) to identify soil quality indicators that discriminate both management systems and soil textural classes, (ii) to establish a minimum data set of soil quality indicators and (iii) to test whether this minimum data set is correlated with yield. Twenty-nine soil biological, chemical, and physical properties were evaluated to characterize regional soil quality. Soil quality assessment was based on factor and discriminant analysis. Bulk density, available water, and micronutrients (Cu, Zn, and Mn) were the most powerful soil properties in distinguishing among different soil textural classes. Organic matter, earthworms, micronutrients (Cu and Mn), and mean weight diameter were the most powerful soil properties in assessing differences in soil quality among the rice management systems. Manganese was the property most strongly correlated with yield (adjusted r2 = 0.365, P = 0.001). The merits of sub-dividing samples according to texture and the linkage between soil quality indicators, soil functioning, plant performance, and soil management options are discussed in particular.
18396555	Mercury (Hg) has received considerable attention because of its association with various human health problems. Adsorption-desorption behavior of Hg at contaminated levels in two paddy soils was investigated. The two representative soils for rice production in China, locally referred to as a yellowish red soil (YRS) and silty loam soil (SLS) and classified as Gleyi-Stagnic Anthrosols in FAO/UNESCO nomenclature, were respectively collected from Jiaxin County and Xiasha District of Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province. The YRS adsorbed more Hg(2+) than the SLS. The characteristics of Hg adsorption could be described by the simple Langmuir adsorption equation (r2 = 0.999 and 0.999, P < 0.01, respectively, for the SLS and YRS). The maximum adsorption values (Xm) that were obtained from the simple Langmuir model were 111 and 213 mg Hg(2+) kg(-1) soil, respectively, for the SLS and YRS. Adsorption of Hg(2+) decreased soil pH by 0.75 unit for the SLS soil and 0.91 unit for the YRS soil at the highest loading. The distribution coefficient (kd) of Hg in the soil decreased exponentially with increasing Hg(2+) loading. After five successive desorptions with 0.01 mol L(-1) KCl solution (pH 5.4), 0 to 24.4% of the total adsorbed Hg(2+) in the SLS soil was desorbed and the corresponding value of the YRS soil was 0 to 14.4%, indicating that the SLS soil had a lower affinity for Hg(2+) than the YRS soil at the same Hg(2+) loading. Different mechanisms are likely involved in Hg(2+) adsorption-desorption at different levels of Hg(2+) loading and between the two soils.
18396559	A near-trench paddy field experiment with five urea application rates (0-360 kg N ha(-1) in 90-kg increments) was conducted on a paddy soil in the Taihu Lake Region of China to elucidate N losses through lateral seepage during three rice (Oryza sativa L.) growing seasons. The total N (Nt), NH4(+) -N, and NO3(-) -N concentrations in the lateral seepage water increased with increasing N rates. The seasonal Nt fluxes by lateral seepage varied from 6.8 to 25.6 kg N ha(-1) for urea application rates of 90 to 360 kg N ha(-1). Lateral seepage accounted for 4.7 to 6.6% of the Nt applied, implying that lateral seepage was an important pathway of N loss from near-trench paddy fields. The cumulative N loss via lateral seepage was significantly related to N fertilization rate (P = 0.05). Floodwater level was also identified as a main factor affecting N losses via lateral seepage from paddy fields, as indicated by a positive linear relationship (R2 = 0.43) between floodwater level and daily lateral flow during the flooded period (P = 0.05). Under the conditions of these experiments, a shallow floodwater depth of 50 mm, urea application rates of 90 kg N ha(-1) or less, and no rainfall within 1 wk after N application reduced N losses by lateral seepage from paddy fields.
18396804	Polymyxo graminis, a ubiquitous plasmodiophorid obligate root endoparasite, is recognized as the vector of about 15 viruses on cereals and groundnut in temperate and tropical areas. Within the species, five special forms have been distinguished on the basis of specific ribotypes. Three of them occur in tropical areas: P. graminis f.sp. colombiana on rice, P. graminis f.sp. subtropicalis on cereals cropped in the tropics such as maize, pearl millet and sorghum but also on barley and/or wheat, and P. graminis f.sp. tropicalis mainly on maize, pearl millet and sorghum. Their particular host ranges distinguish them significantly from P. graminis f.sp. temperata and P. graminis f.sp. tepida found in temperate areas on barley and wheat. In order to assess whether these special forms commonly infect these cereals, barley and wheat plants were grown under controlled conditions on two soils from Belgium and France and both infested by P. graminis f.sp. temperata and P. graminis f.sp. tepida. The infection of each cereal species by each form was quantified by real-time quantitative PCR with specific primers and Taqman probes. The infection of P. graminis f.sp. temperata was significantly higher on barley than on wheat, whereas the quantities of P. graminis f.sp. tepida on wheat were higher than on barley. These results show that the distinction between these special forms, based on the ribotype, reflects differences in ecological features.
18396838
18397370	Two novel rice cold shock domain (CSD) proteins were cloned and characterized under different stress treatments and during various stages of development. OsCSP1 and OsCSP2 (Oryza sativa CSD protein) encode putative proteins consisting of an N-terminal CSD and glycine-rich regions that are interspersed by 4 and 2 CX(2)CX(4)HX(4)C (CCHC) retroviral-like zinc fingers, respectively. In vivo functional analysis confirmed that OsCSPs can complement a cold-sensitive bacterial strain which lacks four endogenous cold shock proteins. In vitro ssDNA binding assays determined that recombinant OsCSPs are capable of functioning as nucleic acid-binding proteins. Both OsCSP transcripts are transiently up-regulated in response to low-temperature stress and rapidly return to a basal level of gene expression. Protein blot analysis determined that OsCSPs are maintained at a constant level subsequent to a cold treatment lasting over a period of several days. Both the transcript and protein data are in sharp contrast to those previously obtained for winter wheat WCSP1. A time-coursed study through various stages of rice development confirmed that both OsCSP proteins and transcripts are highly accumulated in reproductive tissues and tissues which exhibit meristematic activity.
18397784	The 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) functions as a translational enhancer in monocotyledonous plant cells is necessary to express a foreign gene efficiently. Here, we show that the 5'-UTR of the rice alcohol dehydrogenase gene contributes to efficient translation in not only dicotyledonous plant cells, but also in monocotyledonous rice cells.
18398005	The wheat gene-rich region (GRR) 5L0.5 contains many important genes, including Ph1, the principal regulator of chromosome pairing. Comparative marker analysis identified 32 genes for the GRR controlling important agronomic traits. Detailed characterization of this region was accomplished by first physically localizing 213 wheat group 5L-specific markers, using group 5 nulli-tetrasomics, three Ph1 gene deletion/insertion mutants, and nine terminal deletion lines with their breakpoints around the 5L0.5 region. The Ph1 gene was localized to a much smaller region within the GRR (Ph1 gene region). Of the 61 markers that mapped in the four subregions of the GRR, 9 mapped in the Ph1 gene region. High stringency sequence comparison (e < 1 x10(-25)) of 157 group 5L-specific wheat ESTs identified orthologs for 80% sequences in rice and 71% in Arabidopsis. Rice orthologs were present on all rice chromosomes, although most (34%) were on rice chromosome 9 (R9). No single collinear region was identified in Arabidopsis even for a smaller region, such as the Ph1 gene region. Seven of the nine Ph1 gene region markers mapped within a 450-kb region on R9 with the same gene order. Detailed domain/motif analysis of the 91 putative genes present in the 450-kb region identified 26 candidates for the Ph1 gene, including genes involved in chromatin reorganization, microtubule attachment, acetyltransferases, methyltransferases, DNA binding, and meiosis/anther specific proteins. Five of these genes shared common domains/motifs with the meiosis specific genes Zip1, Scp1, Cor1, RAD50, RAD51, and RAD57. Wheat and Arabidopsis homologs for these rice genes were identified.
18398179	A Gram-negative, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming organism, strain MSSRF26T, was isolated from mangrove-associated wild rice in India. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, strain MSSRF26T was shown to belong to the Alphaproteobacteria, most closely related to Altererythrobacter luteolus and Altererythrobacter epoxidivorans (96.1 and 95.9 % similarity to the respective type strains). Chemotaxonomic data [major ubiquinones Q-10 (91 %) and Q-9 (9 %); major polyamine spermidine, with putrescine, cadaverine and spermine detected only in trace amounts; major polar lipids phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol and sphingoglycolipid; major fatty acid C18 : 1 omega 7c and C(14 : 0) 2-OH as hydroxylated fatty acid] supported the affiliation of MSSRF26T to the genus Altererythrobacter. Fatty acid data and physiological and biochemical tests allowed phenotypic differentiation of the isolate from described Altererythrobacter species. Strain MSSRF26T therefore represents a novel species, for which the name Altererythrobacter indicus sp. nov. is proposed, with the type strain MSSRF26T (=LMG 23789T =DSM 18604T).
18398197	A novel mesophilic, hydrogenotrophic methanogen, strain SANAET, was isolated from an anaerobic, propionate-degrading enrichment culture, which was originally established from rice paddy soil. The cells were non-motile, Gram-negative and rod-shaped (1.8-2.4 microm long by 0.3-0.6 microm wide). Growth of strain SANAET was observed at 25-40 degrees C, with an optimum temperature range for growth of 35-37 degrees C. The pH range for growth was 6.5-7.8, with an optimum at pH 7.0. The salinity range for growth was 0-1 g NaCl l(-1) (0-17 mM). The isolate was able to utilize H2/CO2 and formate for growth and methane production. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 56.6 mol%. Based on comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, strain SANAET was affiliated with a clone lineage of the Archaea, Rice Cluster I (RC-I), placing it between the orders Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales within the class 'Methanomicrobia'. 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities between strain SANAET and members of Methanosarcinales were in the range 80.0-82.8 %, and those between the strain and members of Methanomicrobiales ranged from 77.5 to 82.4 %. In addition to 16S rRNA gene analysis, sequence analysis of the mcrA gene (encoding the alpha subunit of methyl-coenzyme M reductase, a key enzyme in the methane production pathway) also showed that strain SANAET was affiliated with the RC-I lineage. Here, we propose the name Methanocella paludicola gen. nov., sp. nov. for the isolate, the first of the RC-I lineage. The type strain is SANAET (=JCM 13418T=NBRC 101707T=DSM 17711T). In addition, we also propose the status of order for the RC-I lineage, for which we propose the name Methanocellales ord. nov.
1839916	The socioeconomic, social behaviour and dietary pattern of 100 Aborigines and Malays, aged 7 years and above from Kuala Pangsoon, Selangor Malaysia were studied by using pretested questionnaires. The individual's dietary intake was estimated using 24 hour recall for 3 days within one week which was chosen at random. The household's food consumption pattern was evaluated using food frequency questionnaires. There was no difference in the total income per month for both communities, as well as the educational attainment of the head of household and property ownership. The proportion of smokers among the Aborigines and the Malays was almost similar (33%) but the percentage of heavy smokers was higher among Aborigines compared to Malays. One third of the Aborigines regularly consume alcohol. The main energy source for both communities was rice, sugar and cooking oil whilst fish and eggs were the main sources of protein. More than 50% of the Aborigines take tapioca or tapioca leaves at least once a week compared to less than 20% among the Malays. There was no significant different in the intake of energy, protein and carbohydrate between the groups. However, the Aborigines take less fats and iron compared to the Malays. The difference in terms of smoking, drinking habit and dietary intake may determine the distribution of disease in both communities.
18399457
18399471	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvato lugens Stat. (BPH) is the most devastating insect pest in rice fields. Outbreaks of BPH, which are resistant to many synthetic insecticides, can cause total rice crop loss. This research was done to evaluate the efficiency of extracts of mangosteen pericarp (Garcina mangostana L.) as an alternative control of BPH Thailand strain. Topical spraying was applied to various stages of nymphal and adult BPH to determine toxicity. An ethanol extract of mangosteen pericarp extract gave the best control of BPH, with LC50 of 4.5% w/v (r2 = 0.95) with 3rd instar BPH nymphs when compared with the other solvents, hexane, acetone and dichloromethane. The active compound, alpha-mangostin showed an LC50 of 5.44%w/v (r2 = 0.88). The toxicity of this extract was less than that of Imidacloprid which showed an LC50 of 0.0042% w/v (r2 = 0.99). The toxicity to non-target organisms was determined. This extract showed toxicity to guppies ((LC50 = 2.53 and 4.27 ppm for females and males, respectively; r2 = 0.97 and 0.97, respectively), bees (LC50 = 4.38% w/v, r2 = 0.95) and mice (no oral acute toxicity and no dermal inflammation but showed eye irritation in 1 day which became normal within 3 days). In vitro detoxification enzyme activities of carboxylesterase, acetylcholinesterase and glutathione-s-transferase from BPH after 24 hours exposure were also observed. Carboxylesterase showed stronger activity than other enzymes. Toxicity in terms of LC50 values of both the extract and imidacloprid treatments increased in each generation. The LC50 values for each generation were 4.22-6.67 after sequential spraying. After the ethanol extract was kept at 4 degrees C, room temperature and 55 degrees C for 3 months, the quantity of alpha-mangostin and the BPH control efficiency was lower at 55 degrees C than those for other temperatures. The results from this research indicate that mangosteen pericarp extract can be an alternative insecticide for the control of BPH, which may possess high efficiency, cause with fewer environmental problems and result in less resistance in the BPH.
1839978	1. The presence and partial characterization of immunoreactive atrial natriuretic peptide (ir-ANP) in the bulbus arteriosus were investigated using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and radioimmunoassay (RIA) in several freshwater teleostean fish (catfish, silver crusian carp, snakehead, and rice eel). 2. The level of ir-ANP in the bulbus arteriosus was comparable with that in the atria at about 5-15 pg/mg, 6-13 pg/mg wet wt, respectively, but was 2-4-fold higher than that in the ventricles in all species observed. 3. The HPLC profile of ir-ANP showed two main peaks corresponding to low and high mol. wt rat ANPs. 4. Our results provide evidence for the presence of ir-ANP with high as well as low mol. wts in the bulbus arteriosus of freshwater teleostean fish.
18399975	Considering the effect of natural fermentation on the textural improvement of fermented rice noodles in China and South Asia, and given the lack of reports concerning microbial populations and structure in the fermentation process, this study aims to determine the number of viable micro-organisms and identify the species isolated from the local factories, and to assess their potential use as a starter culture from their enzymatic profiles. Fourteen samples from three local factories were analysed for the presence of micro-organisms. A total of 170 lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and 96 yeasts were isolated from the factories. The isolates were phenotypically characterized by using API 50 CHL kits, API 20 Strep kits, API ID 32 C kits and by performing additional biochemical tests. The enzymatic profiles of isolates were assessed by using API ZYM kits. Lactobacillus plantarum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae were identified as predominant species in the fermented supernatants. A majority of the isolates of LAB and yeasts displayed activities of alpha-glucosidase, beta-glucosidase, lipase and trypsin. The microbial composition and strain characteristics present in the fermentation supernatant demonstrate that a majority of micro-organisms have the ability to digest starch, sugar, protein or lipid. It supports our previous work in which the rice starch was modified and purified by fermentation and thus improves the texture of rice noodles. The dominant strains would be important in developing a starter culture. The results can form the basis for the improvement of product quality and consistency.
18400237	Extracts of cultures grown in liquid or on solid rice media of the fungal endophyte Ampelomyces sp. isolated from the medicinal plant Urospermum picroides exhibited considerable cytotoxic activity when tested in vitro against L5178Y cells. Chromatographic separation yielded 14 natural products that were unequivocally identified based on their 1H and 13C NMR as well as mass spectra and comparison with previously published data. Six compounds (2, 4, 5, 7, 9 and 11) were natural products. Both fungal extracts differed considerably in their secondary metabolites. The extract obtained from liquid cultures afforded a pyrone (2) and sulfated anthraquinones (7 and 9) along with the known compounds 1, 3, 6 and 8. When grown on solid rice medium the fungus yielded three compounds 4, 5 and 11 in addition to several known metabolites including 6, 8, 10, 12, 13 and 14. Compounds 4, 8 and 10 showed the strongest cytotoxic activity against L5178Y cells with EC50 values ranging from 0.2-7.3microg/ml. Furthermore, 8 and 10 displayed antimicrobial activity against the Gram-positive pathogens, Staphylococcus aureus, S. epidermidis and Enterococcus faecalis at minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of 12.5microg/ml and 12.5-25microg/ml, respectively. Interestingly, 6 and 8 were also identified as constituents of an extract derived from a healthy plant sample of the host plant U. picroides thereby indicating that the production of bioactive natural products by the endophyte proceeds also under in situ conditions within the host plant.
18400710	Ascorbic acid (AA) enhances and tea inhibits iron absorption. It is unclear whether iron status influences the magnitude of this effect. We evaluated the influence of the iron status of young women on iron absorption from a rice meal with or without added tea or AA. Two stable-isotope iron absorption studies were made in 2 groups of 10 subjects with iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and 10 subjects who were iron replete (control subjects). In study 1, the reference rice meal was fed alone or with 1 or 2 cups of black tea. In study 2, the reference meal was fed alone or with AA (molar ratio to iron, 2:1 or 4:1). Iron absorption was measured by the erythrocyte incorporation of (57)Fe and (58)Fe labels at 14 d. Mean fractional iron absorption from the reference rice meal was approximately 2.5 times as great in the IDA group as in the control group (P < 0.05). The consumption of 1 or 2 cups of tea decreased iron absorption in the control subjects by 49% (P < 0.05) or 66% (P < 0.01), respectively, and in the IDA group by 59% or 67% (P < 0.001 for both), respectively. AA (molar ratio to iron, 2:1 or 4:1) increased iron absorption by 270% or 343%, respectively, in control subjects and by 291% or 350%, respectively, in subjects with IDA (P < 0.001). The inhibitory effect of tea and the enhancing effect of AA on iron absorption were similar in the 2 groups. Overall differences in iron absorption in the 2 groups, however, continued to be dictated by iron status.
18401574	Boron toxicity tolerance of rice plants was studied. Modern japonica subspecies such as Koshihikari, Nipponbare, and Sasanishiki were tolerant, whereas indica subspecies such as Kasalath and IR36 were intolerant to excessive application of boron (B), even though their shoot B contents under B toxicity were not significantly different. Recombinant inbred lines (RILs) of japonica Nekken-1 and indica IR36 were used for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis to identify the gene responsible for B toxicity tolerance. A major QTL that could explain 45% of the phenotypic variation was detected in chromosome 4. The QTL was confirmed using a population derived from a recombinant inbred line which is heterogenic at the QTL region. The QTL was also confirmed in other chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs).
18401861	This study examines the supercritical carbon dioxide (SC-CO(2)) extraction of oryzanols contained rice bran oil from powdered rice bran. The extraction efficiencies and concentration factors of oryzanols, free fatty acids and triglycerides in the SC-CO(2) extracts were determined. With top-flow type SC-CO(2) extraction the total oil yield was 18.1% and the extraction efficiencies of oryzanols and triglycerides were 88.5 and 91.3% respectively, when 2750 g CO(2)was consumed during the extraction of 35 g rice bran powder. The concentration factors of oryzanols and triglycerides in SC-CO(2)-extracted oil were higher than in the Soxhlet n-hexane extracted oil. SC-CO(2) extractions indicated that pressure can be used more effectively than temperature to enhance the extraction efficiency and concentration factor of oryzanols. A two-factor central composite scheme of response surface methodology was employed to determine the optimal pressure (300 bar) and temperature (313 K) for increasing the concentration of oryzanols in the SC-CO(2) extracted oil.
18404336	Twenty-eight samples of mericarps of Perilla frutescens var. frutescens were collected through fieldwork performed in Phongsali and Xieng Khouang provinces in northern Laos. No perilla samples were collected from Savannakhet province in the south although more than 20 sites were investigated. Perilla plants are mostly grown mixed with dry-paddy rice by slash-and-burn cultivation in Laos. The most popular local name for perilla mericarps in the area was "Ma Nga Chan". Weight of 1,000 grains and hardness of the mericarps were measured, and all mericarps were found to be large (weight of 1,000 grains around 2 g) and soft (limit load weight under 300 g), which were preferred for culinary use in Laos. The composition of the essential oils obtained from the herbaceous plants raised from the mericarps was divided into five types, perillaketone, elemicine plus myristicine, shisofuran, piperitenon, and myristicine, and GC-MS analysis of these Laotian perilla samples showed that they were similar to those of corresponding types of known Japanese perilla strains. One of the shisofuran-type perilla contained large amounts of putative alpha-naginatene, which is likely to be an intermediate of the biosynthesis of naginataketone. The farmers' indifference to the oil type of the leaf seems to leave Laotian perilla as a good genetic resource for studies of the biosynthesis of oil compounds.
1840527	The rpl33-rps18 gene cluster of the maize chloroplast genome has been mapped and sequenced. The derived amino acid sequence of the S18 protein shows a 7-fold repeat of a hydrophilic heptapeptide domain, S K Q P F R K, in the N-terminal region. Such a sequence is absent in the E. coli S18 and in the chloroplast S18 of the lower plant liverwort. In tobacco and rice chloroplast S18 it is present 2 and 6 times, respectively. Thus a long N-terminal repeat (resembling in composition the large C-terminal heptapeptide repeat in the eukaryotic pol II) appears to be characteristic of monocot cereal S18.
18406070	MGN-3/Biobran, a modified form of arabinoxylan from rice bran, is a potent biological response modifier (BRM). Our previous studies demonstrated that MGN-3 sensitizes human leukemia cells to death receptor [CD95]-induced apoptosis [Ghoneum M, Gollapudi S. MGN-3 sensitizes human T cell leukemia cells to death receptor (CD95)-induced apoptosis. Cancer Lett 2003;201:41-9]. In this study, we evaluated the chemo-sensitizing activity of MGN-3 against human breast cancer cells (BCCs) in vitro. BCCs (MCF-7 and HCC70 cells) were cultured with different concentrations of daunorubicin (DNR) (from 1x10(-9) to 1x10(-6)M) in the presence or absence of selected concentrations of MGN-3 (100-1000mug/ml) for 3 days. Cancer cell survival was determined by MTT assay and drug accumulation was determined by flow cytometry. Treatment with MGN-3 increased susceptibility of BCCs to DNR (5.5-fold for MCF-7 and 2.5-fold for HCC70 cells) as compared to BCCs treated with DNR alone. The sensitizing effect of MGN-3 was associated with increased accumulation of DNR in cancer cells. Our data demonstrate that MGN-3 is an effective chemo-sensitizer and may represent a potential novel adjuvant for the treatment of breast cancer.
1840621	A new cDNA and two genomic genes encoding the rice storage protein glutelin were isolated and sequenced. The nucleotide sequence of one gene (GluA-3) was completely identical with that of the new cDNA identified here, and the other (GluA-4) was a pseudogene. These glutelin genes were closely related to each other, and belonged to the subfamily A containing the type I (GluA-1) and II (GluA-2) glutelin genes. The Northern blot analysis, using synthetic oligonucleotide specific to the GluA-3 gene as a probe, showed that this gene was expressed earlier than other glutelin genes during seed maturation.
18407058	The heat shock transcription factors (HSFs) are the major heat shock factors regulating the heat stress response. They participate in regulating the expression of heat shock proteins (HSPs), which are critical in the protection against stress damage and many other important biological processes. Study of the HSF gene family is important for understanding the mechanism by which plants respond to stress. The completed genome sequences of rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) constitute a valuable resource for comparative genomic analysis, as they are representatives of the two major evolutionary lineages within the angiosperms: the monocotyledons and the dicotyledons. The identification of phylogenetic relationships among HSF proteins in these species is a fundamental step to unravel the functionality of new and yet uncharacterized genes belonging to this family. In this study, the full complement of HSF genes in rice and Arabidopsis has probably been identified through the genome-wide scan. Phylogenetic analyses resulted in the identification of three major clusters of orthologous genes that contain members belonging to both species, which must have been represented in their common ancestor before the taxonomic splitting of the angiosperms. Further analysis of the phylogenetic tree reveals a possible dicot specific gene group. We also identified nine pairs of paralogs, as evidence for studies on the evolution history of rice HSF family and rice genome evolution. Expression data analysis indicates that HSF proteins are widely expressed in plants. These results provide a solid base for future functional genomic studies of the HSF gene family in rice and Arabidopsis.
18407605	To investigate the association of alcohol dose, duration of drinking and obesity with abnormal alcohol-related liver injury indicators, the prevalence of alcohol-related liver injury in the island population of China. Randomized multistage stratified cluster sampling from the island population of China was used in the population-based case-control study. Then interview, physical examination, laboratory assessments and ultrasonography were done. Daily alcohol intake > or = 20 g, duration of drinking > or = 5 years and obesity were closely related to alcohol-related liver injury (P < 0.05). The odds-ratio (OR) (95% CI) was 1.965 (1.122-3.442), 3.412 (1.789-6.507) and 1.887 (1.261-2.824), respectively. The prevalence rate of alcohol-related liver injury in > or = 20 g daily alcohol intake group and < 20 g daily alcohol intake group was 37.14% and 12.06%, respectively. The prevalence rate of alcohol-related liver injury in > or = 5 years drinking group and < 5 years drinking group was 34.44% and 8.53%, respectively. No significant dose-response relation was found between daily alcohol intake and abnormal alcohol-related liver injury indicators as well as between duration of drinking and abnormal alcohol-related liver injury indicators. There was no significant difference in the prevalence of alcohol-related liver injury between beer drinking group and yellow rice wine drinking group, hard liquor drinking group, multiple drinking group. The risk threshold of daily alcohol intake is 20 g and duration of drinking inducing alcohol-related liver injury 5 years in the island population of China. Liver injury induced by obesity should be concerned.
18407811	Did economic development result in an improvement in biological welfare in the tropics before the diffusion of modern public health techniques in the 1950s and 1960s? Between the mid-19th and early 20th century, Lower Burma experienced a rapid rise in population and became increasingly commercialized as a major rice exporter. Land reclamation on a massive scale in the Irrawaddy delta required an arduous process of jungle clearance, land drainage and preparation, and canal and bund construction, mostly in malarial swamps. Once paddy lands were created, rice was grown with rudimentary tools in malarial zones. By contrast, in most parts of Upper Burma the economy remained more subsistence-oriented, and less commercialized. In this paper, we investigate changes in physical stature by processing and analyzing data reported in two anthropometric surveys conducted in various regions of Upper and Lower Burma in 1904 and in 1938-1941. An inverted U curve is observed in the evolution of average height in Lower Burma, while stature remained fairly stable in Upper Burma until the 1930s.
18407957	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) plays a dual role in plants as the toxic by-product of normal cell metabolism and as a regulatory molecule in stress perception and signal transduction. However, a clear inventory as to how this dual function is regulated in plants is far from complete. In particular, how plants maintain survival under oxidative stress via adjustments of the intercellular metabolic network and antioxidative system is largely unknown. To investigate the responses of rice seedlings to H2O2 stress, changes in protein expression were analyzed using a comparative proteomics approach. Treatments with different concentrations of H2O2 for 6 h on 12-day-old rice seedlings resulted in several stressful phenotypes such as rolling leaves, decreased photosynthetic and photorespiratory rates, and elevated H2O2 accumulation. Analysis of approximately 2000 protein spots on each two-dimensional electrophoresis gel revealed 144 differentially expressed proteins. Of them, 65 protein spots were up-regulated, and 79 were down-regulated under at least one of the H2O2 treatment concentrations. Furthermore 129 differentially expressed protein spots were identified by mass spectrometry to match 89 diverse protein species. These identified proteins are involved in different cellular responses and metabolic processes with obvious functional tendencies toward cell defense, redox homeostasis, signal transduction, protein synthesis and degradation, photosynthesis and photorespiration, and carbohydrate/energy metabolism, indicating a good correlation between oxidative stress-responsive proteins and leaf physiological changes. The abundance changes of these proteins, together with their putative functions and participation in physiological reactions, produce an oxidative stress-responsive network at the protein level in H2O2-treated rice seedling leaves. Such a protein network allows us to further understand the possible management strategy of cellular activities occurring in the H2O2-treated rice seedling leaves and provides new insights into oxidative stress responses in plants.
18409027	The mobile nonautonomous element nDart, which is active in intact rice plants, exhibits locus specific transposition. Due to the high homogeneity of nDart elements, the locus specificity of nDart transposition might be controlled by factors other than genetic differences. In this study, we elucidated the regulation of the locus specificity of nDart transposition. The difference of transpositional activities in 10 nDart elements among rice varieties exhibiting nDart transposition was clearly correlated with the methylation state of nDart elements. Both hyper- and hypo-methylated nDart elements were inactive, while site specific methylation in both subterminal regions was identified in active nDart loci. The specific methylation sites contain the pentamer motif GCC/ACG. The repeated motifs in the subterminal region of nDart elements may contribute to the stable secondary structure of nDart elements with low free energy. Our results suggested that site specific cytosine methylation may loosen the stable secondary structure of the nDart element to allow it to bind TPase, which then perform the excision of nDart elements from genomic loci.
18409684	Dicarboximide fungicides (DF) such as vinclozolin, iprodione, procymidone are widely used on vines, fruit and vegetables, and anilide herbicides (AH) such as diuron, linuron, propanil are used to control weeds on hard surfaces, such as, roads, railway tracks, paths, and in crops, forestry. Italian reports on food safety found many samples contaminated by pesticides belonging to these categories, even though only few exceeding L.M.R. Since adverse effects on human health, such as endocrine disruption, have been reported, biological monitoring is essential for exposure assessment both of occupationally exposed subjects and of the general population. Common metabolites of DF and AH are dichloroanilinines such as 3,4-DCA and 3,5-DCA, urine samples from 153 subjects living in Novafeltria, central Italy, were collected for analysis of 3,4- and 3,5-DCAs, each participant was invited to complete a very detailed questionnaire. A total of 151 out of 153 samples were found to be positive for 3,5-DCA, and 81.7% were positive for 3,4-DCA. Also 33 workers, engaged in application of propanil on rice in northern Italy, were involved in the study and 3,4-DCA was determined as marker of exposure. 3,4 and 3,5 dichloroaniline are useful and promising biological indicators for monitoring occupational and environmental exposure to these classes of pesticides.
18410482	Previous studies have demonstrated that the major storage protein RNAs found in the rice endosperm are transported as particles via actomyosin to specific subdomains of the cortical endoplasmic reticulum. In this study, we examined the potential role of OsTudor-SN, a major cytoskeletal-associated RNA binding protein, in RNA transport and localization. OsTudor-SN molecules occur as high-molecular-weight forms, the integrity of which are sensitive to RNase. Immunoprecipitation followed by RT-PCR showed that OsTudor-SN binds prolamine and glutelin RNAs. Immunofluorescence studies using affinity-purified antibodies show that OsTudor-SNs exists as particles in the cytoplasm, and are distributed to both the protein body endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and cisternal ER. Examination of OsTudor-SN particles in transgenic rice plants expressing GFP-tagged prolamine RNA transport particles showed co-localization of OsTudor-SN and GFP, suggesting a role in RNA transport. Consistent with this view, GFP-tagged OsTudor-SN is observed in living endosperm sections as moving particles, a property inhibited by microfilament inhibitors. Downregulation of OsTudor-SN by antisense and RNAi resulted in a decrease in steady state prolamine RNA and protein levels, and a reduction in the number of prolamine protein bodies. Collectively, these results show that OsTudor-SN is a component of the RNA transport particle, and may control storage protein biosynthesis by regulating one or more processes leading to the transport, localization and anchoring of their RNAs to the cortical ER.
18411206	The position of a poly(A) site of eukaryotic mRNA is determined by sequence signals in pre-mRNA and a group of polyadenylation factors. To reveal rice poly(A) signals at a genome level, we constructed a dataset of 55 742 authenticated poly(A) sites and characterized the poly(A) signals. This resulted in identifying the typical tripartite cis-elements, including FUE, NUE and CE, as previously observed in Arabidopsis. The average size of the 3'-UTR was 289 nucleotides. When mapped to the genome, however, 15% of these poly(A) sites were found to be located in the currently annotated intergenic regions. Moreover, an extensive alternative polyadenylation profile was evident where 50% of the genes analyzed had more than one unique poly(A) site (excluding microheterogeneity sites), and 13% had four or more poly(A) sites. About 4% of the analyzed genes possessed alternative poly(A) sites at their introns, 5'-UTRs, or protein coding regions. The authenticity of these alternative poly(A) sites was partially confirmed using MPSS data. Analysis of nucleotide profile and signal patterns indicated that there may be a different set of poly(A) signals for those poly(A) sites found in the coding regions. Based on the features of rice poly(A) signals, an updated algorithm termed PASS-Rice was designed to predict poly(A) sites.
18413358	WRKY transcription factors play important roles in the regulation of various biological processes. We have analyzed the publicly available rice genome sequence databases and predicted 103 genes encoding WRKY transcription factors. Among them, the majority of rice WRKY genes (77.7%) were located in duplicated regions; 45.6% of WRKY genes were fragmentally duplicated and 35% of them were tandemly duplicated. These results suggested that genome duplications might be regarded as a major mechanism for expansion of this family in the rice genome. Subsequently, we analyzed their expression profiles under normal and abiotic stress, as well as various hormone treatments. Under normal growth conditions, 65 WRKY genes were expressed differentially either in their transcript abundance or in their expression patterns. Under abiotic (cold, drought and salinity) stresses and various phytohormone treatments, 54 WRKY genes exhibited significant differences in their transcript abundance; among them three genes were expressed only in stressed conditions. Among the stress-inducible genes, 13 genes were regulated only by abiotic stresses, another set of 13 genes were responsive to only phytohormone treatments and the remaining 28 genes were regulated by both factors, suggesting an interaction between abiotic stress and hormone signaling. On the other hand, we have also surveyed the expression divergence of duplicated genes under normal or stressed conditions, and the results showed that high expression divergence has occurred not only among fragmentally but also among tandemly duplicated genes. These results suggested that the high expression divergence could be one of the mechanisms for the retention of these duplicated WRKY genes.
18413994	Flavanone 3beta-hydroxylases (F3H) are key enzymes in the synthesis of flavonol and anthocyanin. In this study, three F3H cDNAs from Oryza sativa (OsF3H-1 approximately 3) were cloned by RT-PCR and expressed in E. coli as gluthatione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins. The purified recombinant OsF3Hs used flavanone, naringenin and eriodictyol as substrates. The reaction products with naringen and eriodictyol were determined by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to be dihydrokaempferol and taxifolin, respectively. OsF3H-1 had the highest enzymatic activity whereas the overall expression of OsF3H-2 was highest in all tissues except seeds. Flavanone 3beta-hydroxylase could be a useful target for flavonoid metabolic engineering in rice.
18414000	The carbon-ion beam (CIB) generated by the heavy-ion medical accelerator in Chiba (HIMAC) was targeted to 7-day-old rice. Physiological parameters such as growth, and gene expression profiles were examined immediately after CIB irradiation. Dose-dependent growth suppression was seen three days post-irradiation (PI), and all the irradiated plants died by 15 days PI. Microarray (Agilent rice 22K) analysis of the plants immediately after irradiation (iai) revealed effects on gene expression at 270 Gy; 353 genes were up-regulated and 87 down-regulated. Exactly the same set of genes was affected at 90 Gy. Among the highly induced genes were genes involved in information storage and processing, cellular processes and signaling, and metabolism. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the microarray data.
18414002	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5B (eIF5B) plays a role in recognition of the AUG codon in conjunction with translation factor eIF2, and promotes joining of the 60S ribosomal subunit. To see whether the eIF5B proteins of other organisms function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we cloned the corresponding genes from Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana, Aspergillus nidulans and Candida albican and expressed them under the control of the galactose-inducible GAL promoter in the fun12Delta strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Expression of Candida albicans eIF5B complemented the slow-growth phenotype of the fun12Delta strain, but that of Aspergillus nidulance did not, despite the fact that its protein was expressed better than that of Candida albicans. The Arabidopsis thaliana protein was also not functional in Saccharomyces. These results reveal that the eIF5B in Candida albicans has a close functional relationship with that of Sacharomyces cerevisiae, as also shown by a phylogenetic analysis based on the amino acid sequences of the eIF5Bs.
18414632	The pesticides monocrotophos, methamidophos, and endosulfan were a very common cause of severe poisoning in Sri Lanka during the 1980s and early 1990s, before they were banned in 1995 and 1998. Now, the most commonly used insecticides are the less toxic World Health Organization Class II organophosphorus pesticides and carbamates. These bans were followed by a large reduction in both fatal poisonings and suicide in Sri Lanka. We aimed to see if these bans adversely affected agricultural production or costs. We used data from the World Resources Institute to compare the yields of the main crop groups in Sri Lanka with those from surrounding South Asian countries for 1980-2005. We also examined data from the Sri Lankan Department of Census and Statistics to examine the yields of 13 specific vegetable crops and rice for 1990-2003, along with the costs of rice production. We found no drop in productivity in the years after the main bans were instituted (1995, 1998). We observed substantial annual fluctuation in estimated yields in all data sources, but these did not coincide with the bans and were no larger than the fluctuations in other countries. Also, there was no sudden change in costs of rice production coinciding with bans. Countries aiming to apply restrictions to reduce deaths from pesticide poisoning should evaluate agricultural needs and develop a plan that encourages substitution of less toxic pesticides. If farmers have an affordable alternative for pest control for each crop, there is no obvious adverse effect on agricultural output.
18414912	Lrk (Lr10 receptor-like kinase) and Tak (Triticum aestivum kinase) belong to the receptor-like kinase (RLK) supergene family in higher plants. Three Lrk/Tak gene regions spanning greater than 600 kb were identified via a genome-wide survey of barley gene-rich BAC clones. Two Lrk/Tak gene clusters are positioned on barley chromosome 3 (3H) and another is localized on chromosome 5 (1H), with each Lrk and Tak open reading frame physically positioned in a back-to-back orientation. Thirteen new Lrk/Tak-like fragments were cloned from the two clusters on 3H and the single cluster on 1H, respectively, and compared phylogenetically with other grass Lrk/Tak-like genes, including a 280-kb Lrk/Tak cluster on rice chromosome 1S. Physically clustered Lrk/Tak-like genes always form monophyletic groups; this suggests that the primary mechanism of expansion of the Lrk/Tak RLK super family was by tandem duplication, of which most members were duplicated after speciation of the Poaceae. Cultivar-dependent transcript accumulation of some Lrk/Tak family members on 3H, as revealed via Barley1 GeneChip microarray analysis, is consistent with the hypothesis of subfunctionalization of Lrk/Tak members following tandem duplication.
18415715	Production of recombinant subunit vaccines in transgenic plants may be a means of reducing vaccine costs while increasing availability and safety. A plant-derived product found safe and effective for oral administration would provide additional advantages when used as a vaccine. Outstanding issues with the technology include transgene stability through successive generations and consistent bioproduction. We previously reported expression of glycoprotein B (gB) of human cytomegalovirus in seeds of transgenic tobacco. Here the goal was to determine if gB could be similarly expressed in rice, and if so, to examine expression over several plant generations. Results show that immunoreactive gB was successfully expressed in transgenic rice seeds, with sustained expression over three generations. The gB contained several neutralizing epitopes and was stable over 27 months.
18416853	Plotless density estimators are those that are based on distance measures rather than counts per unit area (quadrats or plots) to estimate the density of some usually stationary event, e.g. burrow openings, damage to plant stems, etc. These estimators typically use distance measures between events and from random points to events to derive an estimate of density. The error and bias of these estimators for the various spatial patterns found in nature have been examined using simulated populations only. In this study we investigated eight plotless density estimators to determine which were robust across a wide range of data sets from fully mapped field sites. They covered a wide range of situations including animal damage to rice and corn, nest locations, active rodent burrows and distribution of plants. Monte Carlo simulations were applied to sample the data sets, and in all cases the error of the estimate (measured as relative root mean square error) was reduced with increasing sample size. The method of calculation and ease of use in the field were also used to judge the usefulness of the estimator. Estimators were evaluated in their original published forms, although the variable area transect (VAT) and ordered distance methods have been the subjects of optimization studies. An estimator that was a compound of three basic distance estimators was found to be robust across all spatial patterns for sample sizes of 25 or greater. The same field methodology can be used either with the basic distance formula or the formula used with the Kendall-Moran estimator in which case a reduction in error may be gained for sample sizes less than 25, however, there is no improvement for larger sample sizes. The variable area transect (VAT) method performed moderately well, is easy to use in the field, and its calculations easy to undertake. Plotless density estimators can provide an estimate of density in situations where it would not be practical to layout a plot or quadrat and can in many cases reduce the workload in the field.
18417341	In this study, cellulose hydrolysis activity of two mixed bacterial consortia (NS and QS) was investigated. Combination of NS culture and BHM medium exhibited better hydrolytic activity under the optimal condition of 35 degrees C, initial pH 7.0, and 100rpm agitation. The NS culture could hydrolyze carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), rice husk, bagasse and filter paper, among which CMC gave the best hydrolysis performance. The CMC hydrolysis efficiency increased with increasing CMC concentration from 5 to 50g/l. With a CMC concentration of 10g/l, the total reducing sugar (RS) production and the RS producing rate reached 5531.0mg/l and 92.9mg/l/h, respectively. Furthermore, seven H2-producing bacterial isolates (mainly Clostridium species) were used to convert the cellulose hydrolysate into H2 energy. With an initial RS concentration of 0.8g/l, the H2 production and yield was approximately 23.8ml/l and 1.21mmol H2/g RS (0.097mmol H2/g cellulose), respectively.
18418464	Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) caused by H5N1 viruses has become a global scale problem which first emerged in southern China and from there spread to other countries in Southeast and East Asia, where it was first confirmed in end 2003. In previous work, geospatial analyses demonstrated that free grazing ducks played critical role in the epidemiology of the disease in Thailand in the winter 2004/2005, both in terms of HPAI emergence and spread. This study explored the geographic association between free grazing duck census counts and current statistics on the spatial distribution of rice crops in Thailand, in particular the crop calendar of rice production. The analysis was carried out using both district level rice statistics and rice distribution data predicted with the aid of remote sensing, using a rice-detection algorithm. The results indicated a strong association between the number of free grazing ducks and the number of months during which second-crop rice harvest takes place, as well as with the rice crop intensity as predicted by remote sensing. These results confirmed that free grazing duck husbandry was strongly driven by agricultural land use and rice crop intensity, and that this later variable can be readily predicted using remote sensing. Analysis of rice cropping patterns may provide an indication of the location of populations of free grazing ducks in other countries with similar mixed duck and rice production systems and less detailed duck census data. Apart from free ranging ducks and rice cropping, the role of hydrology and seasonality of wetlands and water bodies in the HPAI risk analysis is also discussed in relation to the presumed dry season aggregation of wild waterfowl and aquatic poultry offering much scope for virus transmission.
18419077	With rice cultivars Yangdao 6, Yangjing 9538 and Wuxiangjing 14 as test materials, field experiment was conducted to study the effects of 3 irrigated water depths (0 cm, 2-4 cm, and > 10 cm) on the temperature of different parts of rice plant at spiking stage. The results showed that from 10:30 to 15:00 on sunny days, irrigated water depth on paddy field had significant effects on the temperature of field surface, middle part of rice plant, and rice spike. The higher the water depth on field surface, the lower the temperature of rice plant and rice spike. At the water level > 10 cm, the average temperature differences between air and the rice spike, middle part of rice plant and field surface of these three cultivars were 1.37, 2.98 and 4.12 degrees C higher than those at the water depth of 0 cm, and 0.67, 1.59 and 2.17 degrees C higher than those at the water depth of 2-4 cm, respectively. In addition, the temperature differences were 0.71, 1.39 and 1.95 degrees C higher at the water depth of 2-4 cm than those at the water depth of 0 cm, respectively. Obvious temperature differences of air-rice plant were also observed among the three rice varieties under different irrigated water depths. The analysis of the characteristics of temperature transfer among field surface, middle part of plant and rice spike indicated that the temperature transfer patterns under all test water management regimes accorded with the principles of energy transfer, suggesting that keeping proper water depth on the field surface at rice spiking stage contributed great to the decrease of rice spike temperature and the alleviation of rice heat injury.
18419098	By using the principles and methods of niche, this paper studied the mineral nutrition niche of rice sheath blight fungus. The results showed that the mineral nutrition niche breadth of the fungus at rice tillering, booting, heading, and waxing stages was 0.2710, 0.3865, 0.4252 and 0.4817, respectively, i.e., increased with rice growth, but still comparatively narrower, indicating that rice sheath blight fungus only utilized smaller parts of mineral nutrients at various growth stages of rice. The fungus always gave priority to occupy the nutrition niches where Mg, Zn and Si contents were lower, suggesting that Mg, Zn and Si contents had close relations to the resistance of rice against rice sheath blight.
18419293	The DIURNAL project (http://diurnal.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/) provides a graphical interface for mining and viewing diurnal and circadian microarray data for Arabidopsis thaliana, poplar, and rice. The database is searchable and provides access to several user-friendly Web-based data-mining tools with easy-to-understand output. The associated tools include HAYSTACK (http://haystack.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/) and ELEMENT (http://element.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/). HAYSTACK is a model-based pattern-matching algorithm for identifying genes that are coexpressed and potentially coregulated. HAYSTACK can be used to analyze virtually any large-scale microarray data set and provides an alternative method for clustering microarray data from any experimental system by grouping together genes whose expression patterns match the same or similar user-defined patterns. ELEMENT is a Web-based program for identifying potential cis-regulatory elements in the promoters of coregulated genes in Arabidopsis, poplar, and rice. Together, DIURNAL, HAYSTACK, and ELEMENT can be used to facilitate cross-species comparisons among the plant species supported and to accelerate functional genomics efforts in the laboratory.
18419739	Elongation of seminal and lateral roots of rice seedlings was markedly inhibited by high ammonium levels in growth medium. However, high exogenous nitrate concentrations had little inhibitory effect on root growth. The objective of this study was to elucidate the relationship between inhibition of rice root growth induced by high ammonium conditions and ammonium assimilation in the seedlings. Activity of glutamine synthetase (GS) was kept at a low level in the seminal roots of the seedlings grown under high nitrate levels. In contrast, high ammonium levels significantly enhanced the GS activity in the roots, so that Gln abundantly accumulated in the shoots. These results indicate that ammonium assimilation may be activated in the seminal roots under high ammonium conditions. Application of methionine sulfoximine (MSO), an inhibitor of GS, relieved the repression of the seminal root elongation induced by high ammonium concentrations. However, the elongation of lateral roots remained inhibited even under the same condition. Furthermore, MSO drastically increased ammonium level and remarkably decreased Gln level in the shoots grown under high ammonium conditions. These results show that, for rice seedlings, an assimilatory product of ammonium, and not ammonium itself, may serve as an endogenous indicator of the nitrogen status involved in the inhibition of seminal root elongation induced by high levels of exogenous ammonium.
18420592	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (nsHbs) are widespread in plants including bryophytes. Bryophytes (such as mosses) are among the oldest land plants, thus an analysis of a bryophyte nsHb is of interest from an evolutionary perspective. However, very little is known about bryophyte nsHbs. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of an nshb gene (cerhb) from the moss Ceratodon purpureus. Sequence analysis showed that cerhb is interrupted by 3 introns in identical position as all known plant nshb genes, which suggests that the ancestral nshb gene was interrupted by 3 introns. Expression analysis showed that cerhb expresses in protonemas and gametophytes growing in normal conditions and that it overexpresses in protonemas subjected to osmotic (sucrose), heat-shock, cold-, and nitrate-stress conditions. Also, modeling of the Ceratodon nsHb (CerHb) tertiary structure suggests that CerHb is hexacoordinate and that it binds O(2) with high affinity. Comparative analysis of the predicted CerHb with native rice Hb1 and soybean leghemoglobin a structures revealed that the major evolutionary changes that probably occurred during the evolution of plant Hbs were 1) a hexacoordinate to pentacoordinate transition at the heme prosthetic group, 2) a length decrease at the CD-loop and N- and C-termini regions, and 3) the compaction of the protein into a globular structure.
18420595	We examined the function of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) antiporter-regulating protein OsARP by overexpressing it in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). In public databases, this protein was annotated as a putative Os02g0465900 protein of rice. The OsARP gene was introduced into tobacco under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The transformants were selected for their ability to grow on medium containing kanamycin. Incorporation of the transgene in the genome of tobacco was confirmed by PCR, and its expression was confirmed by Western blot analysis. Transgenic plants had better growth and vigor than non-transgenic plants under salt stress in vitro. Overexpression of OsARP in transgenic tobacco plants resulted in salt tolerance, and the plants had a higher rate of photosynthesis and effective PSII photon yield when compared with the wild type. The OsARP protein was localized in the tonoplast of rice plants. Transgenic plants accumulated more Na+ in their leaf tissue than did wild-type plants. It is conceivable that the toxic effect of Na+ in the cytosol might be reduced by sequestration into vacuoles. The rate of water loss was higher in the wild type than in transgenic plants under salt stress. Increased vacuolar solute accumulation and water retention could confer salt tolerance in transgenic plants. Tonoplast vesicles isolated from OsARP transgenic plants showed Na+/H+ exchange rates 3-fold higher than those of wild-type plants. These results suggest that OsARP on the tonoplasts plays an important role in compartmentation of Na+ into vacuoles. We suggest that OsARP is a new type of protein participating in Na+ uptake in vacuoles.
18421414	Virulent variants of Rice yellow mottle virus (genus Sobemovirus) can emerge on the highly resistant rice cultivars Gigante and Bekarosaka. Non-synonymous mutations responsible for the breakdown of the recessive resistance gene rymv1-2 were located in the VPg after determination of its termini in the polyprotein P2a. The secondary structure of this protein was predicted to include a central alpha-helix. The two major amino acids related to virulence are located on the same side of this helix. The 3D topology and the biochemical properties of virulence mutations both suggested a direct site-to-site interaction between RYMV VPg and rice eIF(iso)4G encoded by rymv1.
18421600	A comparative study was carried out to evaluate protease production in solid-state fermentation (SSF) and submerged fermentation (SmF) by nine different thermophilic fungi--Thermoascus aurantiacus Miehe, Thermomyces lanuginosus, T. lanuginosus TO.03, Aspergillus flavus 1.2, Aspergillus sp. 13.33, Aspergillus sp. 13.34, Aspergillus sp. 13.35, Rhizomucor pusillus 13.36 and Rhizomucor sp. 13.37--using substrates containing proteins to induce enzyme secretion. Soybean extract (soybean milk), soybean flour, milk powder, rice, and wheat bran were tested. The most satisfactory results were obtained when using wheat bran in SSF. The fungi that stood out in SSF were T. lanuginosus, T. lanuginosus TO.03, Aspergillus sp. 13.34, Aspergillus sp. 13.35, and Rhizomucor sp. 13.37, and those in SmF were T. aurantiacus, T. lanuginosus TO.03, and 13.37. In both fermentation systems, A. flavus 1.2 and R. pusillus 13.36 presented the lowest levels of proteolytic activity.
18422124	The traditional method to study the storage substance mobilization of seeds during the process of germination is chemical extraction, which is troublesome and time consuming. In the present paper, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy was used to study the storage substance mobilization of legume and cereal seeds in germination. The spectral results show that legume seeds (soybean, pea and broad bean) exhibit similar remarkable changes in the region from 1 000 to 1 200 cm(-1) in germination, which suggest that the storage carbohydrates in endosperm of legume seeds are mobilized during the process of germination. Notable changes were observed on amide bands of protein and lipid band in the spectra of germinating cereal seeds (rice, wheat and barley), indicating that storage proteins and lipids in cotyledon were utilized during the process of cereal seed germination. The results suggest that vibrational spectroscopy has the advantages of rapidress and convenience in the study of crop seeds and seed physiology.
18422652	Protein disulfide isomerase family proteins play important roles in the folding of nascent polypeptides and the formation of disulfide bonds in the endoplasmic reticulum. In this study, we cloned two similar protein disulfide isomerase family genes from soybean leaf (Glycine max L. Merrill. cv Jack). The cDNAs encode proteins of 525 and 551 amino acids, named GmPDIL-1 and GmPDIL-2, respectively. Recombinant versions of GmPDIL-1 and GmPDIL-2 expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited oxidative refolding activity for denatured RNaseA. Genomic sequences of both GmPDIL-1 and GmPDIL-2 were cloned and sequenced. The comparison of soybean genomic sequences with those of Arabidopsis, rice and wheat showed impressive conservation of exon-intron structure across plant species. The promoter sequences of GmPDIL-1 apparently contain a cis-acting regulatory element functionally linked to unfolded protein response. GmPDIL-1, but not GmPDIL-2, expression was induced under endoplasmic reticulum-stress conditions. GmPDIL-1 and GmPDIL-2 promoters contain some predicted regulatory motifs for seed-specific expression. Both proteins were ubiquitously expressed in soybean tissues, including cotyledon, and localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. Data from coimmunoprecipitation experiments suggested that GmPDIL-1 and GmPDIL-2 associate with proglycinin, a precursor of the seed storage protein glycinin, and the alpha'-subunit of beta-conglycinin, a seed storage protein found in cotyledon cells under conditions that disrupt the folding of glycinin or beta-conglycinin, suggesting that GmPDIL-1 and GmPDIL-2 are involved in the proper folding or quality control of such storage proteins as molecular chaperones.
18422887	Two putative endosperm-specific rice genes, OsPR602 and OsPR9a, were identified from database searches. The promoter regions of these genes were isolated, and transcriptional promoter:beta-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion constructs were stably transformed into rice and barley. The GUS expression patterns revealed that these promoters were active in early grain development in both rice and barley, and showed strongest expression in endosperm transfer cells during the early stages of grain filling. The GUS expression was similar in both rice and barley, but, in barley, expression was exclusively in the endosperm transfer cells and differed in timing of activation relative to rice. In rice, both promoters showed activity not only in the endosperm transfer cells, but also in the transfer cells of maternal tissue and in several floral tissues shortly before pollination. The expression patterns of OsPR602 and OsPR9a in flowers differed. The similarity of expression in both rice and barley suggests that these promoters may be useful to control transgene expression in the transfer cells of cereal grains with the aim of altering nutrient uptake or enhancing the barrier against pathogens at the boundary between maternal tissue and the developing endosperm. However, the expression during floral development should be considered if the promoters are used in rice.
18425430	Human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (hGM-CSF) is used clinically to treat leucopenia typically caused by cancer chemotherapy or radiotherapy. This study used multiple strategies to obtain very high expression levels of OsrhGM-CSF (14 microg/seed) in rice endosperm. Electron micrographs of immunogold-labeled transgenic endosperm showed that rhGM-CSF was not only localized in protein bodies but was also distributed in the apoplast. A biological activity assay indicated that OsrhGM-CSF stimulated the growth of TF-1 cells in vitro. In addition, the transgene was used to effectively treat leucopenia by oral administration of the unprocessed transgenic grains. In cyclophosphamide-induced leucopenic mice, transgenic seeds produced a 27% (t=0.021) gain in leukocytes after 14 days feeding. Even in non-leucopenic mice, leukocyte gain was 37% (t=0.002) more than that of mice fed non-transgenic seeds. This study provides a novel approach to the use of oral unprocessed transgenic OsrhGM-CSF seeds to treat leucopenia.
18425633	A doubled haploid (DH) population derived from anther culture of F(1)'s between an Indica var. Zhai-Ye-Qing 8 and a Japonica var. Jing-Xi17 as well as two backcross populations derived from this DH population were used to investigate inheritance of the embryo sac abortion at early megagametogenesis occurring in Indica/Japonica rice crosses. Two major loci, dominant and complementaryesa-1 andesa-2, located on chromosomes 6 and 12 respectively, were detected. Genetic analysis indicated that embryo sac fertility is mainly regulated by the gametophytic genotype at these two loci.
18425636	The genetic basis of heterosis in rice was studied in a cross between Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63, the parents of the best hybrid widely used in rice production in China. Field data for yield and yield components traits were collected over two years from 240 F(2:3) families of this cross planted in replicated field trials. These families were assayed with 151 marker loci that were polymorphic between the parents and a linkage map was constructed with Mapmaker analysis. A total of 32 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were identified for yield and the three component traits: 12 QTLs were detected in both years and the remaining 20 QTLs were observed in only one year. A search for the entire genome by using two-way analyses of variance with all possible two-locus combinations detected a very large number of significant digenic interactions involving both the QTLs resolved by single-locus analysis and loci that did not show significant effects by single-locus analysis. Many of the interactions were simultaneously detected in both years. Partitioning of the epistatic interactions recovered all three types of interactions, i. e. additive by additive, additive by dominance and dominance by dominance, for all the traits. Some of the epistatic interactions even showed pleiotropic effects by simultaneously affecting two or more traits. The results clearly indicate that epistasis plays a significant role in the inheritance of yield traits as well as in the genetic basis of heterosis.
18426477	Halophytes survive high salinity by using complex adaptive mechanisms. In a search for novel molecular mechanisms involved in salt acclimation, transcript analyses revealed increased expression of a SUI-homologous translation initiation factor eIF-1 in the salt-tolerant grass species Festuca rubra ssp. littoralis but not in rice. Upon analysis of the cell specificity of eIF-1 transcription by in situ polymerase chain reaction (PCR), predominant signals were detected in rice leaf mesophyll. To further examine the role of eIF-1 in salt tolerance, transgenic rice plants were generated that over-express this factor under the control of the CaMV-35S promoter. The eIF-1 over-expressing lines showed improved growth under salt stress that was correlated with maintenance of photosynthetic activity and reduced Na(+) and Cl(-) accumulation in leaves. The transgenic rice lines also activated expression of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase. In addition, an oxidoreductase that belongs to the aldo/keto reductase family was identified as a gene with modified expression in the eIF-1 over-expressing lines, compared with wild-type rice. Our data suggest that eIF-1 has a central function in salt-stress adaptation in rice by regulating ion accumulation and the intracellular redox status.
18426483	Plant morphogenesis is an intimate cooperation between environmental signals and a genetically-encoded developmental programme. Although all stages subsequent to floral induction may be influenced by daylength, the information available has come from diverse species during different morphogenetic events. This makes it difficult to investigate how photoperiodic signalling is integrated into various steps of the developmental programme. Here, we report that, in late japonica rice lines, morphogenetic events, including 12th leaf, axis of the main panicle, awn of the glum, anthers, elongation rate of internodes, and pollen fertility of the photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterile (PGMS) rice, are significantly affected by daylength after panicle initiation. These data indicate that daylength affects many morphologic events, and that changes in morphology are mainly determined by the characteristics of the events themselves. These findings lay a foundation for future investigations into how potentially common photoperiodic signalling system(s) are integrated with diversified developmental events. In addition, we discussed the essential nature of PGMS rice.
18426584	Gene ortholog identification is now a major objective for mining the increasing amount of sequence data generated by complete or partial genome sequencing projects. Comparative and functional genomics urgently need a method for ortholog detection to reduce gene function inference and to aid in the identification of conserved or divergent genetic pathways between several species. As gene functions change during evolution, reconstructing the evolutionary history of genes should be a more accurate way to differentiate orthologs from paralogs. Phylogenomics takes into account phylogenetic information from high-throughput genome annotation and is the most straightforward way to infer orthologs. However, procedures for automatic detection of orthologs are still scarce and suffer from several limitations. We developed a procedure for ortholog prediction between Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana. Firstly, we established an efficient method to cluster A. thaliana and O. sativa full proteomes into gene families. Then, we developed an optimized phylogenomics pipeline for ortholog inference. We validated the full procedure using test sets of orthologs and paralogs to demonstrate that our method outperforms pairwise methods for ortholog predictions. Our procedure achieved a high level of accuracy in predicting ortholog and paralog relationships. Phylogenomic predictions for all validated gene families in both species were easily achieved and we can conclude that our methodology outperforms similarly based methods.
18426631	The present study examined whether ethanol exposure influences lactation parameters. Specifically, selected constituents in maternal blood and milk and the lactation performance of Chinese lactating mothers were evaluated after they had consumed chicken soup flavoured with sesame oil and rice wine (CSSR), a diet traditionally prescribed during the postpartum 'doing-the-month' ritual. Twenty-three lactating mothers were examined. Informed consent was obtained from each subject. Each subject was tested on two occasions separated by a week. The target alcohol dosage was 0.3 g/kg body weight. Milk and blood samples were collected prior to consumption of soup and at 120 and 150 min, respectively, after consumption. Levels of various constituents were measured. The time for ejection of the first milk droplet and total milk volume yielded were also measured. Consumption of CSSR influenced TAG, insulin and lactate levels in maternal blood. Likewise, consumption of the soup affected milk composition and its nutritional status, particularly total protein, TAG, fatty acid, beta-hydroxybutyrate and lactate levels. CSSR intake significantly affected TAG and lactate levels in milk. The time for the first milk droplet to be ejected was significantly longer in the CSSR group, indicating that the milk-ejecting reflex is inhibited. However, blood prolactin level increased slightly after ethanol intake. Milk yields were reduced after ingestion of CSSR although the difference was not statistically significant. Consumption of CSSR affects not only the composition of maternal blood and milk, but also lactation performance. These findings suggest that an alcoholic diet should be avoided during lactation.
18427710	Nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions from a rice-duck cultivation system in the subtropical region of China and its regulating factors were investigated by using a static chambers technique during rice growth seasons in 2006 and 2007. The experimental field was equally divided into six plots for two different treatments: One was a conventional rice field (CK) and the other was a rice-duck ecosystem (RD). With the same amount of urea applied as basal fertilization, N2O emission fluxes from RD and CK followed a similar seasonal variation trend. During the flooding seasons, the N2O emission flux was not correlated with temperature, but it was significantly related to soil inorganic nitrogen (SIN) (p < 0.01) and soil pH (p < 0.01). After drainage, the N2O emission flux was not correlated with temperature, SIN, and soil pH. Our experimental data showed that peaks of N2O emission flux occurred both in 2 weeks after urea application and after drainage. Compared to CK, RD could significantly increase N2O emission. We evaluated the integrated global warming potentials (GWPs) of a rice-duck cultivation system based on methane (CH4) and N2O emission, which showed that RD could suppress the total amount of CH4 and N2O emissions from rice paddies. Moreover, because the decrease of CH4 emissions from RD compared to CK was far more than the increase of N2O emissions from RD compared to CK, RD greatly reduced integrated GWPs (CH4 + N2O) compared to CK. So, the rice-duck cultivation system is an effective strategy for reducing integrated GWPs of the rice-duck cultivation systems based on CH4 and N2O in southern China and will contribute to alleviating global warming.
18427901	Sesbania virgata (Cav.) Pers (wand riverhemp) is a fast-growing tropical legume species that has been used for revegetation of riparian forests and rehabilitation of degraded areas and that exhibits an invasive behavior in certain regions of Brazil. Preliminary studies have shown that seed leachates inhibit the germination and development of seedlings of some crop species. In this study, we report that the seed leachates of S. virgata inhibit the growth of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. The flavonoid (+)-catechin is found in high amounts in these leachates. It was active at concentrations of 50 microg ml(-1), and its effect was not distinguishable from the (+)-catechin obtained from a commercial source. We found that (+)-catechin is located in the seed coat and is rapidly released in high concentrations (235 microg per seed) at the beginning of imbibition. Quercetin was also detected in the seed coat of S. virgata, but it was not released from the seeds. Other phytotoxic compounds in the seed leachates were also detected. The fact that S. virgata releases high amounts of (+)-catechin, which also has antimicrobial activity, and other phytotoxins from its seeds at the earliest stages of its development might represent some adaptative advantage to the seedling that contributes to its invasive behavior and successful establishment in different soils.
18430011	The diversity (richness and community composition) of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) in paddy soil with different nitrogen (N) fertilizer amendments for 5 weeks were investigated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) jand clone library analysis based on the ammonia monooxygenase alpha-subunit (amoA) gene. Ammonia-oxidizing archaea predominated among ammonia-oxidizing prokaryotes in the paddy soil, and the AOA:AOB DNA-targeted amoA gene ratios ranged from 1.2 to 69.3. Ammonia-oxidizing archaea were more abundant in the rhizosphere than in bulk soil. Rice cultivation led to greater abundance of AOA than AOB amoA gene copies and to differences in AOA and AOB community composition. These results show that AOA is dominant in the rhizosphere paddy soil in this study, and we assume that AOA were influenced more by exudation from rice root (e.g. oxygen, carbon dioxide) than AOB.
18430022	Homeobox genes play a critical role in regulating various aspects of plant growth and development. In the present study, we identified a total of 107 homeobox genes in the rice genome and grouped them into ten distinct subfamilies based upon their domain composition and phylogenetic analysis. A significantly large number of homeobox genes are located in the duplicated segments of the rice genome, which suggests that the expansion of homeobox gene family, in large part, might have occurred due to segmental duplications in rice. Furthermore, microarray analysis was performed to elucidate the expression profiles of these genes in different tissues and during various stages of vegetative and reproductive development. Several genes with predominant expression during various stages of panicle and seed development were identified. At least 37 homeobox genes were found to be differentially expressed significantly (more than two-fold; P < 0.05) under various abiotic stress conditions. The results of the study suggest a critical role of homeobox genes in reproductive development and abiotic stress signaling in rice, and will facilitate the selection of candidate genes of agronomic importance for functional validation.
18430024	DNA polymerase gamma, a mitochondrial replication enzyme of yeasts and animals, is not present in photosynthetic eukaryotes. Recently, DNA polymerases with distant homology to bacterial DNA polymerase I were reported in rice, Arabidopsis, and tobacco, and they were localized to both plastids and mitochondria. We call them plant organellar DNA polymerases (POPs). However, POPs have never been purified in the native form from plant tissues. The unicellular thermotrophic red alga Cyanidioschyzon merolae contains two genes encoding proteins related to Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I (PolA and PolB). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that PolB is an ortholog of POPs. Nonphotosynthetic eukaryotes also have POPs, which suggested that POPs have an ancient origin before eukaryotic photosynthesis. PolA is a homolog of bacterial DNA polymerase I and is distinct from POPs. PolB was purified from the C. merolae cells by a series of column chromatography steps. Recombinant protein of PolA was also purified. Sensitivity to inhibitors of DNA synthesis was different in PolA, PolB, and E. coli DNA polymerase I. Immunoblot analysis and targeting studies with green fluorescent protein fusion proteins demonstrated that PolA was localized in the plastids, whereas PolB was present in both plastids and mitochondria. The expression of PolB was regulated by the cell cycle. The available results suggest that PolB is involved in the replication of plastids and mitochondria.
18430767	A rice Wx gene encoding a granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) was introduced into the null-mutant waxy (wx) rice, and its effect on endosperm starches was examined. The apparent amylose content was increased from undetectable amounts for the non-transgenic wx cultivars to 21.6-22.2% of starch weight for the transgenic lines. The increase was in part due to a significant amount of extra-long unit chains (ELCs) of amylopectin (7.5-8.4% of amylopectin weight), that were absent in the non-transgenic wx cultivars. Thus, actual amylose content was calculated to be 14.9-16.0% for the transgenic lines. Only slight differences were found in chain-length distribution for the chains other than ELCs, indicating that the major effect of the Wx transgene on amylopectin structure was ELC formation. ELCs isolated from debranched amylopectin exhibited structures distinct from amylose. Structures of amylose from the transgenic lines were slightly different from those of cv. Labelle (Wx(a)) in terms of a higher degree of branching and size distribution. The amylose and ELC content of starches of the transgenic lines resulted in the elevation of pasting temperature, a 50% decrease in peak viscosity, a large decrease in breakdown and an increase in setback. As yet undetermined factors other than the GBSSI activity are thought to be involved in the control of formation and/or the amount of ELCs. Structural analysis of the Wx gene suggested that the presence of a tyrosine residue at position 224 of GBSSI correlates with the formation of large amounts of ELCs in cultivars carrying Wx(a).
18431481	Characterization of the chloroplast proteome is needed to understand the essential contribution of the chloroplast to plant growth and development. Here we present a large scale analysis by nanoLC-Q-TOF and nanoLC-LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometry (MS) of ten independent chloroplast preparations from Arabidopsis thaliana which unambiguously identified 1325 proteins. Novel proteins include various kinases and putative nucleotide binding proteins. Based on repeated and independent MS based protein identifications requiring multiple matched peptide sequences, as well as literature, 916 nuclear-encoded proteins were assigned with high confidence to the plastid, of which 86% had a predicted chloroplast transit peptide (cTP). The protein abundance of soluble stromal proteins was calculated from normalized spectral counts from LTQ-Obitrap analysis and was found to cover four orders of magnitude. Comparison to gel-based quantification demonstrates that 'spectral counting' can provide large scale protein quantification for Arabidopsis. This quantitative information was used to determine possible biases for protein targeting prediction by TargetP and also to understand the significance of protein contaminants. The abundance data for 550 stromal proteins was used to understand abundance of metabolic pathways and chloroplast processes. We highlight the abundance of 48 stromal proteins involved in post-translational proteome homeostasis (including aminopeptidases, proteases, deformylases, chaperones, protein sorting components) and discuss the biological implications. N-terminal modifications were identified for a subset of nuclear- and chloroplast-encoded proteins and a novel N-terminal acetylation motif was discovered. Analysis of cTPs and their cleavage sites of Arabidopsis chloroplast proteins, as well as their predicted rice homologues, identified new species-dependent features, which will facilitate improved subcellular localization prediction. No evidence was found for suggested targeting via the secretory system. This study provides the most comprehensive chloroplast proteome analysis to date and an expanded Plant Proteome Database (PPDB) in which all MS data are projected on identified gene models.
18432152
18433134	Rice shochu distilled residue (RSDR) is a byproduct of rice shochu production. RSDR was converted into vinegar by acetate fermentation. In our present study, two major antioxidant compounds, tyrosol and ferulic acid, were identified from the RSDR-derived vinegar. Furthermore, we investigated the antioxidant activity of freeze-dried RSDR-derived vinegar, which was Acetobactor aceti fermentation powder (AFP), in vitro and in vivo. AFP at 0.25 mg/mL or higher concentrations showed an inhibitory effect against lipid peroxidation and cellular GSH depletion in HepG2 cells induced by H(2)O(2) (P < 0.05). We thus considered the potential of AFP in protecting cells against damage induced by H(2)O(2). Its antioxidant activity was evaluated in vivo using carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced acute liver injury mouse models. Five consecutive days of oral preadministration of AFP dissolved in PBS at 200, 400, and 800 mg/kg body weight significantly suppressed lipid peroxidation in the liver induced by CCl(4) (P < 0.01). Consequently, treatment with AFP at 200 mg/kg body weight or higher doses suppressed the elevation of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels in serum (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that RSDR-derived vinegar can be developed as a health food with an antioxidant effect for the prevention of oxidative injury and cancer.
18433415	ABA-responsive element binding protein (AREB) and ABA-responsive element binding factor (ABF), members of the basic region/leucine zipper (bZIP)-type protein family, act as major transcription factors in ABA-responsive gene expression under abiotic stress conditions in Arabidopsis. Barley HvABI5 and rice transcription factor responsible for ABA regulation 1 (TRAB1) are homologues of AREB/ABF and are expressed in drought- and ABA-treated seedlings. However, no direct evidence has shown an association of an AREB/ABF-type transcription factor with stress tolerance in cereals. To understand the molecular basis of abiotic stress tolerance through a cereal AREB/ABF-type transcription factor, a wheat HvABI5 ortholog, Wabi5, was isolated and characterized. Wabi5 expression was activated by low temperature, drought and exogenous ABA treatment, and its expression pattern differed between two wheat accessions with distinct levels of stress tolerance and ABA sensitivity. Wabi5-expressing transgenic tobacco plants showed a significant increase in tolerance to abiotic stresses such as freezing, osmotic and salt stresses and a hypersensitivity to exogenous ABA in the seedling stage compared with wild-type plants. Expression of a GUS reporter gene under the control of promoters of three wheat cold-responsive/late embryogenesis abundant (Cor/Lea) genes, Wdhn13, Wrab18 and Wrab19, was enhanced by ectopic Wabi5 expression in wheat callus and tobacco plants. These results clearly indicated that WABI5 functions as a transcriptional regulator of the Cor/Lea genes in multiple abiotic stress responses in common wheat.
18433432	The avirulence gene ACE1 from the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea encodes a polyketide synthase (PKS) fused to a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) probably involved in the biosynthesis of a secondary metabolite recognized by Pi33 resistant rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars. Analysis of the M. grisea genome revealed that ACE1 is located in a cluster of 15 genes, of which 14 are potentially involved in secondary metabolism as they encode enzymes such as a second PKS-NRPS (SYN2), two enoyl reductases (RAP1 and RAP2) and a putative Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) transcription factor (BC2). These 15 genes are specifically expressed during penetration into the host plant, defining an infection-specific gene cluster. A pORF3-GFP transcriptional fusion showed that the highly expressed ORF3 gene from the ACE1 cluster is only expressed in appressoria, as is ACE1. Phenotypic analysis of deletion or disruption mutants of SYN2 and RAP2 showed that they are not required for avirulence in Pi33 rice cultivars, unlike ACE1. Inactivation of other genes was unsuccessful because targeted gene replacement and disruption were inefficient at this locus. Overall, the ACE1 gene cluster displays an infection-specific expression pattern restricted to the penetration stage which is probably controlled at the transcriptional level and reflects regulatory networks specific to early stages of infection.
18433437	A precise regulation of flowering time is central to plant species survival. Therefore, mechanisms have evolved in plants to integrate various environmental cues to optimize flowering time. In this study, we show that the product of the wheat gene TaFT, which integrates photoperiod and vernalization signals promoting flowering, interacts with bZIP proteins TaFDL2 and TaFDL6. We also show that TaFDL2 can interact in vitro with five ACGT elements in the promoter of the meristem identity gene VRN1, suggesting that TaFDL2 is a functional homologue of Arabidopsis FD. No direct interactions between the TaFT protein and the VRN1 promoter were detected. Transgenic wheat plants over-expressing TaFT showed parallel increases in VRN1 transcripts, suggesting that TaFT provides transcriptional activation of VRN1, possibly through interactions with the TaFDL2 protein. The same transgenic plants also showed increased transcript levels of TaFT2 (a TaFT paralogue), indicating that TaFT2 acts downstream of TaFT. The fact that TaFT2 interacts with another bZIP protein TaFDL13, which lacks the ability to interact with the VRN1 promoter, suggests that TaFT and TaFT2 have different gene targets. This observation agrees with the functional divergence observed for the TaFT and TaFT2 orthologous genes in rice. The temperate cereals analyzed so far show VRN1 transcripts in the leaves, a characteristic not observed in Arabidopsis or rice. The high levels of TaFDL2 transcripts observed in wheat leaves provide a simple explanation for this difference. We present a hypothesis to explain the conservation of VRN1 expression in the leaves of temperate cereals.
18433439	Rice plants fed on by fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda, FAW) caterpillars emit a blend of volatiles dominated by terpenoids. These volatiles were highly attractive to females of the parasitoid Cotesia marginiventris. Microarray analysis identified 196 rice genes whose expression was significantly upregulated by FAW feeding, 18 of which encode metabolic enzymes potentially involved in volatile biosynthesis. Significant induction of expression of seven of the 11 terpene synthase (TPS) genes identified through the microarray experiments was confirmd using real-time RT-PCR. Enzymes encoded by three TPS genes, Os02g02930, Os08g07100 and Os08g04500, were biochemically characterized. Os02g02930 was found to encode a monoterpene synthase producing the single product S-linalool, which is the most abundant volatile emitted from FAW-damaged rice plants. Both Os08g07100 and Os08g04500 were found to encode sesquiterpene synthases, each producing multiple products. These three enzymes are responsible for production of the majority of the terpenes released from FAW-damaged rice plants. In addition to TPS genes, several key genes in the upstream terpenoid pathways were also found to be upregulated by FAW feeding. This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of FAW-induced volatiles and the corresponding volatile biosynthetic genes potentially involved in indirect defense in rice. Evolution of the genetic basis governing volatile terpenoid biosynthesis for indirect defense is discussed.
18433905	In Manipur state of North-Eastern India, wine from glutinous rice using traditional solid state starter called 'Hamei' is particularly interesting because of its unique flavour. A total of 163 yeast isolates were obtained from fifty four 'Hamei' samples collected from household rice wine preparations in tribal villages of Manipur. Molecular identification of yeast species was carried out by analysis of the restriction digestion pattern generated from PCR amplified internal transcribed spacer region along with 5.8S rRNA gene (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2). Seventeen different restriction profiles were obtained from the size of PCR products and the restriction analysis with three endonucleases (Hae III, Cfo I and Hinf I). Nine groups were identified as S. cerevisiae, Pichia anomala, Trichosporon sp., Candida tropicalis, Pichia guilliermondi, Candida parapsilosis, Torulaspora delbrueckii, Pichia fabianii and Candida montana by comparing this ITS-RFLP profile with type strains of common wine yeasts, published data and insilico analysis of ITS sequence data available in CBS yeast database. ITS-RFLP profile of eight groups was not matching with available database of 288 common wine yeast species. The most frequent yeast species associated with 'Hamei' were S. cerevisiae (32.5%), P. anomala (41.7%) and Trichosporon sp. (8%). The identity of major groups was confirmed by additional restriction digestion of ITS region with Hind III, EcoRI, Dde I and Msp I. The genetic diversity of industrially important S. cerevisiae group was investigated using Pulsed Field Gel Electrophoresis (PFGE). Although most of the 53 strains of S. cerevisiae examined were exhibited a common species specific pattern, a distinct degree of chromosomal length polymorphism and variable number of chromosomal DNA fragments were observed with in the species. Cluster analysis showed seven major karyotypes (K1-K7) with more than 83% similarity. The karyotype pattern K1 was the most frequent (67.9%) among the strains from different samples. Other karyotypes K2-K7 were very unique with less than 80% similarity. Finally using mitochondrial DNA restriction analysis (mt-DNA RFLP), S. cerevisiae strains belonging to the major karyotype K1 were distinctly differentiated with highly polymorphic bands by Hinf I and Hae III endonucleases.
18433929	Roots are highly sensitive organs in plants. To gain a better knowledge of the chilling stress responses of plants, it is imperative to analyze the tissue-specific proteome patterns under chilling stress. In the present study, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with mass spectrometry, has been adopted to investigate the protein expression patterns of rice roots in response to chilling stress. Rice seedlings were subjected to 10 degrees C and samples were collected 24 and 72h after treatment. To identify the low-abundant proteins in root tissues, samples were fractionated by 15% polyethylene glycol (PEG), separated by 2-DE, and visualized by silver or CBB staining. A total of 27 up-regulated proteins were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry or electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) analysis. Together with the previously identified cold-stress-responsive proteins, a group of novel proteins were identified including acetyl transferase, phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, NADP-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase, fructokinase, PrMC3, putative alpha-soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein, and glyoxalase 1. These proteins are involved in several cellular processes, including energy production and metabolism, vesicular trafficking, and detoxification. Gene expression at the mRNA level of some selected proteins revealed that transcription levels are not always concomitant to the translational level. Thus, investigation of root proteome expression and identification of some novel proteins could be useful in better understanding the molecular basis of chilling stress responses in plants.
18433969
18435538	Two novel metabolites with potential antifeedant activity were isolated from cultures of the fungus Trichoderma citrinoviride strain ITEM 4484 grown in solid-state fermentation on sterile rice kernels. The producing strain was identified at species level by sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer regions ITS-1 and ITS-2 of the nuclear rDNA and a fragment of the translation elongation factor gene TEF-1alpha. Fractionation by column chromatography and TLC of the culture organic extract, followed by feeding preference tests on the aphid pest Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), allowed the purification of 5.8 and 8.9 mg/kg of culture of two bioactive metabolites, which were named citrantifidiene and citrantifidiol (1 and 2). Citrantifidiene and citrantifidiol, whose structures were determined by spectroscopic methods (NMR and MS) are a symmetrical disubstituted hexa-1,3-dienyl ester of acetic acid and a tetrasubstituted cyclohexane-1,3-diol, respectively. The pure metabolites influenced the feeding preference of S. graminum restraining individuals from feeding on wheat leaves dipped in 5% aqueous methanol solution containing 0.57 mg/mL of citrantifidiene or 0.91 mg/mL of citrantifidiol.
18435825	In BT-type cytoplasmic male sterile rice (Oryza sativa L.) with Chinsurah Boro II cytoplasm, cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is caused by an accumulation of the cytotoxic peptide ORF79. The ORF79 protein is expressed from a dicistronic gene atp6-orf79, which exists in addition to the normal atp6 gene in the BT-type mitochondrial genome. The CMS is restored by a PPR (pentatricopeptide-repeat) gene, Rf1, via RNA processing. However, it has not yet been elucidated how the accumulation of ORF79 is reduced by the action of the Rf1 protein. Here, we report that the level of processed orf79 transcripts in the restorer line was reduced to 50% of the unprocessed atp6-orf79 transcripts in the CMS line. Ninety percent of the processed orf79 transcripts, which remained after degradation, were not associated with the ribosome for translation. Our data suggests that the processing of atp6-orf79 transcripts diminishes the expression of orf79 by the translational reduction and degradation of the processed orf79 transcripts.
18436769
18436781	The promise that came with genome sequencing was that we would soon know what genes do, particularly genes involved in human diseases and those of importance to agriculture. We now have the full genomic sequence of human, chimpanzee, mouse, chicken, dog, worm, fly, rice, and cress, as well as those for a wide variety of other species, and yet we still have a lot of trouble figuring out what genes do. Mapping genes to their function is called the "genotype-to-phenotype problem," where phenotype is whatever is changed in the organism when a gene's function is altered.
18437505	We generated transgenic rice plants (Oryza sativa cv. Dongjin) over-expressing human protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPO) with the aim to increase mitochondrial PPO activity and confer herbicide resistance (Lee et al., Pestic Biochem Physiol 80:65-74, 2004). The transgenic plants showed during further leaf development the formation of severe necrotic spots and growth retardation. Several experiments were performed to examine the reasons for the formation of necrotic leaf lesions. Human PPO is normally located in mitochondria. An in vitro organellar import experiment revealed translocation of human PPO into pea chloroplasts, but not into mitochondria. Using a specific antibody raised against human PPO confirmed its plastidic localisation. The heme and chlorophyll contents were lower in necrotic leaves than wild-type leaves. Interestingly, mature and necrotic leaves of 12-week-old transgenic plants contained up to 14- and 24-fold more protoporphyrin IX, respectively, than mature wild-type leaves. Enhanced levels of Mg-Protoporphyrin IX, Mg-Protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester and protochlorophyllide were concurrently observed in transgenic plants relative to wild type. Accumulated porphyrins and Mg-porphyrins likely act as photosensitizers and cause high formation of the reactive oxygen species. These high levels of tetrapyrrole intermediates correlated with increased rates of 5-aminolevulinic acid synthesis in transgenic plants. Tetrapyrrole-induced photooxidation was confirmed by increased lipid peroxidation and subsequent cell death. The transgenic phenotype is the consequence of a highly modified tetrapyrrole metabolism due to additional expression of human PPO. A possible regulatory role of PPO in graminaceous seedlings is discussed.
18437520	Based on the Cre/loxP system, we have developed a novel marker-free system mediating a direct auto-excision of loxP-flanked marker genes from T(1)transgenic rice without any treatment or further offspring crossing. To achieve this, the floral-specific promoter OsMADS45 was isolated from rice and the expression patterns of OsMADS45 promoter was characterised by using the pOs45:GUS transgenic plants. Furthermore, the binary vector with Cre recombinase under the control of OsMADS45 promoter was constructed and introduced into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and transgenic rice plants were generated. Southern blot analysis showed that auto-excision of the selective markers occurred in some T(1) progeny of the transgenic plants, suggesting that a high auto-excision frequency can be achieved with our Cre/loxP system. This auto-excision strategy provides an efficient way of removing the selectable marker gene from transgenic rice.
18437812	Distribution of mosquito larvae in inundated rice fields is poorly known despite its profound implications in implementation of vector control programs. Based on oviposition behavior of gravid females and biotic and abiotic conditions of the rice field, distribution of mosquito larvae within the paddy may vary greatly. As a guide to implementation of mosquito vector control program targeting the aquatic stages in the rice fields in Mwea, studies were conducted to determine the distribution of mosquito larvae within the paddy. Twenty-eight cages measuring 50 cm3 were distributed randomly within the paddy during the transplanting stage of the rice growth cycle, and were examined twice per week up to the flowering stage to determine mosquito oviposition pattern. A total of 17,218 mosquito larvae were collected at the periphery and a further 17,570 at the center of the paddy. These comprised 7,461 larvae from the genus Anopheles and 27,327 from genus Culex. The number of pupae collected at the periphery was 1,004 and 1.5 times greater than the number collected at the center. Significantly higher counts of Anopheles larvae were collected at the center (1.00 +/- 0.11) than at the periphery (0.55 +/- 0.05) of the paddy during transplanting stage, but the difference was not significant during the tillering stage. In contrast, significantly higher numbers of Culex larvae were collected from the periphery (3.09 +/- 0.39) than at the center (2.81 +/- 0.24) of the paddy. More pupae were also collected at the center than at the periphery of the paddy. These findings indicate the distribution of Anopheles and Culex larvae in rice fields to be nonrandom; however, for successful achievement of an integrated vector control program targeting the diverse mosquito fauna occurring in rice fields, there is need to target the whole paddy for larvicidal application.
18438436	We investigated the molecular characteristics and chromosomal organization of 5S rDNA in the genus Oryza, including diploid and tetraploid species. A phylogenetic tree of Oryza species was constructed based on the non-transcribed spacer sequences of 5S rDNA, and some novel relationships were discovered. Specifically, comparative sequence analysis of 5S rDNA in several wild rice species showed unique characteristics inconsistent with the model of concerted evolution: (1) multiple distinct 5S rDNA types were detected within a species, leading to intraspecific divergence of 5S rDNA; (2) multiple identical 5S rDNA types were shared among species, resulting in interspecies clustering of 5S rDNA types; and (3) intraspecific nucleotide diversity was detected within a 5S rDNA class. Our results obtained by fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed that each rice species studied contained only one 5S rDNA locus with two hybridization sites, which were located on either chromosome 7 or chromosome 11. These results suggest that different 5S rDNA classes within the rice genome were arranged together and that one pair of 5S rDNA loci from a diploid progenitor of the tetraploid species might have been lost during evolution. Taken together, our data show that 5S rDNA in rice species is more informative at the gene level than at the chromosome level.
18438440	A spontaneously mutated male-sterile material was found among the offspring of the indica restorer line Jinhuiyihao. To understand the status and function of the related gene and clone the gene, a near-isogenic line (NIL) of the male sterility was bred, and characterization of the mutant and gene mapping were performed. The results indicated that there are obvious differences between the male-sterile NIL and the indica maintainer line II-32B. The anther size of the NIL is smaller than that of II-32B, and the anther color is white in the NIL but yellow in II-32B. No pollen from the matured anther in the NIL was observed to be stained using KI-I2 solution. In transverse sections of the sterile anther, at early microspore stage the cytoplasm of the tapetum concentrates but the tapetum itself does not degenerate after microspores are released from the tetrads; the tapetum then desquamates from the anther wall and enwraps microspores; subsequently, the surrounded microspores collapse completely at late microspore and early bicellular pollen stages. Inheritance analysis showed that the male sterility was controlled by a single recessive gene, ostd (t). This gene was mapped between the SSR markers RM7434 and RM275 on chromosome 6, and the physical distance from RM7434 to RM275 is about 389 kb.
18438637	The already available comprehensive genome sequence information of model crops along with the transcriptomic resource from other crops provides an excellent opportunity for comparative genome analysis. We studied the synteny between each of the four major sorghum staygreen quantitative trait loci (QTL) regions with that in the rice genome and attempted to increase marker density around the QTL with genic-microsatellites from the sorghum transcriptomic resource using the rice genome as template. For each of the sorghum QTL regions, the reported RFLP markers were compiled, used for sequence similarity searches against the rice genome which identified syntenous regions on rice chromosome 1 for Stg1 and Stg2 QTL, on chromosome 9 for Stg3 QTL, and on chromosome 11 for Stg4 QTL. Using the Gramene genome browsing tool, 869 non-redundant sorghum expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were selected and 50 genic-microsatellites (18, 12, 15, and 5, for Stg1, Stg2, Stg3, and Stg4 QTL, respectively) could be developed. We could experimentally establish synteny of the Stg1, Stg2, Stg3, and Stg4 QTL regions with that of the rice genome by mapping ten polymorphic genic-microsatellite markers (20%) to the positions of the staygreen QTL. The simple strategy demonstrated in the present study could readily be extrapolated to other cereals of the Poaceae family. The markers developed in this study provide a basis for the isolation of genes underling these QTL using an association study or map-based gene isolation approach, and create an additional option for MAS of the staygreen trait in sorghum.
18438657	Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), a risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), causes cell death by inflammation and oxidative stress. Red mold rice (RMR) fermented by Monascus species is regarded as cholesterol-lowering functional food in virtue of the metabolite monacolin K identified as lovastatin. In addition, RMR is also demonstrated to express antioxidation because of multiple antioxidants. Therefore, this study focuses on the synergism of RMR against Abeta neurotoxicity and compares the effect between lovastatin and RMR including monacolin K and other functional metabolites. In this study, RE 568, an ethanol extract of RMR produced by strain Monascus purpureus NTU 568, is used to protect PC12 cell against Abeta40 neurotoxicity. All tests contain the treatments with lovastatin or RE 568 including equal monacolin K levels in order to compare the effect and investigate whether other metabolites of RE 568 provide potent assistance against Abeta40 neurotoxicity. In the results, monacolin K represses Abeta40 neurotoxicity via repressing small G-protein-mediated inflammation, and other metabolites of RE 568 also exhibit potent antioxidative ability against Abeta-induced oxidative stress. Importantly, stronger effects on repressing the Abeta40-induced cell death, inflammation, and oxidative stress are performed by RE 568 than that by the equal levels of lovastatin, which results from a potent synergism made up of monacolin K, antioxidants, and anti-inflammatory agents. The present study is the first report to demonstrate the potent synergistic protection of RMR against Abeta40 neurotoxicity, which would cause RMR to be developed as potential and novel functional food for the prophylaxis of AD pathogenesis.
18438730	Alignment of transcripts and genome sequences yielded a set of alternatively spliced transcripts in four angiosperm genomes: three dicotyledon species Medicago truncatula (Medicago), Populus trichocarpa (poplar) and Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis), and the monocotyledon Oryzae sativa (rice). Intron retention was the predominant mode of alternative splicing (AS) in each species, consistent with previous reports for Arabidopsis and rice. We analyzed the structure of 5'-splice junctions and observed commonalities between species. There was dependency of base composition between sites flanking the 5'-splice junction, with the potential to create a subset of splice sites that interact more weakly or strongly than average with U1 snRNA. Such altered nucleotide composition was correlated with splicing fidelity in all four species. For Medicago, poplar and Arabidopsis, but not in rice, alternative splicing was most prevalent for introns with decreased UA content, consistent with lower UA content for monocot introns and potentially reflecting evolved differences in splicing mechanisms. Similarly, the occurrence of AS between transcript Gene Ontology categories was positively correlated between Arabidopsis and Medicago, with no correlation between dicots and rice. Analysis of within-species paralogs and between-species reciprocal best-hit homologs yielded rare cases of potentially conserved AS events. Reverse transcriptase PCR and amplicon sequencing were used to confirm a subset of the in silico-predicted AS events within Medicago, as well as to characterize conserved AS events between Medicago and Arabidopsis.
18438740	Nanotechnology is a broad interdisciplinary area of research, development, and industrial activity that has been growing rapidly worldwide for the past decade. More ambitious uses of nanoparticles are bioremediation of contaminated environments, controlled release of fragrances, biocides, and antifungals on textiles. Silica nanocomposites have received much attention because of its thermal degradation behavior and applications in chromatography, medicine, optics, etc. Nanobiotech takes agriculture from the battleground of genetically modified organisms to the brave new world of atomically modified organisms where rice has been modified atomically. Silica has been widely applied in various industries. Application of gold-coated silica has been used in the treatment for benign and malignant tumor. Surface-modified hydrophobic as well as lipophilic nanosilica could be effectively used as novel drugs for treatment of chicken malaria and nuclear polyhedrosis virus (BmNPV), a scourge in silkworm industry. Here, the authors attempt to provide a review to explain the impact of nanosilica on basic biology, medicine, agro-nanoproducts, and use of amorphous nanosilica as biopesticide.
18438960	This study was initiated to search for fungal candidates for microbial control of brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens Stl, to which little attention has been paid in the past two decades. Thirty-five isolates of Metarhizium anisopliae (Metschnikoff) Sorokin and M. flavoviride Gams & Rozsypal from different host insects worldwide were bioassayed for their lethal effects against third-instar BPH nymphs at 25 degrees C and a 14:10 h light:dark photoperiod at ca 1000 conidia mm(-2). On day 9 post-treatment, mortality attributable to mycosis ranged from 6.5 to 64.2% and differed significantly among the tested isolates with no apparent relationship to their host origin. Only two BPH-derived M. anisopliae isolates from the Philippines (ARSEF456) and Indonesia (ARSEF576) killed >50% of the nymphs. Both isolates were further bioassayed for time-concentration-mortality responses of the nymphs to the sprays of 19-29, 118-164 and 978-1088 conidia mm(-2) in repeated bioassays. The resultant data fitted a time-concentration-mortality model very well. Their LC(50) values were estimated as 731 and 1124 conidia mm(-2) on day 7 and fell to 284 and 306 conidia mm(-2), respectively, on day 10. The two M. anisopliae isolates are potential biocontrol agents of BPH for further research. This is the first report of the lethal effects of global Metarhizium isolates on the rice pest.
18439710	The cherry rootstock 'Colt' line was transformed with a phytochrome A rice gene with the aim of altering light perception. Three transgenic events were chosen because of a modified developmental behavior. When red enriched light was supplied horizontally to stems, the PD3 transgenic line showed an increased rate of phytomer formation associated to a superior rate of plant growth compared to wild type (WT). Under the same light conditions, the PO1 and PA lines were less altered in morphology and development. When far-red enriched light was supplied, all transgenic lines had a reduced rate of growth, with the PD3 line being the most similar to the WT. The influence of the alien gene on root and leaf-associated bacteria was studied for a duration of 1 year. Significantly more culturable bacteria were recovered from PA lines than from PO1, PD3 and WT lines. On average, significantly more fluorescent pseudomonads were recovered from the rhizosphere of PA and PO1 lines than from PD3 and WT. No significant differences were detected in the number of bacteria recovered from the phyllosphere of transgenic and WT plant lines. A total of 143 Pseudomonas fluorescens strains isolated from rhizosphere of transgenic and WT lines were tested for their antagonistic activity against Phytophthora nicotianae and differences between bacteria derived from transgenic and WT were not detected. Fluorescent pseudomonads strains isolated from phyllosphere of PA and PO1 lines showed antagonistic activity against P. syringae pv. syringae, whereas no difference among the transgenic and WT lines was detected when fluorescent Pseudomonas strains were tested against P. syringae pv. mors-prunorum. Pathogenicity tests were conducted on rooted and micropropagated plants with P. s. pv. syringae and P. s. pv. mors-prunorum: in all assays, the PO1 lines were the most tolerant to P. s. pv. Syringae, and the PO1 and PD3 were tolerant to P. s. pv. mors-prunorum.
18439868	Oxygen deficit is an important abiotic stress influencing plants, because this condition results in an 'energy crisis'. Most species only survive short periods of anoxia, but several wetland species tolerate prolonged anoxia. Transcriptomic and proteomic studies, using anoxia-tolerant rice and anoxia-intolerant Arabidopsis, have provided evidence for the selective adoption of pyrophosphate (PPi) over ATP as high-energy donor molecules, which may contribute to anoxia tolerance. The use of PPi in some tolerant plant species is similar to that observed in many anaerobic prokaryotes. Investigations are being performed to better understand the origin and regulation of reversible PPi-dependent glycolytic enzymes such as cytosolic pyruvate phosphate dikinase, as well as PPi-consuming enzymes, which are engaged during the anoxic energy crisis. This will be crucial in unraveling this currency switch and its contribution to anoxia tolerance.
18440169	The molecular mechanism of a traditional hypoglycemic Chinese herbal formula. To explore the glucose uptake effect as well as the mechanism(s) of action of Bai-Hu-Tang (BHT), a traditional Chinese herbal formula, composed of anemarrhena, gypsum, licorice and rice. Differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes were treated with vehicle, insulin or insulin plus different concentrations of BHT. The 2-deoxy-[(3)H] glucose uptake assay was performed to measure the amount of glucose uptake. To explore the mechanism(s) of glucose uptake of BHT, we used two insulin signaling transduction inhibitors, N-Acetyl-Leu-Leu-Norleu-al (ALLN), a calpain inhibitor, and LY 294002, a phosphatidylinositol (PI)3-kinase inhibitor, to test if the glucose uptake effect was mediated by the insulin signaling pathway. We then used Western blot analysis to re-confirm the result of the insulin signaling inhibition assay. Finally, reporter chimera assay of HuH-7 cells was used to measure the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) activation by BHT. BHT potentiated insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The effect of BHT-stimulated glucose uptake was neither inhibited by ALLN nor by LY 294002. The protein expression of PI3 kinase pathway did not change after BHT stimulation. PPARgamma activation was elevated by 67.7+/-32% (p<0.05) in HuH-7 cells treated with 0.8 microg/ml of BHT. BHT stimulated glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. This effect was via PPARgamma activation rather than via the insulin signaling pathway.
18440261	Ectotherm vertebrates show physiological mechanisms that reduce metabolic costs during prolonged fasting. Once feeding, these animals adopt a wide variety of metabolic responses such as changes in gastrointestinal organ masses. Up-regulatory responses after feeding have been widely explored in infrequently feeding snakes like pythons, whereas few studies have been devoted to frequently feeding snakes. In this study, we have considered the gastrointestinal responses after feeding in a frequent feeder, the viperine snake Natrix maura, in the Ebro Delta rice fields. In this habitat, viperine snakes are exposed to long periods of food deprivation due to the lack of available prey as a consequence of the man-induced rice cycle. We weighed prey items and full gut masses, and measured length of combined esophagus and stomach, and intestine of viperine snakes belonging to a wide range of sizes. Snakes concentrate foraging activity when rice fields were flooded. In this period, gut masses increased. Likewise, intestines increased in length during the feeding period, which suggests that viperine snakes probably experience a postfeeding hypertrophy of their small intestines that contributes to their larger length. Once the intestine length was corrected for the snake size, it was shown that adults present longer intestines than immature snakes, reflecting an increase in the posterior part of the body linked to the gonads development. This study contributes to explore the physiological responses to feeding in frequently feeding snakes modelled by abrupt shifts of food availability.
18440807	This article presents the application of microwave-induced pyrolysis to total recovery of resources and energy from rice straw. The microwave power and particle size of feedstock were both key parameters affecting the performance of microwave-induced pyrolysis. Under 400-500W microwave power, the reduction of fixed carbon in the biomass was significant. From the experimental results of specific surface area, zeta potential, and Cu2+ adsorption, the applications of solid residues in the water and wastewater treatment could be expected. The major compositions in gaseous product were H2, CO2, CO, CH4 of 55, 17, 13, 10vol.%, respectively. The high H2 content might imply that microwave-induced pyrolysis of biomass waste has the potential to produce the H2-rich fuel gas. Alkanes, polars, and low-ringed polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were three primary kinds of compounds in the liquid product.
1844093	With the objective of determining the relationship between ascariasis and carbohydrate absorption from rice, breath hydrogen tests (BHT's) were performed in two study populations of Burmese village children. Using a rice test meal, breath hydrogen peaks greater than 10 ppm above baseline within 4 hours (indicating rice malabsorption) were seen in 24 out of 55 (44 per cent) Ascaris lumbricoides infected children and 3 out of 18 (17 per cent) non-infected children (age 18-59 months). In another ascaris endemic village 139 children (age 36-108 months) underwent a rice meal BHT. Seventy children had been regularly dewormed for 2 years (single dose levamisole 50 mg every 3 months) whilst 69 children had been dewormed once in 2 years, 6 weeks before breath testing. Regularly dewormed children showed a lower prevalence of rice malabsorption (33 per cent) compared to the control group (54 per cent) (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that malabsorption of carbohydrate from rice can occur during Ascaris lumbricoides infection in children.
18441339	DEAD-box proteins comprise a large protein family with members from all kingdoms and play important roles in all types of processes in RNA metabolism. In this study, a rice gene OsBIRH1, which encodes a DEAD-box RNA helicase protein, was cloned and characterized. The predicted OsBIRH1 protein contains a DEAD domain and all conserved motifs that are common characteristics of DEAD-box RNA helicases. Recombinant OsBIRH1 protein purified from Escherichia coli was shown to have both RNA-dependent ATPase and ATP-dependent RNA helicase activities in vitro. Expression of OsBIRH1 was activated in rice seedling leaves after treatment with defence-related signal chemicals, for example benzothiadiazole, salicylic acid, l-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, and jasmonic acid, and was also up-regulated in an incompatible interaction between a resistant rice genotype and the blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpress the OsBIRH1 gene were generated. Disease resistance phenotype assays revealed that the OsBIRH1-overexpressing transgenic plants showed an enhanced disease resistance against Alternaria brassicicola and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000. Meanwhile, defence-related genes, for example PR-1, PR-2, PR-5, and PDF1.2, showed an up-regulated expression in the transgenic plants. Moreover, the OsBIRH1 transgenic Arabidopsis plants also showed increased tolerance to oxidative stress and elevated expression levels of oxidative defence genes, AtApx1, AtApx2, and AtFSD1. The results suggest that OsBIRH1 encodes a functional DEAD-box RNA helicase and plays important roles in defence responses against biotic and abiotic stresses.
18441429	This study demonstrated the influence of protein on biohydrogen production from carbohydrates, especially starch, by using different combinations of two model food wastes, rice as starch-rich and soybean residue as protein-rich food waste. It was found the maximum specific hydrogen production potential, 0.99 mol H2/mol initial starch as glucose, and the maximum specific hydrogen production rate, 530 ml H2/h g-VS, occurred at a starch/protein ratio of 1.7. The protein content in the initial food waste not only provided buffering capacity to neutralize the volatile fatty acids as concurrent products but also enhanced the hydrogen production by providing readily available organic nitrogen such as soluble proteins and amino acids to microorganisms.
18441794	The SO2 sorption capacity (SSC) of sorbents prepared from rice husk ash (RHA) with NaOH as additive was studied in a fixed-bed reactor. The sorbents were prepared using a water hydration method by slurrying RHA, CaO, and NaOH. Response surface methodology (RSM) based on four-variable central composite face centered design (CCFCD) was employed in the synthesis of the sorbents. The correlation between the sorbent SSC (as response) with four independent sorbent preparation variables, i.e. hydration period, RHA/CaO ratio, NaOH amount, and drying temperature, were presented as empirical mathematical models. Among all the variables studied, the amount of NaOH used was found to be the most significant variable affecting the SSC of the sorbents prepared. The SSC for sorbent prepared with the addition of NaOH was found to be significantly higher than sorbents prepared without NaOH. This is probably because NaOH is a deliquescent material, and its existence increases the amount of water collected on the surface of the sorbent, a condition required for sorbent-SO2 reaction to occur at low temperature. The effect of further treatment of RHA at 600 degrees C was also investigated. Although pretreated RHA sorbents demonstrated higher SSC as compared to untreated RHA sorbents, nevertheless, at optimum conditions, sorbents prepared from untreated RHA was found to be more favorable due to practical and economic concerns.
18441940	Contents of lead in several crops as well as its uptake and distribution by paddy in typical lead-zinc deposit area of western Hunan province were studied based on field systematic sampling and laboratory analysis. The average concentration of lead in rice, maize and soy bean in the deposit was 2.4, 1.2 and 3.3 times higher than that in control area, respectively, suggesting that crops in the deposit were heavily contaminated by the element. Significant difference of the lead concentrations in crops was found among different crop species and different organs of the same crops. The average concentration of lead followed the trend: soy bean > rice > maize (among crop species), and root > haulm > seed (among organs). Paddy root exhibited strong binding and tolerant capacity to lead. Correlation analysis indicated that soil lead was main retention in paddy root, whereas the gaseous lead might be the main source for lead in the aerial part of crop. Heavy metals such as Hg, Cd as well as Pb co-enriched in crops, therefore the mechanism and health risk of the combined pollution of heavy metals in the deposit crops should be paid attention to.
18441944	To detect the metabolic characteristic of rice straw degradation by composite microbial system WSC-6, we cultured WSC-6 in the media used rice straw as the limiting carbon source. The rice straw was added in the style of different quantity once or the same quantity at the different time intervals during 90 days culture. The systems were cultivated under static condition at 50 degrees C. The degradation ratio, absolute degradation quantity,products from degradation and dynamics of pH value of fermentation system were all investigated. The results showed: when 1% rice straw was added once, the pH of fermentation system decreased from initial 7.8 to 6.0 within the first three days inoculation, and after six-day cultivation, it increased to 8.0 and was stable. For dissolved oxygen concentration (DO), the value was maintained at range of 0.01 to 0.12 mg x L(-1) of microaerobic condition. During the rice straw degradation, more than ten kinds of products including ethanol, acetic acid, lactic acid and glycerol and so on were detected using GC-MS. Especially, the highest concentration of lactic acid among all products was 7.381 g x L(-1) at 24 h after inoculation. During 90-day cultivation, for the addition treatments of the different quantity once, the more rice straw added, the quicker and lower the pH decreased, and the longer time intervals returned the pHs were. Especially for 5.0% addition, when 5.0% of rice straw was added once, pH did not increase again after it decreased. Among the addition of the same quantity at the different time intervals, the trend of decrease-increase in pH at 12-day and 15-day intervals could be repeated and high degradation activity well maintained. After 90-day of inoculation, the highest degradation ratio occurred in the treatment at 15-day interval, which was 86.7%. The highest absolute quantity occurred in the treatment at 6-day interval, which was 32.4 g. The trend of pH changes can indicate the activity of lignocellulose degradation and degradation process of the WSC-6.
18442073	Continuous and indiscriminate use of pesticides, especially in tropical countries for public health or agriculture purpose, has led many vector populations to become resistant to organochlorides, organophosphates, and even to carbamates and pyrethroids. Development of resistance by a vector population has been one of the reasons for the failure of the control measures in many countries. This investigation demonstrates the efficacy of piperonyl-butoxide (PBO) with deltamethrin, as pyrethroid insecticide, against the field-collected mosquitoe larvae of five species, Aedes aegypti, Anopheles culicifacies, An. stephensi, An. vagus, and Culex quinqufasciatus, and two morphological variants of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus (type A from grand pools of Mysore city and type B from rice fields of Mandya district). For testing the synergistic effect of PBO, stock solutions of deltamethrin and PBO were mixed in 1:6 ratio. The synergistic ratio and the percent suppression in deltamethrin tolerance were calculated by using LC(50) values. From the results, it is clear that, PBO is an effective synergist with deltamethrin against all of species undertaken in this investigation. So, it is suggested that PBO is a good synergist in this area for decreasing the use of pesticides in environment in vector control.
18442363	WRKY proteins belong to the WRKY-GCM1 superfamily of zinc finger transcription factors that have been subject to a large plant-specific diversification. For the cereal crop barley (Hordeum vulgare), three different WRKY proteins have been characterized so far as regulators in sucrose signaling, pathogen defense, and in response to cold and drought. However, their phylogenetic relationship remained unresolved. In this study, we used available sequence information to identify a minimum number of 45 barley WRKY transcription factor (HvWRKY) genes. According to their structural features, the HvWRKY factors were classified into the previously defined polyphyletic WRKY subgroups 1 to 3. Furthermore, we could assign putative orthologs of the HvWRKY proteins in Arabidopsis and rice. While in most cases clades of orthologous proteins were formed within each group or subgroup, other clades were composed of paralogous proteins for the grasses and Arabidopsis only, which is indicative of specific gene radiation events. To gain insight into their putative functions, we examined expression profiles of WRKY genes from publicly available microarray data resources and found group specific expression patterns. While putative orthologs of the HvWRKY transcription factors have been inferred from phylogenetic sequence analysis, we performed a comparative expression analysis of WRKY genes in Arabidopsis and barley. Indeed, highly correlative expression profiles were found between some of the putative orthologs. HvWRKY genes have not only undergone radiation in monocot or dicot species, but exhibit evolutionary traits specific to grasses. HvWRKY proteins exhibited not only sequence similarities between orthologs with Arabidopsis, but also relatedness in their expression patterns. This correlative expression is indicative for a putative conserved function of related WRKY proteins in monocot and dicot species.
18442365	Plants respond to extracellularly perceived abiotic stresses such as low temperature, drought, and salinity by activation of complex intracellular signaling cascades that regulate acclimatory biochemical and physiological changes. Protein kinases are major signal transduction factors that have a central role in mediating acclimation to environmental changes in eukaryotic organisms. In this study, we characterized the function of the sucrose nonfermenting 1-related protein kinase2 (SnRK2) SAPK4 in the salt stress response of rice. Translational fusion of SAPK4 with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) showed subcellular localization in cytoplasm and nucleus. To examine the role of SAPK4 in salt tolerance we generated transgenic rice plants with over-expression of rice SAPK4 under control of the CaMV-35S promoter. Induced expression of SAPK4 resulted in improved germination, growth and development under salt stress both in seedlings and mature plants. In response to salt stress, the SAPK4-overexpressing rice accumulated less Na+ and Cl- and showed improved photosynthesis. SAPK4-regulated genes with functions in ion homeostasis and oxidative stress response were identified: the vacuolar H+-ATPase, the Na+/H+ antiporter NHX1, the Cl- channel OsCLC1 and a catalase. Our results show that SAPK4 regulates ion homeostasis and growth and development under salinity and suggest function of SAPK4 as a regulatory factor in plant salt stress acclimation. Identification of signaling elements involved in stress adaptation in plants presents a powerful approach to identify transcriptional activators of adaptive mechanisms to environmental changes that have the potential to improve tolerance in crop plants.
18443193	Dietary patterns in Western populations have been linked to type 2 diabetes, but the role of diet in Japanese remains unclear. We investigated the association between major dietary patterns and glucose tolerance status as measured by A1C in Japanese adults. The groups of subjects were comprised of 3,243 men and 4,667 women who participated in the baseline survey of an ongoing cohort study on lifestyle-related diseases in Fukuoka, Japan. Dietary patterns were derived by using principal-component analysis of the consumption of 49 food items, ascertained by a food-frequency questionnaire. Logistic regression analysis was used to estimate sex-specific odds ratios (ORs) of elevated A1C (>or=5.5%), with adjustment for potential confounding variables. The Westernized breakfast pattern characterized by frequent intake of bread but infrequent intake of rice was inversely related to A1C concentrations (P(trend) = 0.02 in both men and women); the multivariate-adjusted ORs for the highest versus lowest quintiles were 0.60 (95% CI 0.43-0.84) and 0.64 (0.46-0.90) for men and women, respectively. The seafood dietary pattern was positively associated with A1C concentrations in men only (P(trend) = 0.01). Neither the healthy nor high-fat dietary pattern was related to A1C. A dietary pattern featuring frequent intake of white rice may deteriorate glucose metabolism in Japanese men and women, and the salty seafood dietary pattern may have a similar effect in men.
18443412	Thirteen near-isogenic lines (NILs) of japonica rice were developed via a backcross method using the recurrent parent Chucheong, which is of good eating quality but is susceptible to Magnaporthe grisea, and three blast resistant japonica donors, Seolak, Daeseong and Bongkwang. The agro-morphological traits of these NILs, such as heading date, culm length, and panicle length, were similar to those of Chucheong. In a genome-wide scan using 158 SSR markers, chromosome segments of Chucheong were identified in most polymorphic regions of the 13 NIL plants, and only a few chromosome segments were found to have been substituted by donor alleles. The genetic similarities of the 13 NILs to the recurrent parent Chucheong averaged 0.961, with a range of 0.932-0.984. Analysis of 13 major blast resistance (R) genes in these lines using specific DNA markers showed that each NIL appeared to contain some combination of the four R genes, Pib, Pii, Pik-m and Pita-2, with the first three genes being present in each line. Screening of nine M. grisea isolates revealed that one NIL M7 was resistant to all nine isolates; the remaining NILs were each resistant to between three and seven isolates, except for NIL M106, which was resistant to only two isolates. In a blast nursery experiment, all the NILs proved to be more resistant than Chucheong. These newly developed NILs have potential as commercial rice varieties because of their increased resistance to M. grisea combined with the desirable agronomic traits of Chucheong. They also provide material for studying the genetic basis of blast resistance.
18443414	Comparison of maps and QTLs between populations may provide us with a better understanding of molecular maps and the inheritance of traits. We developed and used two reciprocal BC1F1 populations, IP/DS//IP and IP/DS//DS, for QTL analysis. DS (Dasanbyeo) is a Korean tongil-type cultivar (derived from an indica x japonica cross and similar to indica in its genetic make-up) and IP (Ilpumbyeo) is a Korean japonica cultivar. We constructed two molecular linkage maps corresponding to each backcross population using 196 markers for each map. The length of each chromosome was longer in the IP/DS//IP population than in the IP/DS//DS population, indicating that more recombinants were produced in the IP/DS//IP population. Distorted segregation was observed for 44 and 19 marker loci for the IP/DS//IP and IP/DS//DS populations, respectively; these were mostly skewed in favor of the indica alleles. A total of 36 main effect QTLs (M-QTLs) and 15 digenic epistatic interactions (E-QTLs) were detected for the seven traits investigated. The phenotypic variation explained (PVE) by M-QTLs ranged from 3.4% to 88.2%. Total PVE of the M-QTLs for each trait was significantly higher than that of the E-QTLs. The total number of M-QTLs identified in the IP/DS//IP population was higher than in the IP/DS//DS population. However, the total PVE by the M-QTLs and E-QTLs together for each trait was similar in the two populations, suggesting that the two BC1F1 populations are equally useful for QTL analysis. Maps and QTLs in the two populations were compared. Eleven new QTLs were identified for SN, SF, GL, and GW in this study, and they will be valuable in marker-assisted selection, particularly for improving grain traits in tongil-type varieties.
1844402	This study compared two high carbohydrate (CHO) diets in 14 male runners for effects on muscle glycogen deposition, endurance, and sensations of gastrointestinal discomfort. Muscle glycogen was measured in the vastus lateralis at rest and run time to exhaustion at 75% VO2max was measured following 3-1/2 days on a 50% CHO diet. After 14 days the subjects consumed a 20% CHO diet and continued training to reduce glycogen. During the next 3-1/2 days, subjects ran less and consumed a 90% CHO diet emphasizing pasta and rice (Pasta, n = 7) or lesser amounts of pasta and rice supplemented by a maltodextrin beverage (Supplement, n = 7). Glycogen was again measured, followed by a second run to exhaustion. Compared to the 50% CHO diet, Pasta increased muscle glycogen by 27.1 +/- 12.2 mmoles/kg muscle (M +/- SE; P < 0.05) and run time by 15.7 +/- 5.9 min; Supplement increased glycogen by 43.2 +/- 13.5 mmoles/kg (P < 0.05) and run time by 29.0 +/- 7.4 min (P < 0.05). Total glycogen concentrations and run times were not significantly different for Pasta versus Supplement. Subjects reported less gastrointestinal discomfort and greater overall preference for Supplement than for Pasta. Thus, glycogen loading can be accomplished at least as effectively and more comfortably by substituting a maltodextrin drink for some of the pasta and rice in a glycogen loading diet.
1844404	The dietary strategies of a 25-year-old bodybuilder were studied as he prepared for a contest. Food records were kept over a 6-month period that included the off-season, weight reduction phase, and week of a contest. Mean caloric intake during the off-season was 4,193 kcal (49 kcal/kg). Average intake per kg body weight was 8.7 g/kg carbohydrate and 2.8 g/kg protein. During the weight reduction phase of training, mean caloric intake was 3,020 kcal (37 kcal/kg). Carbohydrate intake averaged 6.1 g/kg and protein averaged 2.7 g/kg. The RDA was met for all micronutrients without any need for supplementation. Beginning at 3 weeks before the contest, dietary intake changed dramatically and haddock, rice, or potato were eaten every 2 hours. Protein intake averaged 4 g/kg. Carbo-loading was practiced the week precontest to enhance muscularity. During all phases the subject used anabolic steroids and consumed various supplements. During the off-season he took a high potency multivitamin/multimineral daily and 60-100 grams of amino acids when "needed." As the competition drew closer, numerous additional supplements were taken. In light of these many unhealthy practices, alternative strategies should be negotiated with the athlete that are realistic, and changes should be implemented slowly.
18444153	One etiologic factor for high incidence of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in Golestan (Northeastern Iran) might be exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. We examined whether food and water are major sources of benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) exposure in this population. We used a dietary questionnaire to assess the daily intake of staple food (rice and bread) and water in 3 groups: 40 ESCC Golestan cases, 40 healthy subjects from the same area, and 40 healthy subjects from a low-risk area in Southern Iran. We measured, by high-performance liquid chromatography combined with fluorescence detection, the BaP concentration of bread, rice, and water in samples obtained from these 3 groups and calculated the daily intake of BaP. Mean BaP concentration of staple foods and water was similar and within standard levels in both areas, but the daily intake of BaP was higher in controls from the high-risk area than in controls from the low-risk area (91.4 vs. 70.6 ng/day, P < 0.01). In the multivariate regression analysis, having ESCC had no independent effect on BaP, whereas residence in the low-risk area was associated with a significant decrease in total BaP intake. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons might, along with other risk factors, contribute to the high risk of ESCC in Golestan.
18444156	This study was undertaken to investigate the in vivo anti-tumor activity of MGN-3/Biobran, a modified arabinoxylan rice bran. Swiss albino mice were inoculated intramuscularly in the right thigh with Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells. On Day 8, mice bearing a solid Ehrlich carcinoma (SEC) tumor were treated with MGN-3 via intraperitoneal injection. Tumor growth, cytokine production, and apoptotic effect of MGN-3 were examined. MGN-3 caused a highly significant delay in both tumor volume (63.27%) and tumor weight (45.2%) as compared to controls (P < 0.01). The mechanisms by which MGN-3 exerts its antitumor effect seem to involve its ability to induce apoptosis and immune modulation. MGN-3 induced a 1.8-fold increase in the percentage of apoptotic SEC cells as determined by flow cytometry and the histopathological examination. In addition, MGN-3 influenced plasma cytokine production by increasing the levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma, while downregulating levels of the immune suppressing cytokine interleukin-10. Data also showed that non-tumor-bearing mice intramuscularly injected with MGN-3 resulted in a twofold increase in natural killer activity. No adverse side effects due to MGN-3 treatment were observed; all animals displayed normal feeding/drinking and life activity patterns. These data may have clinical implications for the treatment of solid cancers.
18444901	Higher plants display a variety of architectures that are defined by the degree of branching, internodal elongation, and shoot determinancy. Studies on the model plants of Arabidopsis thaliana and tomato and on crop plants such as rice and maize have greatly strengthened our understanding on the molecular genetic bases of plant architecture, one of the hottest areas in plant developmental biology. The identification of mutants that are defective in plant architecture and characterization of the corresponding and related genes will eventually enable us to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying plant architecture. The achievements made so far in studying plant architecture have already allowed us to pave a way for optimizing the plant architecture of crops by molecular design and improving grain productivity.
18444970	Expression of the cecropin A gene in rice confers resistance to the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. In this study, a polymerase chain reaction-based suppression subtractive hybridization approach was used to generate a cDNA macroarray from the elite japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar 'Senia'. Gene expression studies revealed that the expression of components of the protein secretory and vesicular transport machinery is co-ordinately activated at the pre-invasive stage of infection of rice by the blast fungus. Comparisons of gene expression between wild-type and cecropin A plants revealed the over-expression of genes involved in protection against oxidative stress in transgenic plants in the absence of the pathogen, which correlated well with the tolerance of these plants to oxidative stress. A subcellular fractionation analysis suggested that cecropin A accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum in cecropin A rice. Moreover, a large number of genes related to the processes of synthesis, folding and stabilization of proteins that enter into the secretory pathway are over-expressed in cecropin A rice, confirming that these plants constitutively express the unfolded protein response. Transgenic expression of cecropin A in rice has an effect on the transcriptional reprogramming that accompanies plant adaptation to fungal infection. Overall, this study provides evidence for transgene-induced changes in gene expression in cecropin A rice under both optimal growth conditions and stress conditions imposed by fungal infection. The data also indicate that resistance to blast in cecropin A rice may be the consequence of a combination of the antifungal activity of cecropin A and cecropin A-mediated over-expression of rice genes.
18446211	Genomics has produced hundreds of new hemoglobin sequences with examples in nearly every living organism. Structural and biochemical characterizations of many recombinant proteins reveal reactions, like oxygen binding and NO dioxygenation, that appear general to the hemoglobin superfamily regardless of whether they are related to physiological function. Despite considerable attention to "hexacoordinate" hemoglobins, which are found in nearly every plant and animal, no clear physiological role(s) has been assigned to them in any species. One popular and relevant hypothesis for their function is protection against NO. Here we have tested a comprehensive representation of hexacoordinate hemoglobins from plants (rice hemoglobin), animals (neuroglobin and cytoglobin), and bacteria (Synechocystis hemoglobin) for their abilities to scavenge NO compared to myoglobin. Our experiments include in vitro comparisons of NO dioxygenation, ferric NO binding, NO-induced reduction, NO scavenging with an artificial reduction system, and the ability to substitute for a known NO scavenger (flavohemoglobin) in E. coli. We conclude that none of these tests reveal any distinguishing predisposition toward a role in NO scavenging for the hxHbs, but that any hemoglobin could likely serve this role in the presence of a mechanism for heme iron re-reduction. Hence, future research to test the role of Hbs in NO scavenging would benefit more from the identification of cognate reductases than from in vitro analysis of NO and O(2) binding.
18447922	PTGS (post-transcriptional gene silencing) is used to counter pathogenic invasions, particularly viruses. In return, many plant viruses produce proteins which suppress silencing directed against their RNA. The diversity of silencing suppression at the species level in natural hosts is unknown. We investigated the functional diversity of silencing suppression among isolates of the African RYMV (Rice yellow mottle virus) in rice. The RYMV-P1 protein is responsible for cell-to-cell movement and is a silencing suppressor. Transgenic gus-silencing rice lines were used to investigate intra-specific and serogroup silencing suppression diversity at two different levels: that of the virion and the P1 silencing suppressor protein. Our data provide evidence that silencing suppression is a universal phenomenon for RYMV species. However, we found considerable diversity in their ability to suppress silencing which was not linked to RYMV phylogeny, or pathogenicity. At the level of the silencing suppressor P1 alone, we found similar results to those previously found at the virion level. In addition, we showed that cell-to-cell movement of P1 was crucial for the efficiency of silencing suppression. Mutagenesis of P1 demonstrated a strong link between some amino acids and silencing suppression features with, one on the hand, the conserved amino acids C95 and C64 involved in cell-to-cell movement and the strength of suppression, respectively, and on the other hand, the non conserved F88 was involved in the strength of silencing suppression. We demonstrated that intra-species diversity of silencing suppression is highly variable and by mutagenesis of P1 we established the first link between silencing suppression and genetic diversity. These results are potentially important for understanding virus-host interactions.
18448219
1844878	A vector containing a transcriptionally inactive neomycin phosphotransferase II gene was used to select promoter sequences from a pool of random genomic DNA fragments. This paper describes how one such sequence (P4.7) isolated from Oryza sativa acts as a hormonally regulated promoter in Nicotiana tabacum. Relative expression ratios in leaf, root, midrib, callus, and stem tissue of tobacco plants are 1:5:4:10:17. Histochemical assays show that P4.7 activates the uidA reporter gene throughout the phloem and cortex of tobacco stems. Transcription from the P4.7 fragment is inducible in leaf tissue by low levels of alpha-naphthalene acetic acid or 6-benzyl-aminopurine, even when cell proliferation is inhibited by colchicine or hydroxyurea. Conversely, 1% DMSO was found to inhibit activation of P4.7 without interfering with callus formation. The fragment contains TATA and CAAT sequences normally found at the 5' end of many plant genes, and an additional region homologous to sequences located in similar positions in a variety of similarly regulated promoters. Promoter deletion and fusion experiments have indicated the location of a stem enhancer element in P4.7. The promoter trap system we have described may potentially be used to characterize transcriptional factors common to monocot and dicot species.
18449542	Acetolactate synthase (ALS) is a target enzyme for many herbicides, including sulfonylurea and imidazolinone. We investigated the usefulness of a mutated ALS gene of rice, which had double point mutations and encoded an herbicide-resistant form of the enzyme, as a selectable marker for wheat transformation. After the genomic DNA fragment from rice containing the mutated ALS gene was introduced into immature embryos by means of particle bombardment, transgenic plants were efficiently selected with the herbicide bispyribac sodium (BS). Southern blot analysis confirmed that transgenic plants had one to more than ten copies of the transgene in their chromosomes. Adjustment of the BS concentration combined with repeated selection effectively prevented nontransgenic plants from escaping herbicide selection. Measurement of ALS activity indicated that transgenic plants produced an herbicide-resistant form of ALS and therefore had acquired the resistance to BS. This report is the first to describe a selection system for wheat transformation that uses a selectable marker gene of plant origin.
18449564	The photoperiod is an important environmental stress that determines flowering time. The CONSTANS (CO) and Heading date 1 (Hd1) genes are known to be central integrators of the photoperiod pathway in Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. Although they are both members of the CONSTANS-LIKE (COL) family and have two B-boxes and a CCT domain, rice also possesses novel COL genes that are not found in Arabidopsis. Here, we demonstrate that a novel COL gene, OsCO3, containing a single B-box and a CCT domain, modulates photoperiodic flowering in rice. The circadian expression pattern of OsCO3 mRNA oscillated in a different phase from Hd1 and was similar to that of OsCO3 pre-mRNA, suggesting that the diurnal expression pattern of OsCO3 transcripts may be regulated at the transcriptional level. Overexpression of OsCO3 specifically caused late flowering under short day (SD) conditions relative to wild-type rice plants. The expression of Hd3a and FTL decreased in these transgenic plants, whereas the expression of Hd1, Early heading date 1 (Ehd1), OsMADS51, and OsMADS50 did not significantly change. Our results suggest that OsCO3 primarily controls flowering time under SD conditions by negatively regulating Hd3a and FTL expression, independent of the SD-promotion pathway.
18450451	In Arabidopsis, the flagellin-derived peptide flg22 elevates antibacterial resistance [1] and inhibits growth [2] upon perception via the leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase Flagellin-Sensitive 2 (FLS2) [3]. DELLA proteins are plant growth repressors whose degradation is promoted by the phytohormone gibberellin [4]. Here, we show that DELLA stabilization contributes to flg22-induced growth inhibition. In addition, we show that DELLAs promote susceptibility to virulent biotrophs and resistance to necrotrophs, partly by altering the relative strength of salicylic acid and jasmonic acid (JA) signaling. A quadruple-DELLA mutant (which lacks four out of the five Arabidopsis DELLA proteins [5]) was partially insensitive to gene induction by Methyl-Jasmonate (MeJA), whereas the constitutively active dominant DELLA mutant gai[6] was sensitized for JA-responsive gene induction, implicating DELLAs in JA-signaling and/or perception. Accordingly, the elevated resistance of gai to the necrotrophic fungus Alternaria brassicicola and susceptibility to the hemibiotroph Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000 (Pto DC3000) was attenuated in the JA-insensitive coi1-16 mutant [7]. These findings suggest an explanation for why the necrotrophic fungus Gibberella fujikuroi, causal agent of the foolish-seedling disease of rice, makes gibberellin.
18451263	Molecular cloning of the "old" but still unclassified Euonymus europaeus agglutinin (EEA) demonstrated that the lectin is a homodimeric protein composed of 152 residue subunits. Analysis of the deduced sequence indicated that EEA is synthesized without a signal peptide and undergoes no posttranslational processing apart from the removal of a six-residue N-terminal peptide. Glycan array screening confirmed the previously reported high reactivity of EEA toward blood group B oligosaccharides but also revealed binding to high mannose N-glycans, providing firm evidence for the occurrence of a plant carbohydrate-binding domain that can interact with structurally different glycans. Basic Local Alignment Search Tool searches indicated that EEA shares no detectable sequence similarity with any other lectin but is closely related evolutionarily to a domain that was first identified in some abscisic acid- and salt stress-responsive rice (Oryza sativa) proteins, and, according to the available sequence data, might be ubiquitous in Spermatophyta. Hence, EEA can be considered the prototype of a novel family of presumably cytoplasmic/nuclear proteins that are apparently ubiquitous in plants. Taking into account that some of these proteins are definitely stress related, the present identification of the EEA lectin domain might be a first step in the recognition of the involvement and importance of protein-glycoconjugate interactions in some essential cellular processes in Embryophyta.
18451790	Here, we provide comprehensive, highly efficient protocols for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of a wide range of rice genotypes. Methods that use either immature embryos (japonica and indica rice) or calli (japonica cultivars and the indica cultivar, Kasalath) as a starting material for inoculation with Agrobacterium are described. Immature embryos are pretreated with heat and centrifugal force, which significantly enhances the efficiency of gene transfer, and then infected with Agrobacterium. Callus is induced from mature seeds and infected. Transformed cells proliferated from these tissues are selected on the basis of hygromycin resistance, and transgenic plants are eventually regenerated. A single immature japonica or Kasalath embryo will produce between 10 and 18 independent transgenic plants; for other non-Kasalath indica varieties, the number of transgenic plants expected will be between 5 and 13. For japonica and Kasalath, transformants should be obtained from between 50 and 90% of calli. From inoculation with Agrobacterium to transplanting to soil will take 55 d for japonica and Kasalath, and 74 d for indica other than Kasalath using the immature embryo method, and 50 d for japonica and Kasalath using the callus method.
18452608	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial blight of rice (Oryza sativa L.), a major disease that constrains production of this staple crop in many parts of the world. We report here on the complete genome sequence of strain PXO99A and its comparison to two previously sequenced strains, KACC10331 and MAFF311018, which are highly similar to one another. The PXO99A genome is a single circular chromosome of 5,240,075 bp, considerably longer than the genomes of the other strains (4,941,439 bp and 4,940,217 bp, respectively), and it contains 5083 protein-coding genes, including 87 not found in KACC10331 or MAFF311018. PXO99A contains a greater number of virulence-associated transcription activator-like effector genes and has at least ten major chromosomal rearrangements relative to KACC10331 and MAFF311018. PXO99A contains numerous copies of diverse insertion sequence elements, members of which are associated with 7 out of 10 of the major rearrangements. A rapidly-evolving CRISPR (clustered regularly interspersed short palindromic repeats) region contains evidence of dozens of phage infections unique to the PXO99A lineage. PXO99A also contains a unique, near-perfect tandem repeat of 212 kilobases close to the replication terminus. Our results provide striking evidence of genome plasticity and rapid evolution within Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. The comparisons point to sources of genomic variation and candidates for strain-specific adaptations of this pathogen that help to explain the extraordinary diversity of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae genotypes and races that have been isolated from around the world.
18452875	The S1103Y-SCN5A polymorphism has been implicated as a proarrhythmic, sudden death predisposing risk factor in African Americans, including one postmortem investigation of African-American infants with sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). The purpose of this study was to assess whether the relatively African-American-specific common polymorphism S1103Y in the SCN5A-encoded cardiac sodium channel is overrepresented in SIDS among African Americans. Seventy-one cases from a population-based cohort of unexplained infant deaths among African Americans (37 females and 34 males, average age 3 +/- 2 months, age range birth to 11 months) were submitted to the Mayo Clinic Windland Smith Rice Sudden Death Genomics Laboratory for postmortem genetic testing. Polymerase chain reaction and a restriction digest assay were performed to genotype this cohort for S1103Y. Targeted mutational analysis of exon 18 in SCN5A of the African-American SIDS cohort (n = 71) revealed the S1103Y polymorphism in 16 (22.5%) of 71 African-American cases of SIDS compared to 135 (11.6%) of 1,161 ostensibly healthy adult African Americans (P = .01). This study provides an independent assessment of the prevalence of S1103Y-SCN5A among African-American infants with sudden, unexpected, unexplained death prior to their first birthday. Further scrutiny and quantification of the risk apparently associated with S1103Y appear warranted.
18453411	In northern Laos, intensification of cultivation on sloping land leads to accelerated erosion processes. Management of riparian land may counteract the negative impacts of higher sediment delivery rates on water quality. This study assessed water and sediment concentration trapping efficiencies of riparian vegetation in northern Laos and the effect of cultivation of riparian land on water quality. Runoff flowing in and out of selected riparian sites was monitored by means of open troughs. In 2005, two native grass, two bamboo, and two banana sites were monitored. In 2006, adjacent to steep banana, bamboo, and native grass sites, three upland rice sites were established and monitored. Water trapping efficiency (WTE) and sediment concentration trapping efficiency (SCTE) were calculated on an event basis; means and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated with a bootstrapping approach. Confidence intervals were large and overlapping among sites. Seepage conditions severely limited trapping efficiency. Native grass resulted in the highest WTE (95% CI, -0.10 to 0.23), which was not significantly different from zero. Banana resulted in the highest SCTE (95% CI, 0.06-0.40). Bamboo had negative WTE and SCTE. Median outflow runoff from rice sites was nine times the inflow. Median outflow sediment concentration from rice sites was two to five times that of their adjacent sites and two to five times the inflow sediment concentration. Although low-tillage banana plantation may reduce sediment concentration of runoff, cultivation of annual crops in riparian land leads to delivery of turbid runoff into the stream, thus severely affecting stream water quality.
18453529	In this study, the genetic mapping of the tolerance of root growth to 13.3 muM arsenate [As(V)] using the BalaxAzucena population is improved, and candidate genes for further study are identified. A remarkable three-gene model of tolerance is advanced, which appears to involve epistatic interaction between three major genes, two on chromosome 6 and one on chromosome 10. Any combination of two of these genes inherited from the tolerant parent leads to the plant having tolerance. Lists of potential positional candidate genes are presented. These are then refined using whole genome transcriptomics data and bioinformatics. Physiological evidence is also provided that genes related to phosphate transport are unlikely to be behind the genetic loci conferring tolerance. These results offer testable hypotheses for genes related to As(V) tolerance that might offer strategies for mitigating arsenic (As) accumulation in consumed rice.
18453530	Rice (Oryza sativa) varieties that are arsenate-tolerant (Bala) and -sensitive (Azucena) were used to conduct a transcriptome analysis of the response of rice seedlings to sodium arsenate (AsV) in hydroponic solution. RNA extracted from the roots of three replicate experiments of plants grown for 1 week in phosphate-free nutrient with or without 13.3 muM AsV was used to challenge the Affymetrix (52K) GeneChip Rice Genome array. A total of 576 probe sets were significantly up-regulated at least 2-fold in both varieties, whereas 622 were down-regulated. Ontological classification is presented. As expected, a large number of transcription factors, stress proteins, and transporters demonstrated differential expression. Striking is the lack of response of classic oxidative stress-responsive genes or phytochelatin synthases/synthatases. However, the large number of responses from genes involved in glutathione synthesis, metabolism, and transport suggests that glutathione conjugation and arsenate methylation may be important biochemical responses to arsenate challenge. In this report, no attempt is made to dissect differences in the response of the tolerant and sensitive variety, but analysis in a companion article will link gene expression to the known tolerance loci available in the BalaxAzucena mapping population.
18453531	During floral induction and flower development plants undergo delicate phase changes which are under tight molecular control. MADS-box transcription factors have been shown to play pivotal roles during these transition phases. SHORT VEGETATIVE PHASE (SVP) and AGAMOUS LIKE 24 (AGL24) are important regulators both during the transition to flowering and during flower development. During vegetative growth they exert opposite roles on floral transition, acting as repressor and promoter of flowering, respectively. Later during flower development they act redundantly as negative regulators of AG expression. In rice, the orthologues of SVP and AGL24 are OsMADS22, OsMADS47, and OsMADS55 and these three genes are involved in the negative regulation of brassinosteroid responses. In order to understand whether these rice genes have maintained the ability to function as regulators of flowering time in Arabidopsis, complementation tests were performed by expressing OsMADS22 and OsMADS47 in the svp and agl24 mutants. The results show that the rice genes are not able to complement the flowering-time phenotype of the Arabidopsis mutants, indicating that they are biologically inactive in Arabidopsis. Nevertheless, they cause floral reversions, which mimic the SVP and AGL24 floral overexpressor phenotypes. Yeast two-hybrid analysis suggests that these floral phenotypes are probably the consequence of protein interactions between OsMADS22 and OsMADS47 and other MADS-box proteins which interfere with the formation of complexes required for normal flower development.
18453549	Organelle (mitochondria and chloroplasts in plants) genomes lost a large number of genes after endosymbiosis occurred. Even after this major gene loss, organelle genomes still lose their own genes, even those that are essential, via gene transfer to the nucleus and gene substitution of either different organelle origin or de novo genes. Gene transfer and substitution events are important processes in the evolution of the eukaryotic cell. Gene loss is an ongoing process in the mitochondria and chloroplasts of higher plants. The gene for ribosomal protein S16 (rps16) is encoded in the chloroplast genome of most higher plants but not in Medicago truncatula and Populus alba. Here, we show that these 2 species have compensated for loss of the rps16 from the chloroplast genome by having a mitochondrial rps16 that can target the chloroplasts as well as mitochondria. Furthermore, in Arabidopsis thaliana, Lycopersicon esculentum, and Oryza sativa, whose chloroplast genomes encode the rps16, we show that the product of the mitochondrial rps16 has dual targeting ability. These results suggest that the dual targeting of RPS16 to the mitochondria and chloroplasts emerged before the divergence of monocots and dicots (140-150 MYA). The gene substitution of the chloroplast rps16 by the nuclear-encoded rps16 in higher plants is the first report about ongoing gene substitution by dual targeting and provides evidence for an intermediate stage in the formation of this heterogeneous organelle.
18454147	Yield potential, plant height and heading date are three classes of traits that determine the productivity of many crop plants. Here we show that the quantitative trait locus (QTL) Ghd7, isolated from an elite rice hybrid and encoding a CCT domain protein, has major effects on an array of traits in rice, including number of grains per panicle, plant height and heading date. Enhanced expression of Ghd7 under long-day conditions delays heading and increases plant height and panicle size. Natural mutants with reduced function enable rice to be cultivated in temperate and cooler regions. Thus, Ghd7 has played crucial roles for increasing productivity and adaptability of rice globally.
18454347	A cellulose-degrading fungal strain has been isolated from a rotten rag. Morphological characterization and ITS1, 5.8S and ITS2 rDNA sequencing showed that the strain is a new isolate of Stachybotrys atra. The strain secreted high cellulase activity in media supplemented with rice straw. However, cellulases were not produced in glucose-supplemented media. The crude cellulase showed the highest activity on amorphous celluloses such as carboxymethyl cellulose, while activity on crystalline celluloses such as Avicel was lower. The optimal temperature and pH for CMCase activity were 70 degrees C and pH 5 respectively, although a second peak of activity was found at pH 8. Activity was strongly inhibited by Cu(2+), Mn(2+) and Hg(2+). Analysis by SDS-PAGE, isoelectric focusing and zymography showed that the strain secretes a complex cellulase system comprising several enzymes. Most of these enzymes are alkali-resistant CMCases that remained stable at pH 9 and 65 degrees C for at least 1 h. Cellulose binding assays showed notable differences among the CMCases. While some CMCase bands did not bind Avicel, other bands bound to this polymer and were eluted either with NaCl or by boiling with SDS. Analysis by two-dimensional electrophoresis showed that the band eluted by SDS boiling contained at least 4 different polypeptides. The complex set of cellulases produced by the strain, and their activity and stability at alkaline pH and a high temperature indicate that both the isolated strain and the cellulases identified are good candidates for biotechnological applications involving cellulose modification.
18456316	Complex formations between debranched waxy rice starch (DBS) and fatty acids (FA) of different hydrocarbon chain lengths (8:0, 10:0, 12:0, 14:0, 16:0, and 18:0) were studied in an aqueous solution by measuring the blue colour stained with iodine. The objective of this study was to understand the effects of the solubility and hydrophobicity of guest molecules (FA) on the complex formation with DBS. Lauric acid (12:0) displayed the greatest complex forming ability with DBS by showing the least blue colour developed with iodine. The effect of pH (3-7) on the DBS/FA complex formation was evaluated by measuring the iodine-scanning spectra of the mixture. Short-chain FA (8:0) displayed less complex formation at pH>or=5, above the pK(a) of fatty acid (approximately 4.8), which suggested that the charge formation of the short-chain FA caused a lower partitioning of the FA into the hydrophobic cavity of the DBS single helix. On the contrary, FA of 10:0-18:0 displayed an increased complex formation at pH>5, which could be attributed to increased solubility of these longer-chain FA at a dissociated and ionized form. The hydrocarbon chain length of the FA had an important impact on the extent of the complex formation. A FA that had a shorter hydrocarbon chain was more soluble in an aqueous solution and more readily formed a complex with DBS. At pH 6 and 7 (above the pK(a)), 10:0 formed less inclusion complexes with DBS than did 12:0. Iodine-scanning spectra showed that the absorbances of all iodine-stained DBS/FA solutions at higher wavelength were substantially lower than that of the iodine-stained DBS alone, suggesting that FA preferentially formed inclusion complexes with DBS of longer chains.
18457908	This study investigates As accumulation and tolerance of the aquatic fern Azolla. Fifty strains of Azolla showed a large variation in As accumulation. The highest- and lowest-accumulating ferns among the 50 strains were chosen for further investigations. Azolla caroliniana accumulated two times more As than Azolla filiculoides owing to a higher influx velocity for arsenate. A. filiculoides was more resistant to external arsenate due to a lower uptake. Both strains showed a similar degree of tolerance to internal As. Arsenate and arsenite were the dominant As species in both Azolla strains, with methylated As species accounting for <5% of the total As. A. filiculoides had a higher proportion of arsenite than A. caroliniana. Both strains effluxed more arsenate than arsenite, and the amount of As efflux was proportional to the amount of As accumulation. The potential of growing Azolla in paddy fields to reduce As transfer from soil and water to rice should be further evaluated.
18457910	Lactoferrin and lysozyme are important proteins of the human innate immune system. These proteins are found in breast milk and have been associated with improved infant health. Recombinant human apo-lactoferrin (apo-rhLF), 1800 and 180mg/kg bw/day, and recombinant human lysozyme (rhLZ), 360 and 36mg/kg bw/day, were orally administered to Wistar rats for 28 days. Apo-rhLF and rhLZ were expressed in rice grain, extracted, purified; the lactoferrin was iron desaturated. The animals were examined for evidence of toxicity; there were no deaths and in-life physical signs were normal. Transient differences in mean food consumption occurred in high dose apo-rhLF and low dose LZ females at week three. There were no biologically significant differences in hematological or clinical chemistry parameters. Necropsy results were normal and microscopic evaluation showed no treatment related changes in animals dosed with 1800mg/kg/day apo-rhLF or 360mg/kg/day rhLZ. The results of the 28-day oral administration demonstrate a lack of toxicity of apo-rhLF and rhLZ in rats. There were no treatment related, toxicologically relevant changes in clinical signs, growth, food consumption, hematology, clinical chemistry, organ weight and pathology. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) is greater than 1800mg/kg/day for apo-rhLF and 360mg/kg/day for rhLZ.
18459320	Improper cleaning of the water storage tank resulted in a toxic concentration of sodium in drinking water in a commercial turkey flock. Within the first week after placement 40% of the birds in the flock died. Clinically, poults were depressed and weak, huddled together, and reluctant to walk. At necropsy the birds had crops and gizzards filled with rice hulls, moderately swollen livers, distended gall bladders, and congested lungs. Neither ascites nor round heart was observed. The major microscopic lesion was multifocal symmetrical malacia of brain and spinal cord. Laboratory results revealed a high concentration of sodium in water (2340 mg/liter). The concentration of sodium in brain and liver ranged from 1870 to 2680 (mean = 2185; SD = 321.5) mg/liter wet weight and from 1810 to 2360 (mean = 2191.67; SD = 193.2) mg/liter wet weight, respectively, whereas the normal expected sodium concentration in the brain and liver tissues from young turkeys (< 7 days old) that were submitted for other causes averaged 1233 and 983 mg/liter wet weight, respectively. Based on the histological and toxicological results, a diagnosis of salt poisoning was made. This case investigation demonstrated that sodium analysis of brain and liver are diagnostically useful when confirming sodium poisoning in young turkeys.
18459384	The Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), is an invasive species that originated from Mexico, and it is threatening to cause major economic losses to sugarcane, Saccharum spp., and rice, Oryza sativa L., industries in Louisiana. The insect is expected to reach sugarcane and rice production areas in Louisiana by 2008, and infest all of Louisiana sugarcane and rice industries by 2035. When all sugarcane in Louisiana becomes infested, annual yield losses of $220 million would be expected for a cultivar of comparable susceptibility to LCP 85-384 (assuming this cultivar is planted on 100% of the production area). This also assumes the use of the current practice of rainfed production and one application of insecticide, which is presently used by farmers in Louisiana. Irrigation with 30 cm of water is predicted to reduce estimated losses by 29%, whereas four applications of a biorational insecticide such as tebufenozide are expected to reduce the loss in revenue by 53%. The use of the resistant 'HoCP 85-845' would reduce the projected loss in revenue by 24%. Combining all three management tactics on sugarcane, anticipated net loss in revenue would decrease by 66%. The rice industry in Louisiana is projected to suffer from a loss in revenue of $45 million when the entire state is infested. A 77% reduction in loss in revenue is expected with one application of lambda-cyhalothrin. A quarantine on east Texas sugarcane is estimated to save the Louisiana industry between $1.1 billion and $3.2 billion (depending on management) during the time needed for the insect to fully invade the state's sugarcane and rice producing area by natural migration rather than by accidental introduction. The rapid deployment of appropriate management tactics will have a key role in reducing the anticipated economic impact of E. loftini once it becomes a pest in Louisiana sugarcane and rice.
18459402	Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) is a typical vascular feeder, primarily sucking the phloem sap of host plants. Its feeding on rice, Oryza sativa L., plants changes the pattern of allocation of assimilates between roots and shoots, and the root:shoot (R/S) ratio of assimilates is often measured as an index of physiological responses to N. lugens. The current study investigated changes in the R/S ratio of biomass, sucrose, and soluble sugar contents of rice plants in a susceptible variety (TN1) and a resistant variety (Xieyou 963). The results demonstrated that root and shoot biomasses in the two varieties linearly decreased with the increase of N. lugens infestation density. However, the relationship between changes in the R/ S ratio ofbiomass and N. lugens density differed between rice varieties, with the R/S increasing with infestation density in TN1 and decreasing in Xieyou 963. Sucrose and soluble sugar contents and their R/S values were also significantly different between the two varieties. Compared with the control that was not infested by N. lugens, the R/S values of sucrose and soluble sugar at 3 days after infestation (DAI) increased but decreased at 6 DAI in TN1. The R/S values of sucrose and soluble sugar were higher at 6 DAI than those at 3 DAI in TN1, whereas these values were lower at 6 DAI than at 3 DAI in Xieyou 963. These contrasting results suggest that physiological responses to N. lugens infestation differ between the susceptible and tolerant rice varieties.
18459419	Imidacloprid has been used for many years to control planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) (Homoptera: Delphacidae) in China. To provide resistance assessment for the national insecticide resistance management program, we collected a total of 42 samples of the planthoppers from 27 locations covering eight provinces to monitor their dose responses and susceptibility changes to imidacloprid over an 11-yr period (1996-2006). Results showed that most field populations maintained susceptibility from 1996 to 2003 except for a population from Guilin, Guangxi, in 1997, which showed a low level of resistance to imidacloprid. However, surveys conducted in 2005 indicated that 16 populations from six provinces quickly developed resistance with resistance ratios ranging from 79 to 811. The data collected in 2006 revealed that the resistance levels in 12 populations collected from seven different provinces decreased slightly (RR = 107-316), except the Tongzhou population (Jiangsu Province), which developed 625-fold resistance. Dominant and intensive use of imidacloprid in a wide range of rice, Oryza savita L., growing areas might be a driving force for the resistance development. Migration of the insect also significantly boosted the resistance levels due to extensive and intensive use of imidacloprid in emigrating areas and continuous postmigration sprays of the chemical. In addition, laboratory resistance selection using imidacloprid showed that resistance ratio increased to 14-fold after 27 generations, suggesting that quick resistance development might be associated with more frequent applications of the insecticide in recent years.
18459427	Varietal mutants can be useful for developing durable resistance, understanding categories of resistance, and identifying candidate genes involved in defense responses. We used mutants of rice 'IR64' to isolate new sources of resistance to the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae). We compared two mutants that showed a gain and loss of resistance to N. lugens, to determine the categories of resistance to this pest. Under choice tests, female planthoppers avoided settling and laid fewer eggs on the resistant mutant 'D518' than on the susceptible mutant D1131, susceptible check 'TN1', and wild-type IR64, indicating that antixenosis was the resistance category. Similarly, under no-choice conditions, planthoppers laid 29% fewer eggs in D518 than in IR64, but they oviposited more in 'D1131' and TN1. Honeydew excretion was greater on D1131 seedlings but slightly lower on D518 than on IR64. Nymphal survival and adult female weight did not differ among rice cultivars. D518 showed higher tolerance of N. lugens infestations than IR64. Genetic analysis of the F1, F2, and F3 populations derived from D518 x IR64 revealed that resistance in D518 is dominant and controlled by a single gene. Despite the variation in resistance to N. lugens, both mutants and IR64 performed similarly in the field. The mutant D518 is a new source of durable resistance to N. lugens, mainly due to enhanced antixenosis to female hoppers for settling and oviposition.
18459431	We investigated the suitability of 11 diets as culture media for the psocids Lepinotus reticulatus Enderlein (Psocoptera: Trogiidae) and Liposcelis entomophila (Enderlein) (Psocoptera: Liposcelididae). The culture media comprised six diets made of plain cereals, namely, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), corn (Zea mays L.), milo Sorghum bicolor (L.), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), oats (Avena sativa L.), and rice (Oryza sativa L.), and five artificial diets. We found that, with the exception of corn, L. reticulatus population increase was greater on plain cereal diets than on artificial diets, and the greatest population growth was on oats. There was an inverse relationship between L. reticulatus population growth and diet compactness. L. entomophila populations grew fastest on wheat, barley, and a mixture of cracked wheat, rice krispies, and brewer's yeast (97:2:1, wt:wt). The proportion of females was greater in diets that were less suitable for L. entomophila population growth compared with that in the more suitable diets. Diet compactness had a weak effect on L. entomophila population growth. This study also has established the relative level of suitability of damaged wheat, corn, milo, barley, oats, and rice to L. reticulatus and L. entomophila.
18459982	Generally, bioactive small peptides are derived from precursors with signal sequences at their N-terminal ends, which undergo modification and proteolysis through a secretory pathway. By contrast, small peptides encoded in short open reading frames (sORF) lack signaling sequences and therefore are released into the cytoplasm, which may result in their having functions distinct from those of secreted peptides. Several small peptides encoded by sORF are involved in the morphogenesis of multicellular organisms. POLARIS, ROTUNDIFOLIA4, and Enod40 are plant peptides that are involved, respectively, in root formation, leaf shape control, and cortical cell division during nodule formation. Brick1/HSPC300 is an evolutionarily conserved component of the actin reorganization complex. polished rice/tarsal-less and mille-pattes encode related small peptides that are required for epithelial morphogenesis in Drosophila and segmentation in Tribolium. There are only a few known examples of small peptides encoded by sORF, and their molecular functions are still largely obscure. Nevertheless, an increasing number of sORF genes is being identified, and further research should reveal their roles in novel molecular mechanisms underlying developmental events.
18460121	The objectives of this study were to characterize volatile compounds and to determine the characteristic aromas associated with impact compounds in 4 fish sauces using solid-phase micro-extraction, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, Osme, and gas chromatography olfactometry (SPME-Osme-GCO) coupled with Stevens' Power Law. Compounds were separated using GCMS and GCO and were identified with the mass spectral database, aroma perceived at the sniffing port, retention indices, and verification of compounds by authentic standards in the GCMS and GCO. Aromas that were isolated and present in all 4 fish sauce samples at all concentrations included fishy (trimethylamine), pungent and dirty socks (combination of butanoic, pentanoic, hexanoic, and heptanoic acids), cooked rice and buttery popcorn (2,6-dimethyl pyrazine), and sweet and cotton candy (benzaldehyde). All fish sauces contained the same aromas as determined by GCO and GCMS (verified using authentic standard compounds), but the odor intensity associated with each compound or group of compounds was variable for different fish sauce samples. Stevens' Power Law exponents were also determined using this analytical technique, but exponents were not consistent for the same compounds that were found in all fish sauces. Stevens' Power Law exponents ranged from 0.14 to 0.37, 0.24 to 0.34, 0.09 to 0.21, and 0.10 to 0.35 for dirty socks, fishy, buttery popcorn, and sweet aromas, respectively. This demonstrates that there is variability in Stevens' Power Law exponents for odorants within fish sauce samples.
18460123	A commercial long-grain rice flour (CRF) and the flours made by using a pin mill and the Udy mill from the same batch of broken second-head white long-grain rice were evaluated for their particle size and functional properties. The purpose of this study was to compare the commercial rice flour milling method to the pin and Udy milling methods used in our laboratory and pilot plant. The results showed that pin milled flour had more uniform particle size than the other 2 milled flours. The chalky kernels found in broken white milled rice were pulverized more into fines in both Udy milled flour and CRF than in the pin milled flour. The excessive amount of fines in flours affected their functional properties, for example, WSI and their potential usage in the novel foods such as rice breads (RB). The RB made from CRF collapsed more than loaves made from pin milled Cypress long-grain flours.
18460136	This study aimed to identify proteolytic bacteria from Thai traditional fermented foods and investigate their allergenic reducing potentials to wheat and milk allergens. Nine bacteria were isolated from fermented foods as follows: fermented soybean seeds (Thua Nao), fermented soybean paste (Thua Nao), wheat flour dough of steamed stuffed bun (Sa La Pao), and soaked rice from Thai fermented rice-noodle (Kha Nhom Jeen) processing. Both phenotypic and genotypic identifications were used in this study. It was found that all isolates were Gram-positive rods. Seven isolates were matched and identified as Bacillus subtilis by both techniques, and the remaining 2 isolates were phenotypically and genotypically identified as B. licheniformis and B. subtilis, respectively. The concentrated crude enzyme of B. subtilis DB and SR could reduce allergenicity of gliadin by hydrolyzing the allergenic gliadin fragments detected by immunoblotting. Furthermore, the enzyme of B. subtilis DB could also reduce allergenicity of beta-lactoglobulin (beta-LG) detected by hydrolyzing the major allergenic epitope of beta-LG at Gln(35)-Ser(36) position. B. subtilis DB and SR can be applied for the production of hypoallergenic wheat flour or milk food products.
18460786	Cyclic diterpenoids are commonly biosynthesized from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGDP) through the formation of carbon skeletons by specific cyclases and subsequent chemical modifications, such as oxidation, reduction, methylation, and glucosidation. A variety of diterpenoids are produced in higher plants and fungi. Rice produces four classes of diterpene phytoalexins, phytocassanes A to E, oryzalexins A to F, oryzalexin S, and momilactones A and B. The six diterpene cyclase genes involved in the biosynthesis of these phytoalexins were identified and characterized. Fusicoccin A was produced by the phytopathogenic Phomopsis amygdali and served as a plant H(+)-ATPase activator. A PaFS, encoding a fungal diterpene synthase responsible for fusicoccin biosynthesis, was isolated. The PaFS is an unusual chimeric diterpene synthase that possesses not only terpene cyclase activity (the formation of fusicoccadiene, a biosynthetic precursor of fusicoccin A), but also prenyltransferase activity (the formation of GGDP). Thus, we identified a unique multifunctional diterpene synthase family in fungi.
18461373	A variety of fermentation products, such as foods containing probiotic bacteria, black rice vinegar (kurosu), soy sauce (shoyu), soybean-barley paste (miso), natto and tempeh, are sold in food stores in Japan. These fermented food products are produced by traditional methods that exploit mixed cultures of various non-toxic microorganisms. These microorganisms include lactic acid bacteria, acetic acid bacteria, sake yeast, koji molds and natto bacteria. Many traditional fermented foods have been studied and their effects on metabolism and/or immune system have been demonstrated in animal and/or human cells. This review summarizes the scientific basis for the effects of these traditional food products, which are currently produced commercially in Japan.
18461470	Nonspecific lipid transfer protein (nsLTP) is usually basic and secreted low-molecular-mass protein in plants. The 3-D structure of nsLTP1 resembles that of elicitin produced by the plant pathogen Phytophthora cryptogea, which can bind to the plant plasma membrane putative receptor and activate the downstream responses. It is inferred that nsLTP1 may have similar binding sites on the plasma membranes. In this work, rice recombinant protein TRX-nsLTP110 labeled with (125)I was shown to bind to rice plasma membrane preparations in a saturable curve, with an apparent K(d) of 13.6 nM and B(max) of 150 fmol/mg proteins. Competition experiments revealed that the binding of TRX-nsLTP110 was specific, in contrast to the nonspecific binding of the fusion tag thioredoxin. Protease treatment assay showed that the binding sites were proteinaceous. Our results suggest that the binding sites of nsLTPs on plasma membranes may be ubiquitous in the plant kingdom. They may be competed out from the binding sites under pathogen attack, supporting a role for nsLTP1 in host defense response to pathogens.
18462871	This paper examines the effectiveness of 10 additives toward improving SO2 sorption capacities (SSC) of rice husk ash (RHA)/lime (CaO) sorbent. The additives examined are NaOH, CaCl2, LiCl, NaHCO3, NaBr, BaCl2, KOH, K2HPO4, FeCl3 and MgCl2. Most of the additives tested increased the SSC of RHA/CaO sorbent, whereby NaOH gave highest SSC (30mg SO2/g sorbent) at optimum concentration (0.25mol/l) compared to other additives examined. The SSC of RHA/CaO sorbent prepared with NaOH addition was also increases from 17.2 to 39.5mg SO2/g sorbent as the water vapor increases from 0% RH to 80% RH. This is probably due to the fact that most of additives tested act as deliquescent material, and its existence increases the amount of water collected on the surface of the sorbent, which played an important role in the reaction between the dry-type sorbent and SO2. Although most of the additives were shown to have positive effect on the SSC of the RHA/CaO sorbent, some were found to have negative or insignificant effect. Thus, this study demonstrates that proper selection of additives can improve the SSC of RHA/CaO sorbent significantly.
18462879	The excessive release of wastewater into the environment is a major concern worldwide. Adsorption is the one of the most effective technique for treatment of wastewater. In this work activated carbon prepared from rice husk has been used as an adsorbent. In the present investigation a three phase modified multi-stage bubble column reactor (MMBCR) has been designed to remove lead and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) from wastewater by means of its adsorption onto the surface of activated rice husk. The multi-staging has been achieved by hydrodynamically induced continuous bubble generation, breakup and regeneration. Under optimum conditions, maximum lead and BOD reduction achieved using activated rice husk was 77.15% and 19.05%, respectively. Results showed MMBCR offered appreciated potential benefits for lead removal from wastewater and BOD removal, even this extent of removal is encouraging and the MMBCR can be used a pretreatment unit before subjecting the wastewater to biological treatment.
18463702	Reconstructing cellular signaling networks and understanding how they work are major endeavors in cell biology. The scale and complexity of these networks, however, render their analysis using experimental biology approaches alone very challenging. As a result, computational methods have been developed and combined with experimental biology approaches, producing powerful tools for the analysis of these networks. These computational methods mostly fall on either end of a spectrum of model parameterization. On one end is a class of structural network analysis methods; these typically use the network connectivity alone to generate hypotheses about global properties. On the other end is a class of dynamic network analysis methods; these use, in addition to the connectivity, kinetic parameters of the biochemical reactions to predict the network's dynamic behavior. These predictions provide detailed insights into the properties that determine aspects of the network's structure and behavior. However, the difficulty of obtaining numerical values of kinetic parameters is widely recognized to limit the applicability of this latter class of methods. Several researchers have observed that the connectivity of a network alone can provide significant insights into its dynamics. Motivated by this fundamental observation, we present the signaling Petri net, a non-parametric model of cellular signaling networks, and the signaling Petri net-based simulator, a Petri net execution strategy for characterizing the dynamics of signal flow through a signaling network using token distribution and sampling. The result is a very fast method, which can analyze large-scale networks, and provide insights into the trends of molecules' activity-levels in response to an external stimulus, based solely on the network's connectivity. We have implemented the signaling Petri net-based simulator in the PathwayOracle toolkit, which is publicly available at http://bioinfo.cs.rice.edu/pathwayoracle. Using this method, we studied a MAPK1,2 and AKT signaling network downstream from EGFR in two breast tumor cell lines. We analyzed, both experimentally and computationally, the activity level of several molecules in response to a targeted manipulation of TSC2 and mTOR-Raptor. The results from our method agreed with experimental results in greater than 90% of the cases considered, and in those where they did not agree, our approach provided valuable insights into discrepancies between known network connectivities and experimental observations.
18463946	A full-length cDNA of the OgPAE1 gene encoding the alpha5 subunit of the 20S proteasome was isolated from wild rice (Oryza grandiglumis) treated by wounding or with a fungal elicitor. The deduced amino acid sequence of OgPAE1 comprises 237 amino acids (25.99 kDa), and shows 94.5% homology with Arabidopsis thaliana AtPAE1. Expression of OgPAE1 is regulated by defense-related signaling chemicals such as cantharidin, endothall and jasmonic acid. Overexpression of OgPAE1 in A. thaliana leads to resistance to the fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea by lowering disease rate and size of necrotic lesions, and by less penetration and colonization of fungal hyphae. The results indicate that the 20S proteasome from wild rice is involved in the B. cinerea defense pathway via an as yet undetermined mechanism.
18464041	Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT) is the key enzyme that converts adenine to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) in the purine salvage pathway. It was found that several different forms of APRT gene exist in plants, but no APRT gene in maize has been reported up to now. In this study, a novel maize APRT gene was cloned and characterized through a combination of bioinformatic, RT-PCR and RACE strategies. The full length of APRT cDNA sequence is 1202 nucleotides, with an ORF encoding 214 amino acid residues. Alignment of the deduced protein with that of other plant APRT genes indicates that the new gene is the form 2 of maize APRT, thus it was named ZmAPT2. Through basic local alignment search tool, search in the genomic survey sequence database of MaizeGDB, the putative genomic sequence of ZmAPT2 was obtained. Comparison of the cDNA and genomic sequence of the ZmAPT2 gene revealed that it contained seven exons and six introns. The locations of the introns within the maize ZmAPT2 coding region were consistent with those in the previously isolated APRTs of arabidopsis and rice. RT-PCR analysis showed that ZmAPRT was constitutively expressing in different organs under high temperature and salt stresses. Southern blot analysis indicated that at least three APRT genes existed in maize genome. These results confirmed that the novel maize ZmAPT2 gene was truly identified, and its potential role in maize growth and development was discussed.
18464598	The cloned cDNA sequence of rice (Oryza sativa L. Cpslo17) chitinase gene Oschi was cloned, (which was registered in GenBank, the accession number: EU045451) ligated with the expression vector pGEX-4T-1, and transformed into E. coli BL21(DE3). The expression of Oschi was induced by IPTG, and the conditions were optimized. After purification the in vitro activity of Oschi chitinase was analyzed, and the results indicated that it could efficiently degrade chitin.
18464639	To investigate the feasibility of using exogenous salicylic acid (SA) to regulate the allelopathic weed suppression of rice, this paper studied the effects of different concentrations exogenous SA on the weed-suppression and physiological-biochemical characteristics of allelopathic rice PI312777, and the relative expression quantity of gene ZB8 in the rice by real time quantitative RT-PCR (FQ-PCR). The results showed that exogenous SA induced the enhancement of the allelopathic potential of donor rice in suppressing target weed plants, and this inducing effect was SA dose and treatment time dependent. After foliar spraying SA, the inhibitory effect of PI312777 on barnyardgrass increased significantly, and the root vigor and superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) activities of PI312777 increased, while its catalase (CAT) activity decreased. The reverse was true for the target weed barnyardgrass. At the same time, the phenylalanine ammonialyase (PAL) activity of PI312777 increased significantly, leading to an increase of the total content of phenols. Among the test concentrations of SA, 0.2 mmol x L(-1) had the best inducing effect, under which, the relative expression quantity of ZB8 increased first and decreased then, with a peak at 24 hours after treatment.
18464640	By the method of statistics, this paper approached the quantitative relationships between leaf total nitrogen concentration (LNC) and canopy reflectance spectra of rice, based on the data from 5-year field experiments involving different varieties and nitrogen fertilization rates. The results showed that the LNC had higher correlations with the key spectral parameters of two bands than of single band. The relative, differential, and normalized difference vegetation indices (RVI, DVI, NDVI) of the bands in near infrared (760-1,220 nm) and visible light 510 nm, 560 nm, 680 nm and 710 nm all showed significantly positive correlations to LNC, and NDVI showed the best. All the parameters having significant correlations with LNC were selected to compare the R2 and SE in the regression equations with LNC, which confirmed that the NDVI of R1220 and R710 was the best parameter for predicting the LNC. The quantitative equation LNC = 3.2708 x NDVI (1220, 710) + 0.8654 was tested by the data from other three field experiments with different rice cultivars, water conditions and nitrogen fertilization rates, and the estimated R2, slope, and RMSE were ranged in 0.674-0.862, 0.908-1.010 and 11.315%-19.491%, respectively, indicating a good fit between the predicted and observed values of LNCs, which suggested that this model was feasible for predicting the LNC of rice under different cultivation conditions.
18464641	A greenhouse incubation test was conducted to study the effects of amendment with different amounts of maize and rice straws on the soil pH, CO2, and exchangeable NH4+ under continuous flooded condition. The results showed that in a near-neutral soil, straw amendment could decrease soil pH, with a significant difference (P < 0.05) between the treatments of 4 g straws x kg(-1) and control (CK), but no significant difference (P > 0.05) between the treatments of 1 g straws x kg(-1) and CK. The CO2 content in soil solution increased with increasing rate of straw amendment, with the peak value being 35.9% and 31.9% (v/v) in the treatments of 1 g maize straw x kg(-1) and 1 g rice straw x kg(-1), respectively. These two treatments had significantly higher CO2 contents (P < 0.05) than CK, but no obvious difference between themselves (P > 0.05). In treatments 4 g maize straw x kg(-1) and 4 g rice straw x kg(-1), the peak value of CO2 content was 54.2% and 41.8% (v/v), respectively, being significantly higher than that of CK (P < 0.01), and significantly different between themselves (P < 0.05). Under non-N fertilization, soil NH4+-N concentration decreased after straw amendment, and the increase of the amendment rate caused a further decrease of soil NH4+-N concentration, with a significant difference (P < 0.05) between the doses of 1 and 4 g straw x kg(-1). Under N fertilization, soil NH4+-N concentration increased after 1 g straw x kg(-1) amendment, but decreased after amendment with 4 g straw x kg(-1). No significant differences were observed between maize straw and rice straw amendment regardless with or without N fertilization (P > 0.05).
18464757
18464818	The thermosensitive genetic male sterility (TGMS) system is considered to be a more efficient alternative to the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) system for hybrid rice. An F2 population from a cross between a TGMS mutant line (IR32364TGMS) and IR68 was used to map the TGMS gene tms3(t). Fertile and sterile bulks were constructed following the classification of F2 plants into true breeding sterile, fertile, and segregating fertile plants based on F3 family studies. From the survey of 389 arbitrary primers in bulked segregant analysis, four RAPD markers were identified in which three, OPF182600, OPB19750, and OPAA7550, were linked to tms3(t) in repulsion phase and one, OPAC3640, was linked to tms3(t) in coupling phase. The tms3(t) gene was flanked by OPF182600 and OPAC3640 on one side and by OPAA7550 and OPB19750 on the other side. All four markers were low-copy sequences and two of them (OPF182600 and OPAC3640) detected polymorphism when the markers were used to probe the genomic blots. Subsequently, OPAC3640 was mapped to the short arm of chromosome 6 using a mapping population available at IRRI. However, no RFLP markers from this region showed linkage to tms3(t) owing to the lack of polymorphism between the parents. All RAPD fragments were cloned and partially sequenced from both ends. Thus, PCR primers can be designed to develop PCR markers for marker-assisted breeding to facilitate the transfer of tms3(t) from one genetic background to another.
18467323	The shortage of strong endosperm-specific expression promoters for driving the expression of recombinant protein genes in cereal endosperm is a major limitation in obtaining the required level and pattern of expression. Six promoters of seed storage glutelin genes (GluA-1, GluA-2, GluA-3, GluB-3, GluB-5, and GluC) were isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) genomic DNA by PCR. Their spatial and temporal expression patterns and expression potential in stable transgenic rice plants were examined with beta-glucuronidase (GUS) used as a reporter gene. All the promoters showed the expected spatial expression within the endosperm. The GluA-1, GluA-2, and GluA-3 promoters directed GUS expression mainly in the outer portion (peripheral region) of the endosperm. The GluB-5 and GluC promoters directed GUS expression in the whole endosperm, with the latter expressed almost evenly throughout the whole endosperm, a feature different from that of other rice glutelin gene promoters. The GluB-3 promoter directed GUS expression solely in aleurone and subaleurone layers. Promoter activities examined during seed maturation showed that the GluC promoter had much higher activity than the other promoters. These promoters are ideal candidates for achieving gene expression for multiple purposes in monocot endosperm but avoid promoter homology-based gene silencing. The GluC promoter did not contain the endosperm specificity-determining motifs GCN4, AACA, and the prolamin-box, which suggests the existence of additional regulatory mechanism in determining endosperm specificity.
18467865	To speed up the conversion of rice straw into feeds in a low-temperature region, a start culture used for ensiling rice straw at low temperature was selected by continuous enrichment cultivation. During the selection, the microbial source for enrichment was rice straw and soil from two places in Northeast China. Lab-scale rice straw fermentation at 10 degrees C verified, compared with the commercial inocculant, that the selected start culture lowered the pH of the fermented rice straw more rapidly and produced more lactic acid. The results from denatured gradient gel eletrophoresis showed that the selected start culture could colonize into the rice straw fermentation system. To analyze the composition of the culture, a 16S clone library was constructed. Sequencing results showed that the culture mainly consisted of two bacterial species. One (A) belonged to Lactobacillus and another (B) belonged to Leuconostoc. To make clear the roles of composition microbes in the fermented system, quantitative PCR was used. For species A, the DNA mass increased continuously until sixteen days of the fermentation, which occupied 65%. For species B, the DNA mass amounted to 5.5% at six days of the fermentation, which was the maximum relative value during the fermentation. To the authors' best knowledge, this is the first report on ensiling rice straw with a selected starter at low temperature and investigation of the fermented characteristics.
18468048	Sushi is a traditional Japanese food, mostly consisting of rice and raw fish. Fish is considered a healthy food, but as with other animal products, consumption of raw muscle incurs potential health risks such as ingestion of pathogenic bacteria or parasites. In this study, 250 sushi samples were analyzed for their microbiological status and the prevalence of pathogenic bacteria. A comparison was made between frozen sushi from supermarkets and fresh sushi from sushi bars. Aerobic mesophilic bacteria counts differed for sushi from these two sources, with means of 2.7 log CFU/g for frozen sushi and 6.3 log CFU/g for fresh sushi. The prevalence of Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus was higher in the fresh samples. Salmonella was found in four (1.6%) of the sushi samples, and Listeria monocytogenes was found in three (1.2%) of the samples. These results indicate that the microbiological quality of industrially processed sushi is higher than that of freshly prepared sushi. The quality of freshly prepared sushi strongly depends on the skills and habits of the preparation cooks, which may vary.
18468496	New methods involving high-performance liquid chromatography/inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry were examined for the determination of phenylarsenic compounds derived from chemical warfare agents. Several methods were examined for the separation of diphenylarsinic acid (DPAA), phenylarsonic acid, phenylmethylarsinic acid (PMAA), phenyldimethylarsine oxide, and diphenylmethylarsine oxide. Analysis of the urine samples of the patients exposed to phenylarsenic compounds indicated that the main phenylarsenic components were DPAA and PMAA; moreover, some unknown arsenicals, which were also found in contaminated groundwater and rice samples, were also detected.
18468508	Abscisic acid (ABA) is a hormone that regulates plant development and adaptation to environmental stresses. Protein phosphorylation has been recognized as an important mechanism for ABA signaling. However, the target phosphoproteins regulated by ABA are still largely unknown. Here, we report the identification of ABA-regulated phosphoproteins in rice using proteomic approaches. Six ABA-regulated phosphoproteins were identified as G protein beta subunit-like protein, ascorbate peroxidase, manganese superoxide dismutase, triosephosphate isomerase, putative Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporter regulator protein, and glyoxysomal malate dehydrogenase. These results provide new insight into the regulatory mechanism for some ABA signaling proteins and implicate several previously unrecognized proteins in ABA action.
18468926	Sagittaria trifolia L. is a perennial, erect herb that is confined to ponds, rice fields, ditches, and freshwater wetlands. Using chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) atpB-rbcL intergenic spacer sequences, we studied the phylogeographic pattern and demographic history of S. trifolia with 108 samples from 42 populations representing the entire geographic range in China. Twenty-seven haplotypes were characterized and two of them were widely distributed in the populations. In the minimum-spanning network, all tip haplotypes were unique to a particular population, while the interior nodes represented widespread haplotypes. Nested clade analysis (NCA) of cpDNA haplotypes indicated that long distance dispersal characterized the post-glacial recolonization of S. trifolia in China. No specific refugia areas were suggested because genetic differentiation was low among the sampled regions and among populations within regions although a large number of the haplotypes were unique to a single population. The present data support that the unique haplotypes in individual population most likely represent recent mutational derivatives after long distance dispersal rather than the relics in refugia. These results for S. trifolia represent the first phylogeographic analysis of a widespread marsh herb in China and support the importance of long distance dispersal events in the post-glacial migrations of plants.
18469063	The effects of diets with different starch sources on the total tract apparent digestibility and glucose and insulin responses in cats were investigated. Six experimental diets consisting of 35% starch were extruded, each containing one of the following ingredients: cassava flour, brewers rice, corn, sorghum, peas, or lentils. The experiment was carried out on 36 cats with 6 replications per diet in a completely randomized block design. The brewers rice diet offered greater DM, OM, and GE digestibility than the sorghum, corn, lentil, and pea diets (P < 0.05). For starch digestibility, the brewers rice diet had greater values (98.6%) than the sorghum (93.9%), lentil (95.2%), and pea (96.3%) diets (P < 0.05); however, starch digestibility was >93% for all the diets, proving that despite the low carbohydrate content of carnivorous diets, cats can efficiently digest this nutrient when it is properly processed into kibble. Mean and maximum glucose concentration and area under the glucose curve were greater for the corn-based diet than the cassava flour, sorghum, lentil, and pea diets (P < 0.05). The corn-based diets led to greater values for the mean glucose incremental concentration (10.2 mg/dL), maximum glucose incremental concentration (24.8 mg/dL), and area under the incremental glucose curve (185.5 mg.dL(-1).h(-1)) than the lentil diet (2.9 mg/dL, 3.1 mg/dL, and -40.4 mg.dL(-1).h(-1), respectively; P < 0.05). When compared with baseline values, only the corn diet stimulated an increase in the glucose response, occurring at 4 and 10 h postmeal (P < 0.05). The corn-based diet resulted in greater values for maximum incremental insulin concentration and area under the incremental insulin curve than the lentil-based diet (P < 0.05). However, plasma insulin concentrations rose in relation to the basal values for cats fed corn, sorghum, pea, and brewers rice diets (P < 0.05). Variations in diet digestibility and postprandial response can be explained by differences in the chemical composition of the starch source, including fiber content and granule structure, and also differences in the chemical compositions of the diets. The data suggest that starch has less of an effect on the cat postprandial glucose and insulin responses than on those of dogs and humans. This can be explained by the metabolic peculiarities of felines, which may slow and prolong starch digestion and absorption, leading to the delayed, less pronounced effects on their blood responses.
18469266	Few studies have examined the long-term effect of habitual diet on risks of incident diabetes, coronary heart disease, and mortality. We analyzed the prospective relation of dietary patterns with incident chronic disease and mortality during 15 y of follow-up in the Whitehall II study. We conducted a prospective analysis (106,633 person-years at risk) among men and women (n = 7731) with a mean age of 50 y at the time of dietary assessment (127-item food-frequency questionnaire). Coronary death or nonfatal myocardial infarction and incident diabetes were verified by record tracing and oral-glucose-tolerance tests. Cluster analysis identified 4 dietary patterns at baseline. The patterns were termed unhealthy (white bread, processed meat, fries, and full-cream milk; n = 2665), sweet (white bread, biscuits, cakes, processed meat, and high-fat dairy products; n = 1042), Mediterranean-like (fruit, vegetables, rice, pasta, and wine; n = 1361), and healthy (fruit, vegetables, whole-meal bread, low-fat dairy, and little alcohol; n = 2663). Compared with the unhealthy pattern, the healthy pattern reduced the risk of coronary death or nonfatal myocardial infarction and diabetes; hazard ratios (95% CI) were 0.71 (0.51, 0.98) and 0.74 (0.58, 0.94), respectively, after adjustment for age, sex, ethnicity, dietary energy misreporting, social position, smoking status, and leisure-time physical activity. Dietary pattern was not associated with all-cause mortality. Residual confounding by socioeconomic factors was unlikely to account for the observed dietary effects. The healthy eating pattern reduced risks of diabetes and major coronary events. Such dietary patterns offer considerable health benefits to individuals and contribute to public health.
18469881	The origin and genomic constitution of the tetraploid perennial species Dasypyrum hordeaceum (2n = 4x = 28) and its phylogenetic relationships with the annual diploid Dasypyrum villosum (2n = 2x = 14) have been investigated by comparing the two genomes using different methods. There is no apparent homology between the conventional or Giemsa C-banded karyotypes of the two Dasypyrum species, nor can the karyotype of D. hordeaceum be split up into two similar sets. Polymorphism within several chromosome pairs was observed in both karyotypes. Cytophotometric determinations of the Feulgen-DNA absorptions showed that the genome size of D. hordeaceum was twice as large as that of D. villosum. Both the cross D. villosum x D. hordeaceum (crossability rate 12.1%) and the reciprocal cross (crossability rate 50.7%) produced plump seeds. Only those from the former cross germinated, producing sterile plants with a phenotype that was intermediate between those of the parents. In these hybrids (2n = 21), an average of 13.77 chromosomes per cell paired at meiotic metaphase I. Trivalents were only rarely observed. Through dot-blot hybridizations, a highly repeated DNA sequence of D. villosum was found not to be represented in the genome of D. hordeaceum. By contrast, very similar restriction patterns were observed when a low-repeated DNA sequence or different single-copy sequences of D. villosum or two sequences in the plastidial DNA of rice were hybridized to Southern blots of the genomic DNAs of the two Dasypyrum species digested with different restriction endonucleases. By analyzing glutamic-oxaloacetic-transaminase, superoxide dismutase, alcohol dehydrogenase, and esterase isozyme systems, it was shown that both Dasypyrum species shared the same phenotypes, which differed from those found in hexaploid wheat. In situ hybridizations using DNA sequences encoding gliadins showed that these genes were located close to the centromere of three pairs of D. villosum chromosomes and that they had the same locations in six pairs of D. hordeaceum chromosomes. We conclude that the autoploid origin of D. hordeaceum from D. villosum, which cannot be defended on the basis of chromosomal traits, is suggested by the other findings obtained by comparing the two genomes. Key words : Dasypyrum hordeaceum, Dasypyrum villosum, phylogenetic relationships.
18469895	Four rice (Oryza sativa L.) deficiencies, involving chromosomes 4 (Df4), 8 (Df8), and 11 (Df11-1, Df11-2), were studied. The deficiencies were induced by means of the pseudodominance technique, i.e., strains carrying one or more recessive marker genes were fertilized with irradiated pollen of a strain carrying normal alleles at corresponding loci. No characteristic morphological features were found in the deficiencies, as compared with the normal F1 plants in the progeny. The deficiencies showed high or complete seed sterility. Genetic and cytological studies indicated deficiencies in chromosomes 4, 8, and 11. The fragment chromosomes in Df4, Df8, and Df11-2 were short, possibly being derived from the heterochromatin regions of the chromosomes, including kinetochores, and the fragment chromosome in Df11-1 was long, with about 75% of the long arm missing. At metaphase I, Df4, Df8, and Df11-2 showed only the chromosome configuration of 11 II (bivalents) + 2I (univalents), and Df11-1 only that of 12 II. It seems that the short fragments tend to stay as univalents in meiosis, probably because of their shortness. On the other hand, long fragments act as normal chromosomes and associate with their homologues. The deficiencies were not transmitted to the progenies, although only a few offspring were examined. By using the induced deficiencies Df4 and Df11-1, two morphological marker genes, lg (liguleless) and la (lazy growth habit), were located on the long arm of chromosomes 4 and 11, respectively. This is the first report in rice utilizing induced chromosome deficiencies to locate a gene on a specific arm of a chromosome. The use of induced deficiencies for studying the structure of the rice genome is discussed. Key words : rice, chromosome, deficiencies, cytology, transmission.
18469902	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) molecular maps have previously been constructed using interspecific crosses or crosses between the two major subspecies: indica and japonica. For japonica breeding programs, however, it would be more suitable to use intrasubspecific crosses. A linkage map of 129 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and 18 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers was developed using 118 F2 plants derived from a cross between two japonica cultivars with high and low seedling vigor, Italica Livorno (IL) and Labelle (LBL), respectively. The map spanned 980.5 cM (Kosambi function) with markers on all 12 rice chromosomes and an average distance of 7.6 cM between markers. Codominant (RFLP) and coupling phase linkages (among RAPDs) accounted for 79% of total map length and 71% of all intervals. This map contained a greater percentage of markers on chromosome 10, the least marked of the 12 rice chromosomes, than other rice molecular maps, but had relatively fewer markers on chromosomes 1 and 2. We used this map to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for four seedling vigor related traits scored on 113 F3 families in a growth chamber slantboard test at 18 degrees C. Two coleoptile, five root, and five mesocotyl length QTLs, each accounting for 9-50% of the phenotypic variation, were identified by interval analysis. Single-point analysis confirmed interval mapping results and detected additional markers significantly influencing each trait. About two-thirds of alleles positive for the putative QTLs were from the high-vigor parent, IL. One RAPD marker (OPAD13720) was associated with a IL allele that accounted for 18.5% of the phenotypic variation for shoot length, the most important determinant of seedling vigor in water-seeded rice. Results indicate that RAPDs are useful for map development and QTL mapping in rice populations with narrow genetic base, such as those derived from crosses among japonica cultivars. Other potential uses of the map are discussed. Key words : QTL mapping, RAPD, RFLP, seedling vigor, japonica, Oryza sativa.
18469913	Five different monosomics of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were obtained by treatment of pollen with gamma irradiation, as a by-product of attempts to determine the cytological loci of certain marker genes, i.e., mature pollen carrying normal alleles at all loci was given gamma rays and used for pollinating strains that were homozygous for recessive marker genes. The monosomics showed distinguishable morphological features and had complete seed sterility. Cytological studies revealed that one monosomic was tertiary, the others primary. The tertiary monosomic was related to chromosome 10. Two primary monosomics for chromosomes 10 and 11 were identified. At metaphase I, the tertiary monosomic showed the chromosome configurations 1 III + 10 II, 11 II + 1 I, and 10 II + 3 I, and all primary ones showed the configuration 11 II + 1 I. All five monosomics showed very poor crossing ability and were not transmitted to the few progenies observed. A few trisomic plants were found in the progenies of a cross between monosomic and normal pollen in one monosomic. This is the first time that many monosomics in rice have been characterized. This information will be useful in studies of rice aneuploidy and cytogenetics. Key words : rice, monosomics, morphology, cytology, transmission, trisomics.
18469946	A group of about 300 evenly distributed DNA markers from a high density RFLP linkage map of rice constructed using an F2 population derived from a japonica variety, Nipponbare, and an indica variety, Kasalath, were used to evaluate gene order and genetic distance in four other rice mapping populations. The purpose of this study was to determine the degree to which information gained from the high density linkage map could be applied to other mapping populations, particularly with regard to its utility in bridging quantitative traits and molecular and physical mapping information. The mapping populations consisted of two F2 populations derived from Dao Ren Qiao/Fl-1084 and Kinandangputi/Fl-1007, recombinant inbred lines from Asominori/IR24, and a backcross population from Sasanishiki/Habataki//Sasanishiki. All DNA markers commonly mapped in the four populations showed the same linkage groups as in the Nipponbare/Kasalath linkage map with conserved linkage order. The genetic distance between markers among the different populations did not vary to a significant level in any of the 12 chromosomes. The differences in some markers could be attributed to the size of the population used in the construction of the linkage maps. Furthermore, the conservation of linkage order found in the distal region of chromosomes 11 and 12 was also confirmed in the RFLP maps based on the four populations of rice. These suggest that any major genetic information from the Nipponbare/Kasalath map can be expected to be approximately the same in other crosses or populations. This high density RFLP linkage map, which is being utilized in constructing a physical map of rice, can be very useful in interpreting genome structure with great accuracy in other populations. Key words : linkage map, japonica, indica, gene order, genetic distance.
18469956	We have used DNA markers from a high density molecular map of rice (Oryza sativa) to tag a single gene expressed as a flower morphogenesis mutation, extra glume (eg). Using an F2 population segregating for eg, obtained from a cross between IR24 and F136 (eg/eg), we constructed a partial molecular map and located eg relative to restriction fragment length polymorphism markers. The region between two markers appears to span the eg locus on rice chromosome 1 and extends to a genetic length of 3.8 cM. The yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) library obtained from rice variety 'Nipponbare', which carries the wild-type allele of eg, was screened to completely cover the locus by overlapping YAC clones. The eg allele should be contained in two overlapping YACs. YAC size determination by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis indicated that this region has a physical length of approximately 400 kb. We anticipate that the tagging of eg in a relatively short stretch of DNA will allow a molecular characterization of this gene through map-based cloning. Key words : rice, gene tagging, YAC contig, flower morphogenesis, extra glume.
18469959	A collection of 481 rice accessions was surveyed for ribosomal DNA (rDNA) intergenic spacer length polymorphism to assess the extent of genetic diversity in Chinese and Asian rice germplasm. The materials included 83 accessions of common wild rice, Oryza rufipogon, 75 of which were from China; 348 entries of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa), representing almost all the rice growing areas in China; and 50 cultivars from South and East Asia. A total of 42 spacer length variants (SLVs) were detected. The size differences between adjacent SLVs in the series were very heterogeneous, ranging from ca. 21 to 311 bp. The 42 SLVs formed 80 different rDNA phenotypic combinations. Wild rice displayed a much greater number of rDNA SLVs than cultivated rice, while cultivated rice showed a larger number of rDNA phenotypes. Indica and japonica groups of O. sativa contained about equal numbers of SLVs, but the SLV distribution was significantly differentiated: indica rice was preferentially associated with longer SLVs and japonica rice with shorter ones. The results may have significant implications regarding the origin and evolution of cultivated rice, as well as the inheritance and molecular evolution of rDNA intergenic spacers in rice. Key words : rDNA, Oryza rufipogon, Oryza sativa, germplasm diversity, evolution.
18470000	A DNA sequence, pOs6.20, was cloned from the nuclear genome of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) by hybridization with a human minisatellite sequence. At high hybridization stringency, a subfragment of the rice sequence, pOs6.20.3, detected low-copy restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs), which behaved as Mendelian genetic markers. This subfragment detected multicopy RFLPs between an indica and a javanica cultivar at medium hybridization stringency. The sequences detected by pOs6.20.3 at high hybridization stringency did not occur in rice species possessing the B, C, D, E, and F genomes. These results suggest that the RFLPs detected by this sequence can be placed on a genetic map of rice and that this sequence can be used as a species-specific probe for the A genome of rice.
18470015	This study was designed to use biotin labelling in situ hybridization to physically map the 5S rDNA genes to a chromosome arm location in rice. Chromosome preparations were made using an improved protoplast technique, which resulted in more mitotic cells with less overlying cytoplasmic and cellular debris. Cells in which both chromatids were labelled were observed. The hybridization detection level for the 5S rDNA gene complex was 17.22%. The results established that the 5S rDNA gene complex of rice is located at the end of the short arm of chromosome 9 in rice cultivar IR36. The similarities and differences of the 5S rDNA gene complex location between rice and other cereals and advantages of in situ hybridization for physical mapping are discussed.
18470024	An RFLP linkage map of the wild sugarcane species Saccharum spontaneum L. (2n = 8x = 40-128) was constructed, comprising 216 loci, detected by 116 DNA probes, and distributed over 44 linkage groups. At a density of at least one marker every 25-cM interval, the coverage of the genome was estimated as 86%. For the generation of RFLP markers, probes were surveyed from seven DNA libraries: three sugarcane cDNA, one oat cDNA, one rice cDNA, and one barley cDNA, as well as one sugarcane genomic. Sixty-two maize genomic clones that were previously mapped on maize were used to initiate a comparative map between the sugarcane, sorghum, and maize genomes. Based on the RFLP segregation data, we conclude that this species is an autopolyploid, with an estimated genome size of 2107 cM.
18470071	Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis was carried out to tag the alien genes for brown planthopper (BPH) resistance and earliness introgressed from wild species Oryza australiensis into cultivated rice, O. sativa L. One introgression line (IR65482-4-136-2-2), resistant to biotypes 1, 2, and 3 of BPH and early in flowering, was selected from BC2F4 of the cross between O. sativa (IR31917-45-3-2) and O. australiensis (accession 100882). Recurrent parent, O. australiensis, and introgression line were surveyed for RFLP using probes of chromosomes 10 and 12. Two probes, RG457 and CDO98, detected introgression from O. australiensis. Cosegregation between introgressed characters and molecular markers was studied in F2 derived from the cross between the introgression line and recurrent parent. The gene for BPH resistance is linked with RG457 of chromosome 12 at a distance of 3.68 +/- 1.29 cM, and the gene for earliness is linked with CDO98 of chromosome 10 at a distance of 9.96 +/- 3.28 cM. Such close linkage is useful in marker-based selection while transferring BPH resistance from introgression line into other elite breeding lines. Introgression at the molecular level indicates that the mechanism of alien gene transfer is probably genetic recombination through crossing over rather than substitution of whole or large segment of chromosomes of wild species.
18470151	Group 1 chromosomes of the Triticeae tribe have been studied extensively because many important genes have been assigned to them. In this paper, chromosome 1 linkage maps of Triticum aestivum, T. tauschii, and T. monococcum are compared with existing barley and rye maps to develop a consensus map for Triticeae species and thus facilitate the mapping of agronomic genes in this tribe. The consensus map that was developed consists of 14 agronomically important genes, 17 DNA markers that were derived from known-function clones, and 76 DNA markers derived from anonymous clones. There are 12 inconsistencies in the order of markers among seven wheat, four barley, and two rye maps. A comparison of the Triticeae group 1 chromosome consensus map with linkage maps of homoeologous chromosomes in rice indicates that the linkage maps for the long arm and the proximal portion of the short arm of group 1 chromosomes are conserved among these species. Similarly, gene order is conserved between Triticeae chromosome 1 and its homoeologous chromosome in oat. The location of the centromere in rice and oat chromosomes is estimated from its position in homoeologous group 1 chromosomes of Triticeae.
18470185	A molecular-marker map of bread wheat having many markers in common with other grasses in the Gramineae family is a prerequisite for molecular level genetic studies and breeding in this crop species. We have constructed restriction fragment length polymorphism maps of the A-, B-, and D-genome chromosomes of homoeologous group 2 of hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell) using 114 F7 lines from a synthetic x bread wheat cross and clones from 11 libraries. Chromosomes 2A, 2B, and 2D comprise 57, 60, and 56 markers and each spans about 200 cM. Comparisons between chromosomes are facilitated by 26 sets of homoeoloci. Genes mapped include a heterologous abscisic acid responsive locus cloned as pBS128, the epidermal waxiness inhibitor W21, and two presumed leaf rust and stem rust resistance genes. Anomalies suggesting ancestral rearrangements in chromosome 2B are pointed out and features of wheat group 2 chromosomes that are common to barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), rice (Oryza spp.), and T. tauschii are discussed.
18470186	A prerequisite for molecular level genetic studies and breeding in wheat is a molecular marker map detailing its similarities with those of other grass species in the Gramineae family. We have constructed restriction fragment length polymorphism maps of the A-, B-, and D-genome chromosomes of homoeologous group 3 of hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell) using 114 F7-8 lines from a synthetic x bread wheat cross. The map consists of 58 markers spanning 230 cM on chromosome 3A, 62 markers spanning 260 cM on 3B, and 40 markers spanning 171 cM on 3D. Thirteen libraries of genomic or cDNA clones from wheat, barley, and T. tauschii, the wheat D genome donor, are represented, facilitating the alignment and comparison of these maps with maps of other grass species. Twenty-four clones reveal homoeoloci on two of the three genomes and the associated linkages are largely comparable across genomes. A consensus sequence of orthologous loci in grass species genomes is assembled from this map and from existing maps of the chromosome-3 homoeologs in barley (Hordeum spp.), T. tauschii, and rice (Oryza spp.). It illustrates the close homoeology among the four species and the partial homoeology of wheat chromosome 3 with oat (Avena spp.) chromosome C. Two orthologous red grain color genes, R3 and R1, are mapped on chromosome arms 3BL and 3DL.
18470190	Seventeen morphological marker genes were associated with restriction fragment length polymorphism markers in rice by using four F2 populations, each segregating for a few observable traits, and 14 near isogenic lines (NILs), each containing one morphological mutant gene. The location of five genes was confirmed on the basis of F2 analysis: Purple hull (Pr) (16.8 +/- 7.9 cM away from RG163 on chromosome 4); Phenol staining (Ph) (20.8 +/- 8.4 cM away from RG163 on chromosome 4); glabrous leaf and hull (gl-1) (14.3 +/- 7.4 cM away from RG182, and 20.9 +/- 8.3 cM from RG403 on chromosome 5); Brown pericarp (Rc) (12.5 +/- 7.2 cM away from RG30 on chromosome 7); and lazy growth habit (la) (28.8 +/- 9.4 cM away from RG118 on chromosome 11). In addition, 12 other morphological markers, including the agronomically important genes semi-dwarf (sd-1) and Pollen restoring factor (Rf-1) were tentatively associated with mapped DNA clones based on screening pairs of NILs.
18470197	Eight types of aneuhaploids (Aneuhaplo 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12) and eight types of tetrasomics (Tetraplo 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 12) of rice have been obtained from anther culture of trisomics. This paper reports the plant morphology of these aneuploids and their chromosome behavior at metaphase I. Aneuhaploids for different chromosomes are distinguishable from each other and are morphologically similar to the parental trisomics, suggesting that the extra chromosome has similar genetic effects on plant morphology at the haploid level as at the diploid level. Similarly, tetrasomics with different extra chromosomes are distinguishable from each other and are similar morphologically to the parental trisomic. However, stronger changes in morphological characters were observed in tetrasomics compared with trisomics having the same extra chromosome, as a result of a dosage effect of the extra chromosomes. Comparing plant size between aneuhaploid, tetrasomic, and trisomic with the same extra chromosome, it was shown that the trisomic was the largest, the tetrasomic was of medium size, and the aneuhaploid was the smallest, except for those plants with an extra chromosome 8 in which plant size is dramatically decreased in both the aneuhaploid and the tetrasomic. At metaphase I, aneuhaploids showed chromosome configurations of 1 II + 11 I and 13 I. The frequency of the 1 II + 11 I configuration is higher than 70%, indicating that homologous chromosomes in aneuhaploids tend to stay associated in meiosis. Intragenome chromosome pairing (2 II + 9 I), so called secondary association, was observed in the aneuhaploid for chromosome 5. Tetrasomic plants showed 5 kinds of chromosome configurations: 1 IV + 11 II, 1 III + 11 II + 1 I, 13 II, 12 II + 2 I, and 11 II + 4 I. A chromosome configuration of 13 II was often observed in tetrasomics with shorter extra chromosomes and a chromosome configuration of 1 IV + 11 II was often observed in tetrasomics with longer extra chromosomes. Aneuhaploids had complete seed sterility. Tetrasomics showed very poor pollen fertility and complete seed sterility, except for a few shriveled seeds that were observed in Tetraplo 6 and 9. This is the first report in rice where many aneuhaploids and tetrasomics have been characterized. This information will help to further unravel rice aneuploidy and cytogenetics. The aneuploids obtained here will be very useful tools for the study of genetics and breeding in rice.
18470217	RFLP analyses were carried out in the progeny from a cross of two phylogenetically distant rice species, wild rice Oryza alta Swallen (CCDD, 2n = 48) and cultivated rice O. sativa L. (AA, 2n = 24). The sterile plants gave heterozygous RFLP patterns at most of the loci detected. They looked more like their wild rice parent, with 36 chromosomes in their root-tip cells and pollen mother cells. In two partially fertile plants, however, most of the markers that were used showed RFLP patterns similar to the cultivated parent, O. sativa. By cytological study, it was found that nearly one-third of the chromosomes had been eliminated in the partially fertile plants. Their seeds have short awns, which is a characteristic of their wild parent, O. alta. An introgression occurred in one of the partially fertile plants, which led to the discussion about a nonconventional mechanism in wide hybridization for transference of wild rice chromosome segments to cultivated rice chromosomes.
18470296	Maternal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) is associated with increased proportions of spontaneous abortion and stillbirth in animal studies. In Japan in 1968, accidental human exposure to rice oil contaminated with PCBs and other dioxin-related compounds, such as polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), led to the development of what was later referred to as Yusho oil disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of maternal PCB and dioxin exposure with adverse pregnancy outcomes in Yusho women. In 2004, we interviewed 214 Yusho women (512 pregnancies) about their pregnancy outcomes over the past 36 years. Pregnancy outcomes included induced abortion, spontaneous abortion, preterm delivery, and pregnancy loss. In pregnancy years 1968-1977 (within the first 10 years after exposure), the proportions of induced abortion [odds ratio adjusted for age at delivery (ORadj) = 5.93; 95% confidence interval (CI), 2.21-15.91; two-tailed p < 0.001) and preterm delivery (ORadj = 5.70; 95% CI, 1.17-27.79; p = 0.03) were significantly increased compared with the proportions in pregnancy years 1958-1967 (10 years before the incident). Spontaneous abortion (ORadj = 2.09; 95% CI, 0.84-5.18), and pregnancy loss (ORadj = 2.11; 95% CI, 0.92-4.87) were more frequent (OR = 2.18; 95% CI, 1.02-4.66), but these were not significant (p = 0.11 and p = 0.08, respectively) in pregnancy years 1968-1977. We found no significant increases in the proportions of these adverse pregnancy outcomes in pregnancies occurring during 1978-1987 or 1988-2003 compared with those in pregnancies before 1968. High levels of PCB/PCDF exposure had some adverse effects on pregnancy outcome in Yusho women.
18470484	DREB transcription factors play key roles in plant stress signalling transduction pathway, they can specifically bind to DRE/CRT element (G/ACCGAC) and activate the expression of many stress inducible genes. Here, a novel rice DREB transcription factor, OsDREB1F, was cloned and characterised via subtractive suppression hybridisation (SSH) from upland rice. Expression analysis revealed that OsDREB1F gene was induced by salt, drought, cold stresses, and also ABA application, but not by pathogen, wound, and H2O2. Subcellular localization results indicated that OsDREB1F localizes in nucleus. Yeast activity assay demonstrated that OsDREB1F gene encodes a transcription activator, and can specifically bind to DRE/CRT but not to ABRE element. Transgenic plants harbouring OsDREB1F gene led to enhanced tolerance to salt, drought, and low temperature in both rice and Arabidopsis. The further characterisation of OsDREB1F-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed that, besides activating the expression of COR genes which contain DRE/CRT element in their upstream promoter regions, the expression of rd29B and RAB18 genes were also activated, suggested that OsDREB1F may also participate in ABA-dependent pathway.
18470504	DNA polymorphisms are valuable for several applications including genotyping, molecular mapping and marker-assisted selection. The 55 K Affymetrix Wheat GeneChip was used to survey expression level polymorphisms (ELPs) and single-feature polymorphisms (SFPs) between two near-isogenic wheat genotypes (BC(7):F(4)) that differ for the Yr5 stripe rust resistance locus, with the objective of developing genetic markers linked to Yr5. Ninety-one probe sets showing ELPs and 118 SFP-containing probe sets were identified between isolines, of which just nine ELP probe sets also contained SFPs. The proportion of the transcriptome estimated to be variable between isolines from this analysis was 0.30% for the ELPs and 0.39% for the SFPs, which was highly similar to the theoretical genome difference between isolines of ~0.39%. Using wheat-rice synteny, both ELPs and SFPs mainly clustered on long arms of rice chromosomes four and seven, which are syntenous to wheat chromosomes 2L (Yr5 locus) and 2S, respectively. The strong physical correlation between the two types of polymorphism indicated that the ELPs may be regulated by cis-acting DNA polymorphisms. Twenty SFPs homologous to rice 4L were used to develop additional genetic markers for Yr5. Physical mapping of the probe sets containing SFPs to wheat chromosomes identified nine on the target chromosome 2BL, thus wheat-rice synteny greatly enhanced the selection of SFPs that were located on the desired wheat chromosome. Of these nine, four were converted into polymorphic cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers between Yr5 and yr5 isolines, and one was mapped within 5.3 cM of the Yr5 locus. This study represents the first array-based polymorphism survey in near-isogenic genotypes, and the results are applied to an agriculturally important trait.
18472447	Paddy rice-upland crop rotation system is a major cropping system in China, and practiced widely along the Yangtze River basin. A unique feature of this system is the annual conversion of soil from aerobic to anaerobic and then back to aerobic condition, which can result in the changes of soil physical, chemical, and biological prosperities among seasons, making a special agroecosystem. The major challenges faced by this system include declining or stagnating productivity, increasing shortage of irrigation water, improper management of nutrients, low efficiency of resource utilization, and environmental pollution. Based on an overview of the characteristics and problems of paddy rice-upland crop rotation system, this paper put forward a strategy of practicing integrated nutrient management to solve the contradictions between nutrient input, crop production and environmental risk. The key points of this strategy included nutrient management from the whole rotation system perspective, integrated use of nutrients from various sources (chemical fertilizers, organic fertilizers, and nutrients from the environment), synchronization of nutrient supply and crop nutrient demand, application of different management technologies based on the characteristics of different nutrient resources, and integration of nutrient management with other cropping system technologies like water saving and high-yielding cultivation, etc.
18472555	This paper presents the results of a case study of urban air quality over a densely populated city Ludhiana situated in Punjab, India, in the form of monthly and annual average concentrations of Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), NO2 and SO2 for the periods 1988-1989, 1994-1999 and 2001-2005 which is generally found to be increasing with time and thus requires immediate corrective measures lest the situation becomes totally uncontrollable. The present situation is as bad as in other metropolitan Indian cities, although it seems to have somewhat improved as indicated by the latest 2001-2005 data in comparison with the past 1988-1989 and 1994-1999 data, but much more still needs to be done. In addition to the industrial and vehicular pollution, the agricultural pollution due to the burning of wheat and rice straws by the farmers should also be checked because it also creates tremendous pollution in the atmosphere.
18473474	Infrared spectroscopy based on sensitive wavelengths (SWs) and chemometrics was proposed to discriminate the nine different radiation doses (0, 250, 500, 750, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, and 3000 Gy) of rice. Samples (n = 16 each dose) were selected randomly for the calibration set, and the remaining 36 samples (n = 4 each dose) were selected for the prediction set. Partial least-squares (PLS) analysis and least-squares-support vector machine (LS-SVM) were implemented for calibration models. PLS analysis was implemented for calibration models with different wavelength bands including near-infrared (NIR) regions and mid-infrared (MIR) regions. The best PLS models were achieved in the MIR (400-4000 cm (-1)) region. Furthermore, different latent variables (5-9 LVs) were used as inputs of LS-SVM to develop the LV-LS-SVM models with a grid search technique and radial basis function (RBF) kernel. The optimal models were achieved with six LVs, and they outperformed PLS models. Moreover, independent component analysis (ICA) was executed to select several SWs based on loading weights. The optimal LS-SVM model was achieved with SWs (756, 895, 1140, and 2980 cm (-1)) selected by ICA and had better performance than PLS and LV-LS-SVM with the parameters of correlation coefficient (r), root-mean-square error of prediction, and bias of 0.996, 80.260, and 5.172 x 10 (-4), respectively. The overall results indicted that the ICA was an effective way for the selection of SWs, and infrared spectroscopy combined with LS-SVM models had the capability to predict the different radiation doses of rice.
18476441	Decomposition rates and nutrient contents of sulphitation pressmud (SPM), either alone or by mixing with cow dung and rice straw, under the aerobic (heap and NADEP), anaerobic (pit) and vermicomposting methods were compared. Loss in Organic C and C/N ratios of the decomposing materials indicated the heap and NADEP methods faster for the composting of SPM alone and SPM + cow dung and vermicomposting method for SPM + rice straw registering significant reductions in Organic C ranging from 45.0 to 61.0% from the respective decomposing materials at termination time (119 days). The heap and NADEP methods recorded C/N ratio of SPM alone as low as 11 and 12 and SPM + cow dung as 12.0 and 13.9 at termination stage. Vermicomposting method brought the C/N ratio of SPM + rice straw to 16.4 as compared to 18.6 to 29.8 with the other methods. Irrespective of the composting methods, CO2 evolution from the decomposing materials was higher in early period (up to 28 days). Among methods, NADEP and heap methods recorded more CO2 evolution in early period while vermicomposting method showed more CO2 evolution at the later intervals in comparison to the other methods. Nutrient content in the decomposing materials at different intervals depended on their initial contents. Total N in the composts were statistically comparable, however, the composts of SPM alone recorded relatively more N than SPM + cow dung and SPM + rice-straw prepared by the respective methods. Total P and K contents of the composts increased with time irrespective of the composting methods. Composts of SPM alone recorded significantly more total P than SPM + cow dung and SPM + rice straw at 62, 91 and 119 days while SPM + rice straw recorded more total K than the composts of other materials. Total P in the composts did not differ with the composting methods, but total K in composts of SPM alone was relatively more with heap and NADEP methods, in SPM + cow dung with pit method and in SPM + rice straw by vermicomposting method. Total S in the composts decreased with time and both the aerobic methods showed more reductions than pit and vermicomposting methods.
18477314	The effects of six extruded diets with different starch sources (cassava flour, brewer's rice, corn, sorghum, peas or lentils) on dog total tract apparent digestibility and glycemic and insulinemic response were investigated. The experiment was carried out on thirty-six dogs with six dogs per diet in a completely randomized design. The diets containing brewer's rice and cassava flour presented the greatest digestibility of dry matter, organic matter and gross energy (p < 0.05), followed by corn and sorghum; pea and lentil diets had the lowest. Starch digestibility was greater than 98% in all diets and was greater for brewer's rice and cassava flour than for lentils and peas diets (p < 0.05). Dogs' immediate post-prandial glucose and insulin responses (AUC < or = 30 min) were greater for brewer's rice, corn, and cassava flour diets (p < 0.05), and later meal responses (AUC > or = 30 min) were greater for sorghum, lentil and pea diets (p < 0.05). Variations in diet digestibility and post-prandial response can be explained by differences in chemical composition of each starch source including fibre content and starch granule structure. The nutritional particularities of each starch ingredient can be explored through diet formulations designed to modulate glycemic response. However, more studies are required to support these.
18477473	Telomeres consist of nucleoprotein complexes that protect chromosome end structures. Here, we describe three OsTRBF genes, encoding telomere repeat-binding factors of the single Myb histone family in rice. The predicted proteins contain a Myb DNA-binding motif and a linker histone H1/H5 domain in the N-terminal and central regions, respectively. The OsTRBF transcripts were constitutively detected in rice plants grown under greenhouse conditions. Gel retardation assays showed that these OsTRBF proteins bind specifically to the plant double-stranded telomeric sequence, TTTAGGG, with markedly different binding affinities as judged by their respective dissociation constants. Yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down assays indicated that both OsTRBF1 and OsTRBF2 interact with one another to form homo- and hetero-complexes, while OsTRBF3 appeared to act as a monomer. Our results suggest that OsTRBFs play combinatory roles in the function and structure of telomeres in rice.
18478400	The potential of dilute-acid prehydrolysis as a pretreatment method for sugarcane bagasse, rice hulls, peanut shells, and cassava stalks was investigated. The prehydrolysis was performed at 122 degrees C during 20, 40, or 60 min using 2% H(2)SO(4) at a solid-to-liquid ratio of 1:10. Sugar formation increased with increasing reaction time. Xylose, glucose, arabinose, and galactose were detected in all of the prehydrolysates, whereas mannose was found only in the prehydrolysates of peanut shells and cassava stalks. The hemicelluloses of bagasse were hydrolyzed to a high-extent yielding concentrations of xylose and arabinose of 19.1 and 2.2 g/L, respectively, and a xylan conversion of more than 80%. High-glucose concentrations (26-33.5 g/L) were found in the prehydrolysates of rice hulls, probably because of hydrolysis of starch of grain remains in the hulls. Peanut shells and cassava stalks rendered low amounts of sugars on prehydrolysis, indicating that the conditions were not severe enough to hydrolyze the hemicelluloses in these materials quantitatively. All prehydrolysates were readily fermentable by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The dilute-acid prehydrolysis resulted in a 2.7- to 3.7-fold increase of the enzymatic convertibility of bagasse, but was not efficient for improving the enzymatic hydrolysis of peanut shells, cassava stalks, or rice hulls.
1847888	The gene encoding a rice endosperm-specific ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPP) subunit was isolated and its structure determined by nucleotide (nt) sequencing. A comparison of the genomic and cDNA nt sequences revealed a complex gene structure with ten exons and nine introns spanning over 6 kb. The exons ranged in size from 293 to 99 nt and the introns were between 1435 and 84 nt in size, with the first intron being the largest. All of the intron splice sites, except intron-2, contained GT/AG borders and were similar to the published splice site consensus sequences. Intron-2 had CA/CC borders at the 5' and 3' ends, but sequences adjacent to the splice site borders shared homology to the splice site consensus sequence, suggesting that the overall splice region, rather than the specific GT/AG sequence, determines the splice site. Several sequence motifs which may play a role in the regulation of plant genes were evident upstream from the transcriptional start point. Analysis of the developmental pattern of expression revealed a maximum level of mRNA transcripts for AGPP at five days after flowering coincident with starch accumulation. This result suggests that starch biosynthesis is controlled at the transcriptional level during seed development.
18478979	To develop a technique for simultaneous detection of various target genes in Roundup Ready soybean by combining multiplex PCR and low-density DNA microarray. Two sets of the multiplex PCR system were used to amplify the target genes in genetically modified (GM) soybean. Seventeen capture probes (PCR products) and 17 pairs of corresponding primers were designed according to the genetic characteristics of Rroundup Ready soybean (GTS40-3-2), maize (Mon810, Nk603, GA21), canola (T45, MS1/RF1), and rice (SCK) in many identified GM crops. All of the probes were categorized and identified as species-specific probes. One negative probe and one positive control probe were used to assess the efficiency of all reactions, and therefore eliminate any false positive and negative results. After multiplex PCR reaction, amplicons were adulterated with Cy5-dUTP and hybridized with DNA microarray. The array was then scanned to display the specific hybridization signals of target genes. The assay was applied to the analysis of sample of certified transgenic soybean (Roundup Ready GTS40-3-2) and canola (MS1/RF1). A combination technique of multiplex PCR and DNA microarray was successfully developed to identify multi-target genes in Roundup Ready soybean and MS1/RF1 canola with a great specificity and reliability. Reliable identification of genetic characteristics of Roundup Ready of GM soybean from genetically modified crops was achieved at 0.5% transgenic events, indicating a high sensitivity. A combination technique of multiplex PCR and low-density DNA microarray can reliably detect and identify the genetically modified crops.
18479187
18480154	Aluminum phosphide as a releaser of phosphine gas is used as a grain preservative. In this case report, we describe an accidental severe poisoning in a 35-year-old woman, her 18-year-old daughter, and 6-year-old son caused by inhalation of phosphine gas released from 20 tablets of aluminum phosphide stored in 15 rice bags. The boy died 2 days after exposure before admission to hospital and any special treatment, but the others were admitted 48 h after exposure. They had signs and symptoms of severe toxicity, and their clinical course included metabolic acidosis, electrocardiographic changes, and hypotension. They were treated by intravenous administration of sodium bicarbonate, magnesium sulfate, and calcium gluconate. The patients were discharged after 3 days and followed up for 1 week after discharge. Rapid absorption of phosphine by inhalation, induction of hyperglycemia, and surviving of patients are interesting issues of this case report.
18481185	Apomixis is a route of asexual reproduction through seeds, that progresses in the absence of meiosis and fertilization to generate maternal clonal progenies. Gametophytic apomicts are usually polyploid and probably arose from sexual ancestors through a limited number of mutations in the female reproductive pathway. A differential display analysis was carried out on immature inflorescences of sexual and apomictic tetraploid genotypes of Paspalum notatum, in order to identify genes associated with the emergence of apospory. Analysis of approximately 10,000 transcripts led to the identification of 94 high-quality differentially expressed sequences. Assembling analysis, plus validation, rendered 65 candidate unigenes, organized as 14 contigs and 51 singletons. Thirty-four unigenes were isolated from apomictic plants and 31 from sexual ones. A total of 45 (69.2%) unigenes were functionally categorized. While several of the differentially expressed sequences appeared to be components of an extracellular receptor kinase (ERK) signal transduction cascade, others seemed to participate in a variety of central cellular processes like cell-cycle control, protein turnover, intercellular signalling, transposon activity, transcriptional regulation and endoplasmic reticulum-mediated biosynthesis. In silico mapping revealed that a particular group of five genes silenced in apomictic plants clustered in a rice genomic area syntenic with the region governing apospory in Paspalum notatum and Brachiaria brizantha. Two of these genes mapped within the set of apo-homologues in P. notatum. Four genes previously reported to be controlled by ploidy were identified among those expressed differentially between apomictic and sexual plants. In situ hybridization experiments were performed for selected clones.
18481519	In this paper, we analyze databases [corrected] on birds and insects to assess patterns of functional diversity in human-dominated landscapes in the tropics. A perspective from developed landscapes is essential for understanding remnant natural ecosystems, because most species experience their surroundings at spatial scales beyond the plot level, and spillover between natural and managed ecosystems is common. Agricultural bird species have greater habitat and diet breadth than forest species. Based on a global data base, bird assemblages in tropical agroforest ecosystems were composed of disproportionately more frugivorous and nectarivorous, but fewer insectivorous bird species compared with forest. Similarly, insect predators of plant-feeding arthropods were more diverse in Ecuadorian agroforest and forest compared with rice and pasture, while, in Indonesia, bee diversity was also higher in forested habitats. Hence, diversity of insectivorous birds and insect predators as well as bee pollinators declined with agricultural transformation. In contrast, with increasing agricultural intensification, avian pollinators and seed dispersers initially increase then decrease in proportion. It is well established that the proximity of agricultural habitats to forests has a strong influence on the functional diversity of agroecosystems. Community similarity is higher among agricultural systems than in natural habitats and higher in simple than in complex landscapes for both birds and insects, so natural communities, low-intensity agriculture, and heterogeneous landscapes appear to be critical in the preservation of beta diversity. We require a better understanding of the relative role of landscape composition and the spatial configuration of landscape elements in affecting spillover of functionally important species across managed and natural habitats. This is important for data-based management of tropical human-dominated landscapes sustaining the capacity of communities to reorganize after disturbance and to ensure ecological functioning.
18482260	Chilo suppressalis (Walker) displays significant geographical differences in ecological preference that may be congruent with patterns of molecular variation. To test this, we collected and analysed 381 individuals of this species from cultivated rice at 18 localities in China during the rice-growing season of 2005-2006. We used four microsatellite DNA markers and four mitochondrial DNA gene fragments. We found that this species is highly differentiated, coupled with an estimated population expansion date of at least 60 000 bp. Phylogenetic analyses, Bayesian clustering, and phylogeographical analyses of statistical parsimony haplotype network consistently divided the populations into three clades: a central China (CC) clade, a northern plus northeastern China (NN) clade and a southwestern China (SW) clade. Analysis of molecular variance indicated a high level of geographical differentiation at different hierarchical levels [F(ST) for microsatellite markers, COI, COII, 16S and ND1 is 0.06004 (P < 0.0001), 0.27607 (P < 0.0001), 0.22949 (P < 0.0001), 0.19485 (P < 0.0001) and 0.29285 (P < 0.0001), respectively]. Isolation by distance appeared among the samples from within China (r = 0.404, P = 0.0002); N(e)m values estimated using a coalescent-based method were small (< 2 migrants per generation), suggesting that the observed levels of differentiation are a result of migration-drift equilibrium. Our results imply that the genetic differentiation of this borer, which is approximately in accordance with its observed number of generations per year in different Chinese geographical regions, is probably attributed to climatic and/or geological events (e.g. the last glacial maximum) and subsequently strengthened by the domestication of rice.
18482598	A simple polymerization strategy has been used to produce a monolithic solid phase micro extraction (SPME) fiber on the basis of molecularly imprinted polymer able to couple with GC and GC-MS for selective extraction and analysis of triazine herbicides. A fiber was produced by copolymerization of methacrylic acid-ethylene glycol dimethacrylate imprinted with atrazine. The effective factors influencing the polymerization have been investigated and are detailed here. At the optimum conditions the prepared fiber is firm, inexpensive, durable and thermally stable up to 280 degrees C which has vital importance in SPME coupled with GC or GC/MS. In addition, the influences of pH, extraction time and temperature on the extraction efficiency of analytes were optimized. Selectivity of prepared fibers in relation to triazine herbicides and some of the other pesticide has been investigated. The high extraction efficiency was obtained for atrazine, simazine, propazine, cyanazine, ametryn, terbutryn and prometryn yielding the detection limits of 20, 70, 80, 81, 69, 88 and 68 ng mL(-1), respectively and the high quantities of recoveries. The reliability of prepared fiber to extraction of atrazine and other analogues in real samples has been investigated and proved by implementation of SPME in spiked samples such as tap water, onion and rice.
18483782	The effects of domestic wastewater application on the translocation and accumulation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in soil and crops (rice, lettuce, and barley) were investigated by Wagner's pot experiment. In the soils and crops after domestic wastewater irrigation, high-molecular weight PAHs (5 to 6 ring) were not detected, but low-molecular weight PAHs (3 to 4 ring) were only detected at trace levels.
18484302	Single conidia strains of Fusarium poae and Fusarium avenaceum were investigated for their ability to synthesise mycotoxins in vitro. In a first experiment, rice was inoculated with three strains of F. poae and three strains of F. avenaceum. In a second experiment, the same strains were cultivated on four different cereal substrates. For both experiments, the colonised substrates were analysed using liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometric detection (LC-MS/MS) for the content of Fusarium mycotoxins. On rice, a strong effect of strains on mycotoxin content was found. With the analyses of different cereal types, substantial substrate effects were observed. For F. poae, these effects were highly dependent on the strain. The results of this study are of benefit for risk assessment concerning naturally infected grain samples since substrate effects could also be triggered by different cereal species or varieties, and thus could lead to variable mycotoxin contamination in cereal products intended for human consumption.
18485062	Sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) has attracted the interest of plant scientists for decades. It is the key enzyme in sucrose metabolism and is under investigation in various plant species, e.g. spinach, tobacco, poplar, resurrection plants, maize, rice, kiwi and Arabidopsis thaliana. In A. thaliana, there are four distinct SPS isoforms. Their expression is thought to depend on environmental conditions and plant tissue. However, these data were derived from mRNA expression levels only. No data on SPS protein identification from crude extracts have been available until now. An antibody approach failed to distinguish the four isoforms. Therefore, we developed a method for SPS quantification and isoform-specific identification in A. thaliana complex protein samples. Samples were separated on SDS-PAGE, digested and directly applied to liquid chromatography/triple-stage quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC/TSQ-MS). In this approach, known as mass Western, samples were analysed in multi-reaction monitoring (MRM) mode, so that all four SPS isoforms could be measured in one experiment. In addition to the relative quantification, stable isotope-labelled internal peptide standards allowed absolute quantification of SPS proteins. Protein extracts from various plant tissues, samples harvested during the day or the night, and cold-stressed plants were analysed. The stress-specific SPS5a isoform showed increased concentrations in cold-stressed leaf material.
18486520	An old man was found dead in a rice paddy with his face down in the water. His right forearm and hand were severely injured and the shapes of injuries were unusual. It was initially suspected that the injuries had been caused by a cultivator placed at the site. However, they proved to be postmortem injuries because vital reactions were not observed. The skin was widely torn away. Some edges of the injuries looked like a bite mark and other parts looked like scratches. There were many parallel injuries on the right forearm and hand and footmark-like injuries on the right hand. They were probably caused by wild animals. Judging from the sizes and shapes of the footprint, bite marks and scratches, we estimated that the animal which caused the injuries was weasels.
18487352	Two distinct biosynthetic pathways for Phe in plants have been proposed: conversion of prephenate to Phe via phenylpyruvate or arogenate. The reactions catalyzed by prephenate dehydratase (PDT) and arogenate dehydratase (ADT) contribute to these respective pathways. The Mtr1 mutant of rice (Oryza sativa) manifests accumulation of Phe, Trp, and several phenylpropanoids, suggesting a link between the synthesis of Phe and Trp. Here, we show that the Mtr1 mutant gene (mtr1-D) encodes a form of rice PDT with a point mutation in the putative allosteric regulatory region of the protein. Transformed callus lines expressing mtr1-D exhibited all the characteristics of Mtr1 callus tissue. Biochemical analysis revealed that rice PDT possesses both PDT and ADT activities, with a preference for arogenate as substrate, suggesting that it functions primarily as an ADT. The wild-type enzyme is feedback regulated by Phe, whereas the mutant enzyme showed a reduced feedback sensitivity, resulting in Phe accumulation. In addition, these observations indicate that rice PDT is critical for regulating the size of the Phe pool in plant cells. Feeding external Phe to wild-type callus tissue and seedlings resulted in Trp accumulation, demonstrating a connection between Phe accumulation and Trp pool size.
18487481	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) are important and persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in humans. Recent cross-sectional studies have detected increased concentrations of serum POPs in diabetic patients. We aimed to examine the association between previous high exposures to PCBs and PCDFs and the cumulative incidence of type 2 diabetes and hypertension. During the late 1970s, the consumption of rice-bran oil laced with PCBs poisoned thousands of Taiwanese. Between 1993 and 2003, we examined 1,054 Yucheng ("oil disease") victims against neighborhood reference subjects using a protocol blinded for POP exposure. Here, we report the results derived from 378 Yucheng subjects and 370 matched references. The diabetes risk to members of the Yucheng cohort relative to their reference subjects was significantly increased for women (odds ratio [OR] 2.1 [95% CI 1.1-4.5]) but not for men after considering age, BMI, cigarette smoking, and alcohol intake. Yucheng women diagnosed with chloracne had adjusted ORs of 5.5 (95% CI 2.3-13.4) for diabetes and 3.5 (1.7-7.2) for hypertension compared with those who were chloracne free. Yucheng women, who had endured previous exposure to PCBs and PCDFs, suffered from increased incidences of diabetes, particularly those who had retained significant levels of pollutant as evident from chloracne. When planning treatments against diabetes, the body burden of PCBs and dioxins should be carefully considered, especially for women.
18487614	The metabolism of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan regulates the mechanical properties of cell walls, and thereby changes the elongation growth of Poaceae plants. A previous study has shown that elongation growth of rice coleoptiles under water is enhanced by increased activity of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan hydrolases; however, the involvement of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase activity in elongation growth under water has not yet been clarified. The beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase activity in a microsomal fraction prepared from rice seedlings grown under water was compared with that from control seedlings grown in air. The change under water in the relative expression level of CslF6, a major isoform of the beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase genes, was examined by quantitative reverse-transcriptase PCR. The level of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase activity in submerged seedlings decreased to less than 40 % of that of the control seedlings and was accompanied by a significant reduction in the amount of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan in the cell walls. Under water, the expression of CslF6 was reduced to less than 20 % of the unsubmerged control. Bubble aeration partially restored both beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase activity and the expression of CslF6 under water, correlating with suppression of the submergence-induced elongation growth of coleoptiles. Submergence down-regulates the expression of the CslF6 gene, leading to a decreased level of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase activity. Together with the increased activity of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan hydrolases, the decreased activity of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthase contributes to the decrease in the amount of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan in the cell walls under water. The suppression of beta-1,3 : 1,4-glucan synthesis under water may be mainly due to oxygen depletion.
18488130	Two rainfall simulations of 30 mm h(-1), with 48-h interval between two simulations, were performed on rice lysimeters at 24, 48, and 72 h after being sprayed with tricyclazole. In the first simulated rainfall, wash-off concentration of tricyclazole was significant irrespective of the interval between the spray time and the rainfall simulation. And from 20.5% to 24.2% of tricyclazole deposited on leaves was removed from the rice foliage. In the second simulated rainfall, concentration of tricyclazole in wash-off water was significantly lower and less than 3.6% of the deposited tricyclazole was lost.
18488170	In this study, microarray technique was employed to analyze the gene expression at the RNA level between haploids and corresponding diploids derived from a rice twin-seedling line SARII-628. Different degrees of expression variations were observed in the plant after haploidization. The main results are as follows: (1) after haploidization, the ratio of the sensitive loci was 2.47% of the total loci designed on chip. Those loci were randomly distributed on the 12 pairs of rice chromosomes and the activated loci were more than the silenced ones. (2) Gene clusters on chromosome were observed for 33 sequences. (3) GoPipe function classification for 575 sensitive loci revealed an involvement in the biological process, cell component and molecular function. (4) RT-PCR generally validated the result from microarray with a coincidence rate of 83.78%. And for the randomly-selected activated or silenced loci in chip analysis, the coincidence rate was up to 91.86%.
18490058	The composition of culture-independent microbial communities and the change of nitrogenase activities under the application of butachlor in paddy soil were investigated. Nitrogen-fixation ability was expressed by the amount of acetylene reduction, and changes of microbial communities were studied by using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) technique; afterward, minimum distance (MD, in brief) statistics was applied to determine the cluster numbers in UPGMA dendrograms. The results showed that the reduction of acetylene was suppressed shortly after butachlor application but was augmented after 37 days in both upper and lower layer soils. From UPGMA dendrograms, the diazotrophic divergences ranged from 33% to 64% throughout rice growth stages. For general bacterial communities, the diversities ranged from 28% to 52%. The divergences became higher with the cultivation period, and the application of butachlor imposed a significant variation on microbial community shift, which may be a reason for the boosting nitrogen-fixation ability in paddy soils.
18490745	IgE-mediated sensitization to wheat flour belongs to the most frequent causes of occupational asthma. A cDNA library from wheat seeds was constructed and screened with serum IgE from baker's asthma patients. One IgE-reactive phage clone contained a full-length cDNA coding for an allergen with a molecular mass of 9.9 kDa and an isoelectric point of 6. According to sequence analysis it represents a member of the potato inhibitor I family, a group of serine proteinase inhibitors, and thus is the first allergen belonging to the group 6 pathogenesis-related proteins. The recombinant wheat seed proteinase inhibitor was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. According to circular dichroism analysis, it represented a soluble and folded protein with high thermal stability containing mainly beta-sheets, random coils, and an alpha-helical element. The recombinant allergen showed allergenic activity in basophil histamine release assays and reacted specifically with IgE from 3 of 22 baker's asthma patients, but not with IgE from grass pollen allergic patients or patients suffering from food allergy to wheat. Allergen-specific Abs were raised to localize the allergen by immunogold electron microscopy in the starchy endosperm and the aleuron layer. The allergen is mainly expressed in mature wheat seeds and, despite an approximately 50% sequence identity, showed no relevant cross-reactivity with allergens from other plant-derived food sources such as maize, rice, beans, or potatoes. Recombinant wheat serine proteinase inhibitor, when used in combination with other specific allergens, may be useful for the diagnosis and therapy of IgE-mediated baker's asthma.
18490847	White rice (WR) is made by polishing brown rice (BR) and has lost various nutrients; however, most people prefer it to BR, maybe because of the hardness of BR. Pre-germinated brown rice (PGBR) improves the problem of BR. It is made by soaking BR kernels in water to germinate and becomes softer than BR. In this study we compared the effects of WR and PGBR on blood glucose and lipid concentrations in the impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or type 2 diabetes patients. Six men and 5 women with impaired fasting glucose (IFG) or type 2 diabetes were randomly allocated to 6 wk on WR or PGBR diet separated by a 2 wk washout interval in a crossover design. Each subject was instructed to consume 3 packs of cooked WR or PGBR (180 g/pack) daily in each intervention phase. Blood samples were collected 4 times (in study weeks 0, 6, 8 and 14) for biochemical examination. Blood concentrations of fasting blood glucose, fructosamine, serum total cholesterol and triacylglycerol levels were favorably improved on the PGBR diet (p<0.01), but not on the WR diet. The present results suggest that diets including PGBR may be useful to control blood glucose level.
18491070	In Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), aroma is one of the most valuable traits in grain quality and 2-ACP is the main volatile compound contributing to the characteristic popcorn-like odour of aromatic rices. Although the major locus for grain fragrance (frg gene) has been described recently in Basmati rice, this gene has not been characterised in true japonica varieties and molecular information available on the genetic diversity and evolutionary origin of this gene among the different varieties is still limited. Here we report on characterisation of the frg gene in the Azucena variety, one of the few aromatic japonica cultivars. We used a RIL population from a cross between Azucena and IR64, a non-aromatic indica, the reference genomic sequence of Nipponbare (japonica) and 93-11 (indica) as well as an Azucena BAC library, to identify the major fragance gene in Azucena. We thus identified a betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase gene, badh2, as the candidate locus responsible for aroma, which presented exactly the same mutation as that identified in Basmati and Jasmine-like rices. Comparative genomic analyses showed very high sequence conservation between Azucena and Nipponbare BADH2, and a MITE was identified in the promotor region of the BADH2 allele in 93-11. The badh2 mutation and MITE were surveyed in a representative rice collection, including traditional aromatic and non-aromatic rice varieties, and strongly suggested a monophylogenetic origin of this badh2 mutation in Asian cultivated rices. Altogether these new data are discussed here in the light of current hypotheses on the origin of rice genetic diversity.
18492158	Synopsis The aim of this study was to develop hydrogel patch using crosslinked chitosan-starch as polymeric matrix for controlling the release of the natural alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA) contained in the extract of tamarind's fruit pulp. The chitosan (MW 100 000) was blended with corn, tapioca or rice starch in various ratios and then crosslinked with glutaraldehyde. The physical characteristics, mechanical resistance, bio-adhesion property and surface morphology of the prepared hydrogel patches with and without the extract were investigated. The release patterns of the hydrogel patches containing the extract were investigated by measuring the amount of tartaric acid, a major AHA present in the tamarind's fruit pulp extract, accumulated in the receptor medium of the vertical diffusion cell at various time intervals over a period of 6 h. The results indicated that the formulations of chitosan : corn starch 4.5 : 0.5 with glutaraldehyde 0.02% w/w (C(4.5)C(0.5)G(0.02)) or 0.04% w/w (C(4.5)C(0.5)G(0.04)), chitosan : tapioca starch 4.5 : 0.5 with glutaraldehyde 0.04% w/w (C(4.5)T(0.5)G(0.04)) or 0.05% w/w (C(4.5)T(0.5)G(0.05)), and chitosan : rice starch 4.5 : 0.5 with glutaraldehyde 0.04% w/w (C(4.5)R(0.5)G(0.04)) and chitosan : rice starch 4.0 : 1.0 with glutaraldehyde 0.03% w/w (C(4.0)R(1.0)G(0.03)) provided the flexible and elastic patches with good bio-adhesive property. The tensile strength values ranged from 5 to15 N mm(-2) and the elasticity ranged from 30 to 60%. The addition of the extract in these formulations significantly increased the tensile strength values of the obtained patches. The patch of C(4.0)R(1.0)G(0.03) formulation containing the extract showed relatively highest porosity, corresponding to its highest amount (12.02 +/- 0.33 mg) and rate (0.452 +/- 0.012 mg mm(-2) min(-1/2)) of tartaric acid released. The amounts of tartaric acid released from the developed hydrogel patches were proportional to a square root of time (Higuchi's model), particularly the release from C(4.0)R(1.0)G(0.03) (R(2), 0.9978 +/- 0.0020) and C(4.5)R(0.5)G(0.04) (R(2), 0.9961 +/- 0.0024) patches.
18492280	Rice blast disease is caused by the filamentous Ascomycetous fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and results in significant annual rice yield losses worldwide. Infection by this and many other fungal plant pathogens requires the development of a specialized infection cell called an appressorium. The molecular processes regulating appressorium formation are incompletely understood. We analyzed genome-wide gene expression changes during spore germination and appressorium formation on a hydrophobic surface compared to induction by cAMP. During spore germination, 2,154 (approximately 21%) genes showed differential expression, with the majority being up-regulated. During appressorium formation, 357 genes were differentially expressed in response to both stimuli. These genes, which we refer to as appressorium consensus genes, were functionally grouped into Gene Ontology categories. Overall, we found a significant decrease in expression of genes involved in protein synthesis. Conversely, expression of genes associated with protein and amino acid degradation, lipid metabolism, secondary metabolism and cellular transportation exhibited a dramatic increase. We functionally characterized several differentially regulated genes, including a subtilisin protease (SPM1) and a NAD specific glutamate dehydrogenase (Mgd1), by targeted gene disruption. These studies revealed hitherto unknown findings that protein degradation and amino acid metabolism are essential for appressorium formation and subsequent infection. We present the first comprehensive genome-wide transcript profile study and functional analysis of infection structure formation by a fungal plant pathogen. Our data provide novel insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms that will directly benefit efforts to identify fungal pathogenicity factors and aid the development of new disease management strategies.
18492353	In this study, a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method is successfully developed for the determination of 11 herbicide residues (alachlor, acetochlor, butachlor, pretilachlor, metolachlor, dimethenamid, propachlor, napropamid, propanil, atrazine, and metribuzin) in rice and soybeans. The sample is extracted with acetone-water, degreased by liquid-liquid partition, and purified through solid-phase extraction with Florisil. Experiments on 5 fortification concentrations are carried out, and the limit of determination is 0.02 mg/kg. The average recoveries of soybean samples range from 63.3% to 96.0%, and the relative standard deviations are from 2.14% to 11.2%. The average recoveries of rice samples range from 76.8% to 102% and the relative standard deviations are from 2.2% to 9.08%. The results indicate that the method developed is fast, accurate, and easy to operate. It also demonstrates that the method can meet the requirements of simultaneous determination of 11 herbicides in rice and soybeans.
18492432	Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy is a cause of disability in the infant population. One of the most used animal models in the hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy in immature brain is the preparation of Levine applied by Rice in newborn rats and consists of the bond of the left common carotid artery followed by induced hypoxia. The objective of this investigation was to study the neurological effects of the bond of the left common carotid and induced hypoxia in newborn rats. Five control rats, five sham rats and five rats with hypoxic-ischemic lesion by means of the application of Levine's preparation at 7 days of age were used. On day 42, all rats were evaluated by time of grasping, posterior reflex test and analysis of the spontaneous locomotor activity (number of bipedal movements, number of stepped stalls, grooming time). The lesioned group presented less grasping time, lower number of positive responses to the posterior reflex and lower number of stepped stalls (p = 0.024, 0.002 and 0.0001, respectively). There were no statistically significant differences in grooming time or number of bipedal movements. Newborn rats in whom Levine preparation was applied presented clinical alterations that may resemble some of the signs that accompany infantile cerebral palsy (grasp problems, wrong response to postural reflexes and alteration in locomotion).
1849265	Transposition of the maize Activator (Ac) element was observed in transgenic rice. After protoplast transformation, Ac excision from an interrupted hygromycin phosphotransferase gene was monitored by appearance of the hygromycin-resistant colonies. The frequency of Ac excision, based on the biological assay was up to 19%. Southern hybridization analysis indicated that at least one copy per genome of the hygromycin-resistance gene was reconstituted after Ac excision and that the transposed Ac element was reintegrated into the rice genome. Analysis of DNA sequences at 14 empty donor sites indicated that the Ac element was excised in rice in a similar manner as maize. The excision of an Ac mutant in which a 1.3 kbp Tn903 fragment was inserted at a unique BamHI site so as to disrupt binding of the putative transposase was not detected by DNA analysis. These results demonstrated that the maize Ac element might be used as an effective heterologous transposon for mutagenesis and gene tagging in rice, an important food crops.
18492871	Leaves of flowering plants are produced from the shoot apical meristem at regular intervals, with the time that elapses between the formation of two successive leaf primordia defining the plastochron. We have identified two genetic axes affecting plastochron length in Arabidopsis thaliana. One involves microRNA156 (miR156), which targets a series of SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE (SPL) genes. In situ hybridization studies and misexpression experiments demonstrate that miR156 is a quantitative, rather than spatial, modulator of SPL expression in leaf primordia and that SPL activity nonautonomously inhibits initiation of new leaves at the shoot apical meristem. The second axis is exemplified by a redundantly acting pair of cytochrome P450 genes, CYP78A5/KLUH and CYP78A7, which are likely orthologs of PLASTOCHRON1 of rice (Oryza sativa). Inactivation of CYP78A5, which is expressed at the periphery of the shoot apical meristem, accelerates the leaf initiation rate, whereas cyp78a5 cyp78a7 double mutants often die as embryos with supernumerary cotyledon primordia. The effects of both miR156-targeted SPL genes and CYP78A5 on organ size are correlated with changes in plastochron length, suggesting a potential compensatory mechanism that links the rate at which leaves are produced to final leaf size.
18493037	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is a unicellular green alga, the lineage of which diverged from that of land plants >1 billion years ago. Using the powerful small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) mining platform to screen the C. reinhardtii genome, we identified 322 snoRNA genes grouped into 118 families. The 74 box C/D families can potentially guide methylation at 96 sites of ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) and snRNAs, and the 44 box H/ACA families can potentially guide pseudouridylation at 62 sites. Remarkably, 242 of the snoRNA genes are arranged into 76 clusters, of which 77% consist of homologous genes produced by small local tandem duplications. At least 70 snoRNA gene clusters are found within introns of protein-coding genes. Although not exhaustive, this analysis reveals that C. reinhardtii has the highest number of intronic snoRNA gene clusters among eukaryotes. The prevalence of intronic snoRNA gene clusters in C. reinhardtii is similar to that of rice but in contrast with the one-snoRNA-per-intron organization of vertebrates and fungi and with that of Arabidopsis thaliana in which only a few intronic snoRNA gene clusters were identified. This analysis of C. reinhardtii snoRNA gene organization shows the functional importance of introns in a single-celled organism and provides evolutionary insight into the origin of intron-encoded RNAs in the plant lineage.
18493049	To understand nuclear mRNA polyadenylation mechanisms in the model alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, we generated a data set of 16,952 in silico-verified poly(A) sites from EST sequencing traces based on Chlamydomonas Genome Assembly v.3.1. Analysis of this data set revealed a unique and complex polyadenylation signal profile that is setting Chlamydomonas apart from other organisms. In contrast to the high-AU content in the 3'-UTRs of other organisms, Chlamydomonas shows a high-guanylate content that transits to high-cytidylate around the poly(A) site. The average length of the 3'-UTR is 595 nucleotides (nt), significantly longer than that of Arabidopsis and rice. The dominant poly(A) signal, UGUAA, was found in 52% of the near-upstream elements, and its occurrence may be positively correlated with higher gene expression levels. The UGUAA signal also exists in Arabidopsis and in some mammalian genes but mainly in the far-upstream elements, suggesting a shift in function. The C-rich region after poly(A) sites with unique signal elements is a characteristic downstream element that is lacking in higher plants. We also found a high level of alternative polyadenylation in the Chlamydomonas genome, with a range of up to 33% of the 4057 genes analyzed having at least two unique poly(A) sites and approximately 1% of these genes having poly(A) sites residing in predicted coding sequences, introns, and 5'-UTRs. These potentially contribute to transcriptome diversity and gene expression regulation.
18493723	Ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs) are N-glycosidases that inhibit protein synthesis by depurinating rRNA. Despite their identification more than 25 years ago, little is known about their biological functions. Here, we report a genome-wide identification of the RIP family in rice based on the complete genome sequence analysis. Our data show that rice genome encodes at least 31 members of this family and they all belong to type 1 RIP genes. This family might have evolved in parallel to species evolution and genome-wide duplications represent the major mechanism for this family expansion. Subsequently, we analyzed their expression under biotic (bacteria and fungus infection), abiotic (cold, drought and salinity) and the phytohormone ABA treatment. These data showed that some members of this family were expressed in various tissues with differentiated expression abundances whereas several members showed no expression under normal growth conditions or various environmental stresses. On the other hand, the expression of many RIP members was regulated by various abiotic and biotic stresses. All these data suggested that specific members of the RIP family in rice might play important roles in biotic and abiotic stress-related biological processes and function as a regulator of various environmental cues and hormone signaling. They may be potentially useful in improving plant tolerance to various abiotic and biotic stresses by over-expressing or suppressing these genes.
18493924	Late watergrass [Echinochloa phyllopogon (Stapf.) Koss.] is a major weed of Californian rice that has evolved P450-mediated metabolic resistance to multiple herbicides. Resistant (R) populations are also poorly controlled by the recently introduced herbicide clomazone. The authors assessed whether this cross-resistance was also P450 mediated, and whether R plants also had reduced sensitivity to photooxidation. Understanding mechanism(s) of resistance facilitates the design of herbicide management strategies to delay resistance evolution. Ratios (R/S) of R to susceptible (S) GR(50) were near 2.0. [(14)C]Clomazone uptake was similar in R and S plants. Clomazone and its metabolite 5-ketoclomazone reduced chlorophyll and carotenoids in S more than in R plants. The P450 inhibitors disulfoton and 1-aminobenzo-triazole (ABT) safened clomazone in R and S plants. Disulfoton safened 5-ketoclomazone only in S plants, while ABT synergized 5-ketoclomazone mostly against S plants. Paraquat was more toxic in S than in R plants. Cross-resistance to clomazone explains failures to control R plants in rice fields, and safening by P450 inhibitors suggests that oxidative activation of clomazone is needed for toxicity to E. phyllopogon. Clomazone resistance requires mitigation of 5-ketoclomazone toxicity, but P450 detoxification may not significantly confer resistance, as P450 inhibitors poorly synergized 5-ketoclopmazone in R plants. Responses to paraquat suggest research on mechanisms to mitigate photooxidation in R and S plants is needed.
18493927	Integrated pest management (IPM) technology has been disseminated since 1989 in Indonesia to cut down pesticide use, but the adoption and diffusion of the technology are still debated. This study aims to estimate the models of demand for pesticides and to analyse the impact of IPM technology on pesticide use. Aggregate cross-section time series data from 1990-1998 are used. The results show that IPM technology reduces the use of pesticides by improving the process of rice production, such that pesticides are more efficiently used. In this case, the IPM technology is not a pest control technique. CONCLUSION There is an indication that IPM technology has been adopted by farmers. This is evidence that the IPM programme in Indonesia was successful in this area.
18494071	Association of silica with diseases like cancers has been determined previously. This study was designed to determine the quantity of silis in flour produced in Golestan Province, and its relation to esophageal cancer (EC). We took flour samples from all flour millings in Golestan Province. Base-melting method in nickel cruise was used at 550 centigrade. The extract was reduced with acids. Different silis concentrations in various regions were compared. P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. The median silis concentration was 0.0030 g, the mean silis concentration was 0.008760 +/- 0.004265 g in each 100 g flour. The difference of mean silis concentrations in various regions was not significant. No high level of silica was found in the flour of Golestan Province. We could not find any significant difference in various areas between silica contaminations. Studies on the consumed bread and rice in various regions of Golestan Province can be helpful.
18494308	Oryza grandiglumis is a wild species of rice endemic to tropical America. This species was first found in 1998 in the wetlands of Cao Negro, located in the northern part of Costa Rica. Twenty five plants of O. grandiglumis were processed for scanning electron microscope. An ultrastructural description of the leaf blade, ligule, auricles, spikelet and caryopsis, with an emphasis on structures of taxonomic value. The leaf blade has a characteristic cuticular wax pattern, composed of dense rod-like structures, and is surrounded by papillae, zipper-like silica cells, abundant bulky prickle trichomes, and hooked trichomes. The blade's edge has three rows of hooked prickle trichomes of various sizes. The auricles wrapped the culm, with long attenuated trichomes at the edges; the base was surrounded by oblong cells. The ligule is a blunt membrane covered by short prickle trichomes. Spikelet morphology is characteristic of the Poaceae family, but the sterile lemmas were nearly as long as the fertile lemmas, and they have an unique crown-like structure of lignified spines between the rachilla and the fertile lemmas. Comparison with Brazilian specimens of O. grandiglumis revealed little differences in the ultrastructural characteristics.
18494331	The population dynamics of the small forest rice rat Microryzomys minutus, a murid rodent that occurs in the high altitudes of the northern and central Andes, was studied in disturbed and primary environments in a cloud forest of the Venezuelan Andes (Juan Pablo Pealoza National Park, 8 degrees 11'N, 71 degrees 49'W). We collected 121 animals (66 female female and 55 male male) between 1995 and 1998, using pitfall traps with formalin. Adult males were heavier than adult females. Relative abundance was much greater in the disturbed environments (over 10 individuals in some periods) than in the primary cloud forest: 4-8 individuals. In the disturbed environments, the rats were extremely abundant in the first sampling period, and less frequent afterwards. In the cropland, abundance showed some fluctuations during the study and displayed two small abundance peaks in March-June 1997 and 1998. In the mined area, the rats had irregular fluctuations until March-June 1997 and were not recorded in July-October 1997. The occurrence of this rat in both disturbed and natural habitats confirms the wide ecological tolerance of this species.
18494522	From the Egyptian medicinal plant Polygonum senegalense the fungal endophyte Alternaria sp. was isolated. Extracts of the fungus grown either in liquid culture or on solid rice media exhibited cytotoxic activity when tested in vitro against L5178Y cells. Chromatographic separation of the extracts yielded 15 natural products, out of which seven were new compounds, with both fungal extracts differing considerably with regard to their secondary metabolites. Compounds 1, 2, 3, 6, and 7 showed cytotoxic activity with EC 50 values ranging from 1.7 to 7.8 microg/mL. When analyzed in vitro for their inhibitory potential against 24 different protein kinases, compounds 1- 3, 5- 8, and 15 inhibited several of these enzymes (IC 50 values 0.22-9.8 microg/mL). Interestingly, compounds 1, 3, and 6 were also identified as constituents of an extract derived from healthy leaves of the host plant P. senegalense, thereby indicating that the production of natural products by the endophyte proceeds also under in situ conditions within the plant host.
18495384	We made genome-wide analyses to explore the evolutionary process of the SBP-box gene family. We identified 120 SBP-box genes from nine species representing the main green plant lineages: green alga, moss, lycophyte, gymnosperm and angiosperm. A maximum-likelihood phylogenetic tree was constructed using the protein sequences of the DNA-binding domain of SBP-box genes (SBP-domain). Our results revealed that all SBP-box genes of green alga clustered into a single clade (CR group), while all genes from land-plants fell into two distinct groups. Group I had a single copy in each species except for poplar while group II had several members in each species and can be divided into several subgroups. The SBP-domain encoded by all SBP-box genes possesses two zinc fingers. The C-terminal zinc finger of both group I and group II had the same C2HC motif while their N-terminal zinc finger showed different signatures, C4 in group I and C3H in group II. The patterns of exon-intron structure in Arabidopsis and rice SBP-box genes were consistent with the phylogenetic results. A target site of microRNA miR156 was highly conserved among land-plant SBP-box genes. Our results suggested that the SBP-box gene family might have originated from a common ancestor of green plants, followed by duplication and divergence in each lineage including exon-intron loss processes.
18495765	We previously showed that herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) immediate-early (IE) protein ICP27 can posttranscriptionally stimulate mRNA accumulation from a transfected viral late gene encoding glycoprotein C (gC) (K. D. Perkins, J. Gregonis, S. Borge, and S. A. Rice, J. Virol. 77:9872-9884, 2003). We began this study by asking whether ICP27 homologs from other herpesviruses can also mediate this activity. Although the homologs from varicella-zoster virus (VZV) and human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) were inactive, the homolog from bovine herpesvirus 4 (BHV-4), termed HORF1/2, was a very efficient transactivator. Surprisingly, most of the mRNA produced via HORF1/2 transactivation was 225 nucleotides shorter than expected due to the removal of a previously undescribed intron from the gC transcript. We found that the gC mRNA produced in the absence of transactivation was also mostly spliced. In contrast, gC mRNA produced by ICP27 transactivation was predominantly unspliced. Based on these results, we conclude that ICP27 has two distinct effects on the transfected gC gene: it (i) stimulates mRNA accumulation and (ii) promotes the retention of an intron. Interestingly, the spliced transcript encodes a variant of gC that lacks its transmembrane domain and is secreted from transfected cells. As the gC splicing signals are conserved among several HSV-1 strains, we investigated whether the variant gC is expressed during viral infection. We report here that both the spliced transcript and its encoded protein are readily detected in Vero cells infected with three different laboratory strains of wild-type HSV-1. Moreover, the variant gC is efficiently secreted from infected cells. We have designated this alternate form of the protein as gCsec. As the extracellular domain of gC is known to bind heparan sulfate-containing proteoglycans and to inhibit the complement cascade via an interaction with complement component C3b, we speculate that gCsec could function as a secreted virulence factor.
18496756	RING finger proteins comprise a large family and play key roles in regulating growth/developmental processes, hormone signaling and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. A rice gene, OsBIRF1, encoding a putative RING-H2 finger protein, was cloned and identified. OsBIRF1 encodes a 396 amino acid protein belonging to the ATL family characterized by a conserved RING-H2 finger domain (C-X2-C-X15-C-X1-H-X2-H-X2-C-X10-C-X2-C), a transmembrane domain at the N-terminal, a basic amino acid rich region and a characteristic GLD region. Expression of OsBIRF1 was up-regulated in rice seedlings after treatment with benzothaidiazole, salicylic acid, l-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid and jasmonic acid, and was induced differentially in incompatible but not compatible interactions between rice and Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of blast disease. Transgenic tobacco plants that constitutively express OsBIRF1 exhibit enhanced disease resistance against tobacco mosaic virus and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci and elevated expression levels of defense-related genes, e.g. PR-1, PR-2, PR-3 and PR-5. The OsBIRF1-overexpressing transgenic tobacco plants show increased oxidative stress tolerance to exogenous treatment with methyl viologen and H2O2, and up-regulate expression of oxidative stress-related genes. Reduced ABA sensitivity in root elongation and increased drought tolerance in seed germination were also observed in OsBIRF1 transgenic tobacco plants. Furthermore, the transgenic tobacco plants show longer roots and higher plant heights as compared with the wild-type plants, suggesting that overexpression of OsBIRF1 promote plant growth. These results demonstrate that OsBIRF1 has pleiotropic effects on growth and defense response against multiple abiotic and biotic stresses.
18496762	Antibody response produced by Newcastle disease virus (NDV, strain I-2) when given orally through oiled rice to chickens was determined. Serum samples were collected before and at a weekly interval for 28 days after vaccination and tested for haemagglutination inhibition (HI) antibody to NDV. The results showed 7 days after vaccination HI antibody titre log(2) was 3.8. Moreover, 14 and 28 days after vaccination HI antibody titre log(2) reached 6.5 and 8.0, respectively. All unvaccinated chickens were negative to NDV antibody throughout the study. Significant finding from the present study is that 7 days after vaccination chickens had produced protective antibody against NDV; this is in contrast to previous studies. Therefore, I-2 vaccine coated on the oiled rice is efficacious as it protects chickens from challenge with NDV.
18497165	Living plants transport substantial amounts of organic material into the soil. This process, called rhizodeposition, provides the substrate for the rhizospheric microbial community. In this study, a laboratory-scale sediment microbial fuel cell, of which the anode is positioned in the rhizosphere of the rice plants, is used to microbially oxidize the plant-derived organics. An electrical current was generated through the in situ oxidation of rhizodeposits from living rice plants. The electrical power output of a sediment microbial fuel cell was found to be a factor 7 higher in the presence of actively growing plants. This process offers the potential of light-driven power generation from living plants in a nondestructive way. Sustainable power productions up to 330 W ha(-1) could be attributed to the oxidation of the plant-derived compounds.
18499074	The quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for the dead leaf rate (DLR) and the dead seedling rate (DSR) at the different rice growing periods after transplanting under alkaline stress were identified using an F(2:3) population, which included 200 individuals and lines derived from a cross between two japonica rice cultivars Gaochan 106 and Changbai 9 with microsatellite markers. The DLR detected at 20 days to 62 days after transplanting under alkaline stress showed continuous normal or near normal distributions in F(3) lines, which was the quantitative trait controlled by multiple genes. The DSR showed a continuous distribution with 3 or 4 peaks and was the quantitative trait controlled by main and multiple genes when rice was grown for 62 days after transplanting under alkaline stress. Thirteen QTLs associated with DLR were detected at 20 days to 62 days after transplanting under alkaline stress. Among these, qDLR9-2 located in RM5786-RM160 on chromosome 9 was detected at 34 days, 41 days, 48 days, 55 days, and 62 days, respectively; qDLR4 located in RM3524-RM3866 on chromosome 4 was detected at 34 days, 41 days, and 48 days, respectively; qDLR7-1 located in RM3859-RM320 on chromosome 7 was detected at 20 days and 27 days; and qDLR6-2 in RM1340-RM5957 on chromosome 6 was detected at 55 days and 62 days, respectively. The alleles of both qDLR9-2 and qDLR4 were derived from alkaline sensitive parent "Gaochan106". The alleles of both qDLR7-1 and qDLR6-2 were from alkaline tolerant parent Changbai 9. These gene actions showed dominance and over dominance primarily. Six QTLs associated with DSR were detected at 62 days after transplanting under alkaline stress. Among these, qDSR6-2 and qDSR8 were located in RM1340-RM5957 on chromosome 6 and in RM3752-RM404 on chromosome 8, respectively, which were associated with DSR and accounted for 20.32% and 18.86% of the observed phenotypic variation, respectively; qDSR11-2 and qDSR11-3 were located in RM536-RM479 and RM2596-RM286 on chromosome 11, respectively, which were associated with DSR explaining 25.85% and 15.41% of the observed phenotypic variation, respectively. The marker flanking distances of these QTLs were quite far except that of qDSR6-2, which should be researched further.
18499075	Vacuolar H(+)-ATPase was regarded as a key enzyme promoting the fiber cell elongation in cotton (Gossypium hirsuturm L.) through regulating turgor-driven pressure involved in polarity expansion of single cell fiber. The DET3, a V-ATPase subunit C, plays an important role in assembling subunits and regulating the enzyme activity, and is involved in Brassinosteroid-induced cell elongation. To analyze the function of GhDET3 on the elongation of cotton fibers, seven candidates of ESTs were screened and contigged for a 5'-upstream sequence, and the 3'-RACE technique was used to clone the 3'-downstream sequence for the full length of GhDET3 gene. The full length of the target clone was 1,340 bp, including a 10 bp 5'-UTR, an ORF of 1,134 bp, and a 196 bp 3'-UTR. This cDNA sequence encoded a polypeptide of 377 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 43 kDa and a basic isoelectric point of 5.58. Furthermore, a length of 3,410 bp sequence from genomic DNA of GhDET3 was also cloned by PCR. The deduced amino acid sequence had a high homology with DET3 from Arabidopsis, rice, and maize. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that the GhDET3 expression pattern was ubiquitous in all the tissues and organs detected. The result also revealed that the accumulation of GhDET3 mRNA reached the highest profile at the fiber elongation stage in 12 DPA (days post anthesis) fibers, compared with the lowest level at the fiber initiation stage in 0 DPA ovules (with fibers). The transcript accumulation in fibers and ovules shared the similar variation tendency. In addition, in vitro ovule culture experiment demonstrated that exogenous 24-EBL treatment to 4 DPA ovules (with fibers) was capable of increasing the expression level of GhDET3, and the mRNA accumulation of GhDET3 increased in transgenic FBP7::GhDET2 cotton fibers in vivo. These results indicate that GhDET3 gene plays a crucial role in cotton fiber elongation.
18500665	Variation in the fungicide, 4,5,6,7-phthalide, in water was investigated in order to evaluate the runoff of the fungicide after aerial application to paddy fields by a radio-controlled helicopter. The survey was conducted for 4 months after the application. The average and maximum concentrations of phthalide were 3.7-4.4 microg/L and 30.5-33.8 microg/L in the paddy fields, 0.37-0.64 microg/L and 2.7-7.5 microg/L in the drainage channels, and 0.18 and 0.83 microg/L in a river, respectively. The runoff ratios of the aerially applied phthalide from the paddy fields into the drainage channels were calculated to be 1.7-2.4%.
18500775	We characterized yield-relevant characters and their variations over genotypes and environments (locations and years) by examining two rice varieties (9746 and Jinfeng) with high yield potential. 9746 and Jinfeng were planted in two locations of Shanghai, China, during 2005 and 2006. The results show that there was a large variation in grain yield between locations and years. The realization of high yield potential for the two types of rice was closely related to the improved sink size, such as more panicles per square meter or grains per panicle. Stem and leaf biomasses were mainly accumulated from tillering stage to heading stage, and showed slow decline during grain filling. Meanwhile, some photosynthetic characters including net photosynthesis rate (Pn), leaf area index (LAI), specific leaf area (SLA), fluorescence parameter (maximum quantum yield of PSII, Fv/Fm), chlorophyll content (expressed as SPAD value), as well as nutrient (N, P, K) uptake were also measured to determine their variations over genotypes and environments and their relationships with grain yield. Although there were significant differences between years or locations for most measurements, SLA at tillering and heading stages, Fv/Fm and LAI at heading stage, stem biomass at heading and maturity stages, and leaf nitrogen concentration at tillering and heading stages remained little changed, indicating their possible applications as selectable characters in breeding programs. It was also found that stem nitrogen accumulation at tillering stage is one of the most important and stable traits for high yield formation.
18500783	Disparity in the root morphology of six rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes varying in potassium (K) efficiency was studied with three K levels: 5 mg/L (low), 10 mg/L (moderate) and 40 mg/L (adequate) in hydroponic culture. Morphological parameters included root length, surface area, volume and count of lateral roots, as well as fine (diameter<0.2 mm) and thick (diameter>0.2 mm) roots. The results indicate that the root growth of all genotypes was reduced under low K, but moderate K deficiency increased the root length of the efficient genotypes. At deficient and moderate K levels, all the efficient rice genotypes developed more fine roots (diameter<0.2 mm) than the inefficient ones. Both fine root count and root surface area were found to be the best parameters to portray K stress in rice. In accordance with the root morphology, higher K concentrations were noted in shoots of the efficient genotypes when grown at moderate and deficient K levels, indicating that root morphology parameters are involved in root uptake for K and in the translocation of K up to shoots. K deficiency affected not only the root morphology, but also the root ultra-structure. The roots of high-efficient genotypes had stronger tolerance to K deficient stress for root membrane damage, and could maintain the developed root architecture to adapt to the low K growth medium.
18501917	Well crystallized silicalite-1 has been obtained from three sources of amorphous silica, namely, rice hull ashes, commercial Davisil, and a fume silica from Aldrich. The silicas were first dissolved in glycerol according to a recently described reaction. This reaction transforms rapidly and efficiently large surface area silicates into poly-alkoxide gels. It can be schematized as an etherification of an alcohol function of glycerol by the weakly acid surface silanol groups. The facile hydrolysis of the alkoxide permits the preparation of relatively pure and reactive silica, keeping the mesoporous character of the parent starting material. We insist on the mesoporous character of the solids obtained upon hydrolyzing the organo-silicic gel because we believe the gel plays a role of template in the secondary synthesis of mesoporous structures. The hydrolysis is carried out in presence of a structure directing agent, namely tetra-propylammonium hydroxide, TPAOH. After aging, the residue is dried and calcined. The first advantage of using the organo-silicic gel is probably related to the high degree of depolymerization of silica, witness by the C/Si ratio. The second one, more subtle to define, is to provide an intermediate silica with hydrophilic a hydrophobic regions, interfering differently with the surfactant. After calcination at 500 degrees C, well crystallized silicalite-1 is obtained. The texture of the starting silica influences the textural characteristics of the final silicalite-1.
18503045	The roles of cysteine proteinases (CP) in leaf protein accumulation and composition were investigated in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants expressing the rice cystatin, OC-1. The OC-1 protein was present in the cytosol, chloroplasts, and vacuole of the leaves of OC-1 expressing (OCE) plants. Changes in leaf protein composition and turnover caused by OC-1-dependent inhibition of CP activity were assessed in 8-week-old plants using proteomic analysis. Seven hundred and sixty-five soluble proteins were detected in the controls compared to 860 proteins in the OCE leaves. A cyclophilin, a histone, a peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase, and two ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) activase isoforms were markedly altered in abundance in the OCE leaves. The senescence-related decline in photosynthesis and Rubisco activity was delayed in the OCE leaves. Similarly, OCE leaves maintained higher leaf Rubisco activities and protein than controls following dark chilling. Immunogold labelling studies with specific antibodies showed that Rubisco was present in Rubisco vesicular bodies (RVB) as well as in the chloroplasts of leaves from 8-week-old control and OCE plants. Western blot analysis of plants at 14 weeks after both genotypes had flowered revealed large increases in the amount of Rubisco protein in the OCE leaves compared to controls. These results demonstrate that CPs are involved in Rubisco turnover in leaves under optimal and stress conditions and that extra-plastidic RVB bodies are present even in young source leaves. Furthermore, these data form the basis for a new model of Rubisco protein turnover involving CPs and RVBs.
18503245	Arsenic (As) uptake in human occurs via the food chain mainly. The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives has established the provisional tolerable weekly intake level for As as an inorganic As (iAs) value, because iAs in food is much more toxic than organic As. In this study, we studied an acid based partial-digestion method for the complete extraction of arsenicals from rice. HPLC/ICP-MS was used to determine the concentration of iAs selectively. The conditions adopted to extract arsenicals from a 0.5 g of finely ground rice sample were addition of 2 mL of 0.15 mol/L nitric acid and heating at 80 degrees C for 2 hr. The LOD and LOQ for iAs were 0.0024 and 0.0079 mg/kg dry weight, respectively. Recovery studies showed good accuracy. When the method was applied to ten short-grain brown rice samples, the iAs concentrations were 0.108-0.227 mg/kg dry weight and the total As concentrations were 0.118-0.260 mg/kg dry weight. Although dimethylarsinic acid was also detected in most samples, the percentage of iAs content in total As content was 62.2-96.3%. Thus, iAs was the principal As species in the short-grain brown rice samples tested.
18503501	Reports of the use of rice storage protein gene promoters to express transgenes in rice grain have demonstrated that rice grain can be used as a production platform for end-use quality or seed-based edible vaccines. The generation of transgenic rice with multitraits (gene stacking), which requires the use of multiple transgenes under the control of different promoters, necessitates the use of promoters from rice and other cereals, as this is highly advantageous in reducing homology-based transcriptional gene silencing. Using the green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) as a reporter gene and a transgenic rice platform, promoters of storage protein and non-storage protein genes from barley, wheat and rice were compared with regard to their spatial and temporal control of expression. Storage protein promoters from barley (549-bp B-hordein and 433-bp D-hordein) and wheat (425-bp high-molecular-weight glutenin) directed the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in endosperm but not embryo; however, expression was leaky, as it was also observed in seed maternal tissues, leaf and root tissues. As expected, the rice promoters (1350-bp alpha-glutelin B-1 and 1007-bp alpha-globulin) directed the endosperm-specific expression of GFP in transgenic rice. Our results indicate that seed-specific promoters from barley and wheat, although containing endosperm and GCN4 motifs, which are important for endosperm-specific expression in rice, may not be spatially regulated in the same manner as they are in their native species. The analysis of GFP expression under the control of various promoters in rice grain indicates that promoters from other cereals can drive high levels of endosperm-specific expression in rice, but their utility for seed-specific expression may depend on their tissue specificity.
18504357	Plants have always been at the forefront of genetic and cytogenetic studies, but it was only following the explosion of genomic tools linked to the development of Arabidopsis thaliana as a model, that the first genes involved in plant meiosis were cloned in the late 1990s. Since then, in less than 10 years, close to fifty plant meiotic genes have been functionally characterized, mainly in Arabidopsis but also in rice and maize. In this review, we give an overview of this decade of discovery, with emphasis on the strategies that have been used for meiotic gene identification. We also highlight particularly interesting breakthroughs that these mutant and gene screens made possible.
18504358	We review the current status of our understanding and knowledge of the genes and proteins controlling meiosis in five major cereals, rye, wheat, barley, rice and maize. For each crop, we describe the genetic and genomic infrastructure available to investigators, before considering the inventory of genes and proteins that have roles to play in this process. Emphasis is given throughout as to how translational genomic and proteomic approaches have enabled us to circumvent some of the intractable features of this important group of plants.
18504539	During the last 12,000 years, different cultures around the world have domesticated cereal crops. Several studies investigated the evolutionary history and domestication of cereals such as wheat in the Middle East, rice in Asia or maize in America. The domestication process in Africa has led to the emergence of important cereal crops like pearl millet in Sahelian Africa. In this study, we used 27 microsatellite loci to analyze 84 wild accessions and 355 cultivated accessions originating from the whole pearl millet distribution area in Africa and Asia. We found significantly higher diversity in the wild pearl millet group. The cultivated pearl millet sample possessed 81% of the alleles and 83% of the genetic diversity of the wild pearl millet sample. Using Bayesian approaches, we identified intermediate genotypes between the cultivated and wild groups. We then analyzed the phylogenetic relationship among accessions not showing introgression and found that a monophyletic origin of cultivated pearl millet in West Africa is the most likely scenario supported by our data set.
18504649	The inheritance of 31 amplicons from short and long primer RAPD was tested for segregating ratios in two families of the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, and they were found to be inherited in a simple Mendelian fashion. These markers could now be used in population genetics studies of N. lugens. Ten populations of N. lugens were collected from five locations in Malaysia. Each location had two sympatric populations. Cluster and principal coordinate analyses based on genetic distance along with AMOVA revealed that the rice-infesting populations (with high esterase activity) at five localities clustered together as a group, and Leersia-infesting populations (with low esterase activity) at the same localities formed another distinct cluster. Two amplicons from primers OPD03 (0.65 kb) and peh#6 (1.0 kb) could be considered diagnostic bands, which were fixed in the Leersia-infesting populations. These results represent evidence of a sibling species in the N. lugens complex.
18505887	The origins of the Asian cultivated rice Oryza sativa from its wild ancestor O. rufipogon have been debated for decades. The question mainly concerns whether it originated monophyletically or polyphyletically. To shed light on the origins and demographic history of rice domestication, we genotyped a total of 92 individual plants from the two O. sativa subspecies and O. rufipogon for 60 microsatellites. An approximate Bayesian method was applied to estimate demographic parameters for O. rufipogon vs. O. sativa ssp. indica and O. rufipogon vs. O. sativa ssp. japonica. We showed that the japonica subspecies suffered a more severe bottleneck than the indica subspecies and thus a greater loss of genetic variation during its domestication. Across microsatellite loci there is a significant positive correlation in the reduction of genetic diversity between the two subspecies. The results suggest that completely independent domestication of indica and japonica subspecies may not explain our data and that there is at least partial sharing of their ancestral populations and/or recent gene flow between them.
18506045	The hypothesis that the linguistic deficit presented by children with specific language impairment (SLI) is caused by limited cognitive resources (e.g., S. Ellis Weismer & L. Hesketh, 1996) was tested against the hypothesis of a limitation in linguistic knowledge (e.g., M. L. Rice, K. Wexler, & P. Cleave, 1995). The study examined the influence of the argument-structure complexity of a target sentence on the production of grammatical morphemes in French children with SLI compared with younger children matched for grammatical level in production (GL) and children of the same chronological age (CA). A sentence production task was used where the target sentences varied in terms of argument complexity and length. The results indicated that children with SLI used articles and auxiliaries in obligatory contexts significantly less often than both the GL and CA control groups: More complex argument structures elicited the highest number of grammatical morpheme omissions; this effect was larger in children with SLI than in the GL group and was independent of the length of the sentences, which failed to show any influence on the production of grammatical morphemes. These results support the hypothesis that grammatical-morpheme deficit in SLI depends at least in part on limited processing capacities.
18506430	Microwave digestion and isotope dilution inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ID-ICP-SFMS) has been applied to the determination of Pb in rice flour. In order to achieve highly precise determination of low concentrations of Pb, the digestion blank for Pb was reduced to 0.21 ng g(-1) after optimization of the digestion conditions, in which 20 mL analysis solution was obtained after digestion of 0.5 g rice flour. The observed value of Pb in a non-fat milk powder certified reference material (CRM), NIST SRM 1549, was 16.8 +/- 0.8 ng g(-1) (mean +/- expanded uncertainty, k = 2; n = 5), which agreed with the certified value of 19 +/- 3 ng g(-1) and indicated the effectiveness of the method. Analytical results for Pb in three brown rice flour CRMs, NIST SRM 1568a, NIES CRM 10-a, and NIES CRM 10-b, were 7.32 +/- 0.24 ng g(-1) (n = 5), 1010 +/- 10 ng g(-1) (n = 5), and 1250 +/- 20 ng g(-1) (n = 5), respectively. The concentration of Pb in a candidate white rice flour reference material (RM) sample prepared by the National Metrology Institute of Japan (NMIJ) was observed to be 4.36 +/- 0.28 ng g(-1) (n = 10 bottles).
1850646	Ion-pairing extraction and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were employed for assaying moniliformin (a fungal toxin) content in the corn (Shaanxi) and rice (Yunnan) samples collected from families suffering from Ke-shan disease. The highest contents were found to be 264 micrograms/kg (corn) and 252 micrograms/kg (rice), while a rice sample from Beijing market showed none. The identity of moniliformin was confirmed by 2D-UV detection and co-HPLC with a synthetic toxin sample. These results strongly support the view that moniliformin is a pathogenic factor of Ke-shan disease.
18506480	Cross tolerance is a phenomenon that occurs when a plant, in resisting one form of stress, develops a tolerance to another form. Pretreatment with nonlethal heat shock has been known to protect cells from metal stress. In this study, we found that the treatment of rice roots with more than 25 muM of Cu(2+) caused cell death. However, heat shock pretreatment attenuated Cu(2+)-induced cell death. The mechanisms of the cross tolerance phenomenon between heat shock and Cu(2+) stress were investigated by pretreated rice roots with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX). CHX effectively block heat shock protection, suggesting that protection of Cu(2+)-induced cell death by heat shock was dependent on de novo protein synthesis. In addition, heat pretreatment downregulated ROS production and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activities, both of which can be greatly elicited by Cu(2+) stress in rice roots. Moreover, the addition of purified recombinant GST-OsHSP70 fusion proteins inhibited Cu(2+)-enhanced MAPK activities in an in vitro kinase assay. Furthermore, loss of heat shock protection was observed in Arabidopsis mkk2 and mpk6 but not in mpk3 mutants under Cu(2+) stress. Taken together, these results suggest that the interaction of OsHSP70 with MAPKs may contribute to the cellular protection in rice roots from excessive Cu(2+) toxicity.
18506581	Gibberellic acid (GA) is both necessary and sufficient to promote fiber elongation in cultured fertilized ovules of the upland cotton variety Coker 312. This is likely due to the temporal and spatial regulation of GA biosynthesis, perception, and subsequent signal transduction that leads to alterations in gene expression and morphology. Our results indicate that the initiation of fiber elongation by the application of GA to cultured ovules corresponds with increased expression of genes that encode xyloglucan endotransglycosylase/hydrolase (XTH) and expansin (EXP) that are involved in promoting cell elongation. To gain a better understanding of the GA signaling components in cotton, that lead to such changes in gene expression, two GA receptor genes (GhGID1a and GhGID1b) and two DELLA protein genes (GhSLR1a and GhSLR1b) that are orthologous to the rice GA receptor (GID1) and the rice DELLA gene (SLR1), respectively, were characterized. Similar to the GA biosynthetic genes, expression of GhGID1a and GhGID1b is under the negative regulation by GA while GA positively regulates GhSLR1a. Recombinant GST-GhGID1s showed GA-binding activity in vitro that was augmented in the presence of GhSLR1a, GhSLR1b, or rice SLR1, indicating complex formation between the receptors and repressor proteins. This was further supported by the GA-dependent interaction of these proteins in yeast cells. Ectopic expression of the GhGID1a in the rice gid1-3 mutant plants rescued the GA-insensitive dwarf phenotype, which demonstrates that it is a functional GA receptor. Furthermore, ectopic expression of GhSLR1b in wild type Arabidopsis led to reduced growth and upregulated expression of DELLA-responsive genes.
18506582	We present a cost-effective DNA pooling strategy for fine mapping of a single Mendelian gene in controlled crosses. The theoretical argument suggests that it is potentially possible for a single-stage pooling approach to reduce the overall experimental expense considerably by balancing costs for genotyping and sample collection. Further, the genotyping burden can be reduced through multi-stage pooling. Numerical results are provided for practical guidelines. For example, the genotyping effort can be reduced to only a small fraction of that needed for individual genotyping at a small loss of estimation accuracy or at a cost of increasing sample sizes slightly when recombination rates are 0.5% or less. An optimal two-stage pooling scheme can reduce the amount of genotyping to 19.5%, 14.5% and 6.4% of individual genotyping efforts for identifying a gene within 1, 0.5, and 0.1 cM, respectively. Finally, we use a genetic data set for mapping the rice xl(t) gene to demonstrate the feasibility and efficiency of the DNA pooling strategy. Taken together, the results demonstrate that this DNA pooling strategy can greatly reduce the genotyping burden and the overall cost in fine mapping experiments.
18506672	Metsulfuron-methyl is widely used for controlling many annual grasses and broadleaf weeds in cereal crops. Nonetheless, increasing evidence has demonstrated that even extremely low levels of metsulfuron-methyl residues in soil can be toxic to subsequent crops or non-target organisms. The behavior of herbicides in soils is mostly related to their residual forms. The intent of the present study was to investigate the dynamics of extractable residues (ERs) and non-extractable residues (NERs) of (14)C-metsulfuron-methyl in twelve Chinese paddy soils and their relationships to soil properties. ERs decreased gradually after application, whereas NERs increased rapidly during the initial 28 days, and gradually decreased thereafter. ERs and NERs were respectively 10.1-67.9% and 5.6-28.7% of applied radioactivity in soils at 224 days after application. ERs correlated positively with soil pH and silt fractions, and negatively with microbial biomass carbon (MBC) and clay fractions, but the opposite was observed for NERs. Both ERs and NERs may be present in the soil at the time of planting following rice crops, and the risk of phytotoxic effects needs to be considered. Soil pH, MBC and clay/silt fractions were the main factors in affecting the amounts of both ERs and NERs of metsulfuron-methyl in the tested soils.
18506673	Buprofezin has been used for many years to control Nilaparvata lugens (Stl). Assessment of susceptibility change in the insect is essential for maintaining control efficiency and resistance management. Eleven-year surveys showed that most field populations were susceptible before 2004. However, substantially higher levels of resistance (up to 28-fold) were found in most of the rice fields in China after 2004. A field population was collected and periodically selected for buprofezin resistance in the laboratory. After 65 generations (56 were selected), the colony successfully obtained 3599-fold resistance to buprofezin. Synergism tests showed that O,O-diethyl-O-phenyl phosphorothioate (SV1), piperonyl butoxide (PBO) and diethyl maleate (DEM) increased buprofezin toxicity in the resistant strain by only 1.5-1.6 fold, suggesting that esterases, P450-monooxygenases and glutathione S-transferases had no substantial effect on buprofezin resistance development. The results from this study indicate that N. lugens has the potential to develop high resistance to buprofezin. A resistance management program with rotation of buprofezin and other pesticides may efficiently delay or slow down resistance development in the insect. Further investigation is also necessary to understand the resistance mechanisms in N. lugens.
18507773	* A sex-independent transmission ratio distortion (siTRD) system detected in the interspecific cross in rice was analyzed in order to understand its significance in reproductive barriers. The S(1) gene, derived from African rice Oryza glaberrima, induced preferential abortion of both male and female gametes possessing its allelic alternative (), from Asian rice O. sativa, only in the heterozygote. * The siTRD was characterized by resolving it into mTRD and fTRD occurring through male and female gametes, respectively, cytological analysis of gametophyte development, and mapping of the S(1) locus using near-isogenic lines. The allelic distribution of the S(1) locus in Asian and African rice species complexes was also analyzed. * The siTRD system involved at least two components affecting male and female gametogeneses, respectively, including a modifier(s) that enhances fTRD. The chromosomal location of the major component causing the mTRD was delimited within an approx. 40 kb region. The S(1) locus induced hybrid sterility in any pairwise combination between Asian and African rice species complexes. * The allelic state of the S(1) locus has diverged between Asian and African rice species complexes, suggesting that the TRD system has a significant role in the reproductive barriers in rice.
18507792	The transition from vegetative to reproductive phase, flowering per se, floral organ development, panicle structure and morphology, meiosis, pollination and fertilization, cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and fertility restoration, and grain development are the main reproductive traits. Unlocking their genetic insights will enable plant breeders to manipulate these traits in cereal germplasm enhancement. Multiple genes or quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting flowering (phase transition, photoperiod and vernalization, flowering per se), panicle morphology and grain development have been cloned, and gene expression research has provided new information about the nature of complex genetic networks involved in the expression of these traits. Molecular biology is also facilitating the identification of diverse CMS sources in hybrid breeding. Few Rf (fertility restorer) genes have been cloned in maize, rice and sorghum. DNA markers are now used to assess the genetic purity of hybrids and their parental lines, and to pyramid Rf or tms (thermosensitive male sterility) genes in rice. Transgene(s) can be used to create de novo CMS trait in cereals. The understanding of reproductive biology facilitated by functional genomics will allow a better manipulation of genes by crop breeders and their potential use across species through genetic transformation.
18507814	Plant-mediated transport is the primary route of methane (CH(4)) emission from the reduced paddy field to the aboveground atmosphere. Experiments were conducted at North Bank Plain Agro-climatic Zone of Assam, India, during monsoon rice-growing season (July to December 2006) to elucidate the influences of anatomical and morphophysiological characteristics of rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars on methane emission from submerged agroecosystem. Ten rice cultivars were grown in light-textured loamy soil under rainfed uniform field condition. Among the 10 cultivars, 5 were traditional rice genotypes commonly grown in the agroclimatic zone and the other 5 were improved high-yielding varieties. Wide variation in CH(4) flux was recorded among the rice cultivars, which may be regulated by the difference in anatomical and morphophysiological characteristics of rice plant. Microscopic analysis of stem portion showed that high- and medium-CH(4)-emitting cultivars recorded higher size of the medullary cavity. Leaf area and transpirational rates were also found to be higher in high-CH(4)-emitting varieties. Scanning electron microscopic analysis revealed higher stomatal frequencies in high-methane-emitting cultivars. Data presented in this study suggest that variation in anatomical and morphophysiological characteristics among different rice genotypes may influence CH(4) emission from paddy fields.
18508957	We previously demonstrated that rice (Oryza sativa) SECRETORY CARRIER MEMBRANE PROTEIN1 (OsSCAMP1)-yellow fluorescent protein in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow-2 cells locates to the plasma membrane and to motile punctate structures, which represent the trans-Golgi network/early endosome and are tubular-vesicular in nature. Here, we now show that SCAMPs are diverted to the cell plate during cytokinesis dividing Bright Yellow-2 cells. As cells progress from metaphase to cytokinesis, punctate OsSCAMP1-labeled structures begin to collect in the future division plane. Together with the internalized endosomal marker FM4-64, they then become incorporated into the cell plate as it forms and expands. This was confirmed by immunogold electron microscopy. We also monitored for the Golgi apparatus and the prevacuolar compartment (PVC)/multivesicular body. Golgi stacks tend to accumulate in the vicinity of the division plane, but the signals are clearly separate to the cell plate. The situation with the PVC (labeled by green fluorescent protein-BP-80) is not so clear. Punctate BP-80 signals are seen at the advancing periphery of the cell plate, which was confirmed by immunogold electron microscopy. Specific but weak labeling was observed in the cell plate, but no evidence for a fusion of the PVC/multivesicular body with the cell plate could be obtained. Our data, therefore, support the notion that cell plate formation is mainly a secretory process involving mass incorporation of domains of the trans-Golgi network/early endosome membrane. We regard the involvement of multivesicular late endosomes in this process to be equivocal.
18508959	Apomixis, asexual reproduction through seed, is widespread among angiosperm families. Gametophytic apomixis in Pennisetum squamulatum and Cenchrus ciliaris is controlled by the apospory-specific genomic region (ASGR), which is highly conserved and macrosyntenic between these species. Thirty-two ASGR bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) isolated from both species and one ASGR-recombining BAC from P. squamulatum, which together cover approximately 2.7 Mb of DNA, were used to investigate the genomic structure of this region. Phrap assembly of 4,521 high-quality reads generated 1,341 contiguous sequences (contigs; 730 from the ASGR and 30 from the ASGR-recombining BAC in P. squamulatum, plus 580 from the C. ciliaris ASGR). Contigs containing putative protein-coding regions unrelated to transposable elements were identified based on protein similarity after Basic Local Alignment Search Tool X analysis. These putative coding regions were further analyzed in silico with reference to the rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genomes using the resources at Gramene (www.gramene.org) and Phytozome (www.phytozome.net) and by hybridization against sorghum BAC filters. The ASGR sequences reveal that the ASGR (1) contains both gene-rich and gene-poor segments, (2) contains several genes that may play a role in apomictic development, (3) has many classes of transposable elements, and (4) does not exhibit large-scale synteny with either rice or sorghum genomes but does contain multiple regions of microsynteny with these species.
18509653	In an attempt to understand the molecular basis of salt-stress response in the aromatic rice Gobindobhog, a comprehensive analysis encompassing physiological or biochemical assays and gene expression studies under high salt (200 mM NaCl) supply regimes were initiated and compared with a salt-sensitive (M-1-48) and salt-tolerant (Nonabokra) rice. The detrimental effects of salinity stress were the most pronounced in Gobindobhog, as reflected by the maximally increased root to shoot ratio, the highest chlorophyll degeneration, the highest foliar concentration of Na(+) ions and peroxide content, with their maximum increment after salt treatment. The amplification of oxidative damages was further stimulated by the accumulation of putrescine and lipid peroxidation-derived toxic degradation products (increased malondialdehyde and lipoxygenase activity), which were comparable in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog. Antioxidants like anthocyanin and particularly cysteine and the osmolytes like reducing sugar, proline and polyamines (spermidine and spermine) showed the highest level in Nonabokra. While the inhibition of catalase activity occurred in all the varieties following salt-stress, the maximum induction in guaiacol peroxidase activity, elevated cysteine and proline levels in Gobindobhog probably constituted the detoxification mechanism obligatory for its survival. Intensification of the aroma content with salt treatment was markedly noted in Gobindobhog. A very low abundance of Rab16A/SamDC transcript and the corresponding proteins were observed both in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog, induced only after salt-stress, whereas they were constitutively expressed in Nonabokra. Thus, our data reflect Gobindobhog as a salt-sensitive cultivar, susceptible to high-stress-induced growth-inhibition, ion imbalances, membrane/oxidative damages with lower expression of stress-tolerant genes.
18509654	Emerging evidence suggests that plants and animals may share certain biochemical commonalities in apoptosis, or programmed cell death (PCD) pathways, though plants lack key animal apoptosis related genes. In plants, PCD has many important functions including a role in immunity and resistance to pathogen infection. In this study, a rice phenylalanine ammonia-lyase promoter is used to regulate the expression of the mouse pro-apoptotic bax gene in transgenic tobacco plants. Ectopic expression of the bax negatively affects the growth of transgenic plants. Nonetheless, results show that the bax transgene is induced upon infection by plant pathogens and accumulation of Bax is observed by Western blot analysis. By estimating and measuring the extent of cell death, release of active oxygen species, and accumulation defense-associated gene transcripts, it is shown that bax transgenic plants mount a more robust cell death response compared to control plants. The bax transgenic tobacco plants are also more resistant to infection by Phytophthora parasitica and Ralstonia solanacearum, but have no obvious resistance to tobacco mosaic virus. These results substantiate past studies and illustrate the powerful effects mammalian bax genes may have on plant development and disease resistance.
18509715	Adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD) is an inflammatory disorder characterized by high-spiking fever, arthritis, and an evanescent rash. The pattern of chronic arthritis is a universal feature of AOSD. However, chronic bursitis with the formation of numerous rice bodies is a very rare presentation in a patient with AOSD. To our knowledge, no case of formation of numerous rice bodies in AOSD has been reported thus far. We describe the case of a 28-year-old man with AOSD with rice bodies in his left shoulder joint.
18510577	Summary Nitrogen is quantitatively the most essential nutrient for plants and a major factor limiting crop productivity. One of the critical steps limiting the efficient use of nitrogen is the ability of plants to acquire it from applied fertilizer. Therefore, the development of crop plants that absorb and use nitrogen more efficiently has been a long-term goal of agricultural research. In an attempt to develop nitrogen-efficient plants, rice (Oryza sativa L.) was genetically engineered by introducing a barley AlaAT (alanine aminotransferase) cDNA driven by a rice tissue-specific promoter (OsAnt1). This modification increased the biomass and grain yield significantly in comparison with control plants when plants were well supplied with nitrogen. Compared with controls, transgenic rice plants also demonstrated significant changes in key metabolites and total nitrogen content, indicating increased nitrogen uptake efficiency. The development of crop plants that take up and assimilate nitrogen more efficiently would not only improve the use of nitrogen fertilizers, resulting in lower production costs, but would also have significant environmental benefits. These results are discussed in terms of their relevance to the development of strategies to engineer enhanced nitrogen use efficiency in crop plants.
18510771	We report the development of a microarray platform for rapid and cost-effective genetic mapping, and its evaluation using rice as a model. In contrast to methods employing whole-genome tiling microarrays for genotyping, our method is based on low-cost spotted microarray production, focusing only on known polymorphic features. We have produced a genotyping microarray for rice, comprising 880 single feature polymorphism (SFP) elements derived from insertions/deletions identified by aligning genomic sequences of the japonica cultivar Nipponbare and the indica cultivar 93-11. The SFPs were experimentally verified by hybridization with labeled genomic DNA prepared from the two cultivars. Using the genotyping microarrays, we found high levels of polymorphism across diverse rice accessions, and were able to classify all five subpopulations of rice with high bootstrap support. The microarrays were used for mapping of a gene conferring resistance to Magnaporthe grisea, the causative organism of rice blast disease, by quantitative genotyping of samples from a recombinant inbred line population pooled by phenotype. We anticipate this microarray-based genotyping platform, based on its low cost-per-sample, to be particularly useful in applications requiring whole-genome molecular marker coverage across large numbers of individuals.
18510817	Mosquito nets treated with permethrin, deltamethrin or alpha-cypermethrin at 25 mg/m(2) were evaluated in experimental huts in an area of rice irrigation near Moshi, in northern Tanzania. The nets were deliberately holed to resemble worn nets. The nets treated with permethrin offered the highest personal protection against Anopheles arabiensis (61.6% reduction in fed mosquitoes) and Culex quinquefasciatus (25.0%). Deltamethrin and alpha-cypermethrin provided lower personal protection against An. arabiensis (46.4% and 45.6%, respectively) and no such protection against Cx. quinquefasciatus. Permethrin performed poorly in terms of mosquito mortality, however, killing only 15.2% of the An. arabiensis and 9.2% of the Cx. quinquefasciatus exposed to the nets treated with this pyrethroid (after correcting for control mortality). The alpha-cypermethrin and deltamethrin performed marginally better, with respective mortalities of 32.8% and 33.0% for An. arabiensis and 19.4% and 18.9% for Cx quinquefasciatus. The poor killing effect of permethrin was confirmed in a second trial where a commercial, long-lasting insecticidal net based on this pyrethroid (Olyset) produced low mortalities in both An. arabiensis (11.8%) and Cx. quinquefasciatus (3.6%). Anopheles arabiensis survivors collected from the verandahs of the experimental huts and tested on 0.75%-permethrin and 0.05%-deltamethrin papers, in World Health Organization susceptibility kits, showed mortalities of 96% and 100%, respectively. The continued use of permethrin-treated nets is recommended for personal protection against An. arabiensis. In control programmes that aim to interrupt transmission of pathogens by mosquitoes and/or manage pyrethroid resistance in such vectors, a combination of a pyrethroid and another insecticide with greater killing effect should be considered.
18511265	Among useless but abundant agricultural biowastes such as banana skin, green tea waste, oak leaf, walnut shell, peanut shell and rice husk, in this study, banana skin was screened as the most efficient biomaterial to remove toxic Cr(VI) from aqueous solution. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) study revealed that the mechanism of Cr(VI) biosorption by banana skin was its complete reduction into Cr(III) in both aqueous and solid phases and partial binding of the reduced-Cr(III), in the range of pH 1.5-4 tested. One gram of banana skin could reduce 249.6 (+/-4.2)mg of Cr(VI) at initial pH 1.5. Namely, Cr(VI)-reducing capacity of banana skin was four times higher than that of a common chemical Cr(VI)-reductant, FeSO(4).7H(2)O. To diminish undesirable/serious organic leaching from the biomaterial and to enhance removal efficiency of total Cr, its powder was immobilized within Ca-alginate bead. The developed Cr(VI)-biosorbent could completely reduce toxic Cr(VI) to less toxic Cr(III) and could remove almost of the reduced-Cr(III) from aqueous phase. On the basis of removal mechanisms of Cr(VI) and total Cr by the Cr(VI)-biosorbent, a kinetic model was derived and could be successfully used to predict their removal behaviors in aqueous phase. In conclusion, our Cr(VI)-biosorbent must be a potent candidate to substitute for chemical reductants as well as adsorbents for treating Cr(VI)-bearing wastewaters.
18511458	OsXIP (Oryza sativa xylanase inhibitor protein) is a XIP-type xylanase inhibitor which was identified as a protein encoded by a wound stress-responsive gene in rice. Although the OsXIP gene was specifically expressed in mature grains under basal conditions, recombinant OsXIP had no effect on rice endogenous xylanases, and OsXIP-suppressed transgenic rice plants did not exhibit any change in grain development and germination, suggesting that rice development may be independent of OsXIP. Analysis using an OsXIP-specific antibody revealed that OsXIP is markedly accumulated in apoplast in rice root cells by wounding. These results reinforced the possibility that OsXIP is involved in plant defense mechanisms against phytopathogens.
18512897	Room-temperature rate constants for the pressure-dependent reactions SiH2 + ethene, propene, and t-butene have been determined at total pressures of 3.3 mbar < or = p < or = 300 mbar with Ar as buffer gas. SiH2 was detected by means of time-resolved cavity ringdown spectroscopy (CRDS), and the deconvolution of ringdown, kinetics, and laser bandwidth effect was accomplished with the extended simultaneous kinetics and ringdown model (eSKaR). In this way, pseudofirst-order rate constants could be extracted from nonexponential ringdown profiles. The recombination reactions, including the reaction SiH2 + i-butene, have been modeled based on the simplified statistical adiabatic channel model (SACM) and weak collision energy-grained master equation (ME) simulations. The influence of an interfering fast isomerization channel was investigated based on the Rice, Ramsperger, Kassel, Marcus theory (RRKM) and was found to be only important for the C2H4 reaction. Using ab initio energies (G3) and structures (MP2/6-311G(d,p)) as input parameters for the kinetic models, a consistent description of the pressure and temperature dependences of all four reactions was possible. In the temperature range 295 K < or = T < or = 600 K, the extrapolated limiting high-pressure rate constants, k(infinity)(C2H4)/(cm(3) x mol(-1) x s(-1)) = 1.9 x 10(14) (T/K)(-0.065), k(infinity)(C3H6)/(cm(3) x mol(-1) x s(-1)) = 1.3 x 10(14) (T/K)(0.075), k(infinity)(i-C4H8) = 1.8 x 10(14) cm(3) x mol(-1) x s(-1), and k(infinity)(t-C4H8)/(cm(3) x mol(-1) x s(-1)) = 4.6 x 10(13) (T/K)(0.21), are close to the collision number and are more or less temperature independent. In the case of ethene, probably due to the approximate treatment of rotational effects and/or the interfering isomerization process, the applied model slightly underestimates the falloff and thus yields too high extrapolated rate constants at p < 10 mbar.
18512935	Adsorption on a soil matrix of the insecticidal protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) transgenic plants affects their accumulation and release and, hence, bioavailability in soil. Cry1Ab protein isolated from Bt transgenic rice was used to evaluate the adsorption and desorption on bentone, kaolin, and humic acids (HAs). The adsorption equilibrium of Cry1Ab protein was reached within 1-2 h for bentone and kaolin and within 4-8 h for HAs. The adsorption isotherms were better described by linear expressions (R (2) >/= 0.973) rather than by the Freundlich model. No saturation was observed, even at the maximum concentration used (3.71 microg mL (-1)). The adsorbed protein was not easily desorbed at the used protein concentrations (0.18-3.71 microg mL (-1)); more than 50-70%, 70-80%, and 90% of the adsorbed protein remained on HAs, kaolin, and bentone, respectively, after washing with water. Adsorption and desorption of the Cry1Ab protein were further studied using five soils, and the isotherms were also well-described by linear equations (p < 0.05). Adsorption of the Cry1Ab protein on soils was positively related to the soil organic matter content.
18512938	NERICA are interspecific rice varieties from crossing between the high-yielding Asian rice (Oryza sativa spp. Japonica) with locally adapted African rice (Oryza glaberrima). In this study, we analyzed grain qualities of 7 NERICA varieties (NERICA 1 to 7) and genetic derivation of quality-related genes. Quality analyses of NERICA grains showed that 7 NERICA varieties were clearly classified into two groups based on the difference of amylose content, and the difference influenced the pasting and physical properties of grains. Genetic analysis of the gene encoding granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI), which is known as a key enzyme on amylose synthesis in rice grain, revealed that varieties with higher amylose content (approximately 29%) have the gene derived from O. glaberrima parent, and group 2 with lower amylose content (approximately 22%) have the gene from O. sativa parent. These results indicated that the difference in amylose content as well as grain properties among 7 NERICA varieties is mainly determined by the genetic derivation of GBSSI. Further genetic analysis of starch synthesis-related genes suggested that the genetic derivation of SSIIa also influences the chain length of amylopectin in 7 NERICA varieties.
18513375	FRO2 (At1g01580) codes for an NADPH-dependent ferric reductase in plasma membranes of root epidermal cells with a demonstrated role in iron uptake by plants. Ferric reductase activity has been shown to be the rate-limiting step for iron uptake in strategy I plants like Arabidopsis and in rice, but it has been unclear whether FRO genes have other physiological functions. We hypothesized that FRO2 was involved in chilling stress tolerance because its expression was upregulated by treatment of plants with glycine betaine (GB), a chemical that prevents reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling in chilling stress. This idea was confirmed by showing that the FRO2 null mutant frd1-1 failed to respond to GB in chilling assays either in relation to root growth recovery or inhibition of ROS accumulation. Measurements of ferric reductase activity in wild-type plants treated with GB before chilling showed no significant GB effect compared with controls. In addition, 35S-FRO2 transgenics with elevated mRNA levels did not have improved chilling tolerance. However, ferric reductase activity in wild-type plants or 35S-FRO2 transgenics pretreated with GB was several-fold higher after chilling compared with non-pretreated controls. These experiments identify a new physiological function for FRO2, i.e. blocking ROS accumulation during chilling. They also suggest that GB has a major effect on FRO2 activity posttranscriptionally in the cold.
18513376	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) blast disease caused by Magnaporthe grisea is one of the most destructive diseases in the rice-growing areas of the world. Silicon is an important nutritional element especially for rice. Two near-isogenic lines of rice with different resistance to blast disease, i.e. CO39 (susceptible) and C101LAC (Pi-1) (resistant), were selected to determine the effects of Si amendment on the severity and incidence of rice blast disease. The physiological and cytological mechanisms involved in the induced disease resistance by silicon were investigated. Exogenous Si application at a concentration of 2 mM reduced the disease index by 45% for CO39 and 56% for C101LAC (Pi-1). Si application alone did not change lignin content and the activities of defense-related enzymes including peroxidase (POD), polyphenol oxidase (PPO) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) in rice leaves of both isogenic lines. However, after inoculation with M. grisea, Si-treated rice plants significantly increased the activities of POD, PPO and PAL in leaves of both isogenic lines. Si and lignin content were also significantly increased in Si-treated inoculated seedlings. Environmental scanning electron microscope observations revealed that Si amendment resulted in higher Si deposit on dumbbell bodies in the rice leaves and silicon papilla accumulation on the guard cell of stoma. These results suggest that silicon-induced defense response and cell silicification of rice leaves altogether contribute to the silicon-induced rice resistance to blast disease.
18514598	A method for measuring biotin by affinity-chromatography was developed using a trypsin-treated avidin silica gel column. Elution was by a linear gradient of propan-2-ol in an acidic phosphate buffer system containing 0.7 M NaCl (pH 2.4). Biotin was derivatized with 9-anthryldiazomethane (ADAM) to the fluorescent biotin-ADAM ester and a linear calibration line was obtained from 0 to 1.39 pmol with a detection limit of 69.5 fmol. Biotin was measured after hydrolysis in 2.25 M sulphuric acid for 1h at 120 degrees C and the recovery for biocytin was 65.7+/-2.53%, and hence a correction factor of 1.52 was used for the total biotin analysis. The recovery of added biotin from the serum was more than 98% using this correction factor of 1.52. Biotin was also measured in nutritional supplemental foods and foodstuffs, and we found that chicken egg yolk, "natto", rice bran, royal jelly, and dried yeast contained highest levels of biotin. Biotin was also found in ferments by Bacillus natto, yeast, and some acetic acid bacterium. Storage foods such as beans, nuts and eggs also contained abundant biotin. Biotin was also determined and replacement monitored in the serum of suspected biotinidase deficiency patients. This affinity-chromatographic method for biotin determination was shown to be a robust and reliable and is well suited for biochemical and nutritional research.
18514898	The snakehead Channa striata is an economically important air-breathing fish species in the Mekong delta of Vietnam. Rice paddies, which are disturbed by the frequent application of agro-chemicals, are among the preferred habitats for this species during the rainy season. Diazinon is one of most commonly used chemicals in rice paddies. In the present study, exposure of adult snakehead fish to a single diazinon application in cages within a rice field resulted in long-term brain cholinesterase inhibition, while the water concentration of this insecticide fell below the detection limit within 3 days. In addition, incubation of brain homogenates with 2-PAM caused reactivation of the cholinesterase diazinon complex to within 80% of the control level. These experiments also showed that chemical ageing of the diazinon cholinesterase binding occurred, which may explain the long-term effects of this pesticide.
18515404	In recent years, Cyperus rotundus has become a problem weed in lowland rice (Oryza sativa) grown in rotation with vegetables in the Philippines. As the growth of C. rotundus is commonly suppressed by prolonged flooding, the ability of the weed to grow vigorously in flooded as well as upland conditions suggests that adapted ecotypes occur in these rotations. Studies were conducted to elucidate the mechanisms that permit C. rotundus to tolerate flooded soil conditions. Upland and lowland ecotypes of C. rotundus were compared in terms of growth habit, carbohydrate reserves and metabolism, and activities of enzymes involved in alcoholic fermentation - alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC). The lowland ecotype has much larger tubers than the upland ecotype. Prior to germination, the amylase activity and total non-structural carbohydrate content in the form of soluble sugars were greater in the tubers of lowland plants than in those of upland C. rotundus. At 24 h after germination in hypoxic conditions, PDC and ADH activities in the lowland plants increased, before decreasing at 48 h following germination. In contrast, ADH and PDC activities in the upland plants increased from 24 to 48 h after germination. Tolerance of lowland C. rotundus of flooding may be attributed to large carbohydrate content and amylase activity, and the ability to maintain high levels of soluble sugars in the tubers during germination and early growth. This is coupled with the modulation of ADH and PDC activities during germination, possibly to control the use of carbohydrate reserves and sustain substrate supply in order to avoid starvation and death of seedlings with prolonged flooding.
18515498	Rice (Oryza sativa) accumulates very high concentrations of silicon (Si) in the shoots, and the deposition of Si as amorphous silica helps plants to overcome biotic and abiotic stresses. Here, we describe a transporter, Lsi6, which is involved in the distribution of Si in the shoots. Lsi6 belongs to the nodulin-26 intrinsic protein III subgroup of aquaporins and is permeable to silicic acid. Lsi6 is expressed in the leaf sheath and leaf blades as well as in the root tips. Cellular localization studies revealed that Lsi6 is found in the xylem parenchyma cells of the leaf sheath and leaf blades. Moreover, Lsi6 showed polar localization at the side facing toward the vessel. Knockdown of Lsi6 did not affect the uptake of Si by the roots but resulted in disordered deposition of silica in the shoots and increased excretion of Si in the guttation fluid. These results indicate that Lsi6 is a transporter responsible for the transport of Si out of the xylem and subsequently affects the distribution of Si in the leaf.
1851550	We reported previously that the v-rel protein (p59v-rel) exists in a high molecular weight complex with at least four other proteins in the cytoplasm of v-rel-transformed chicken pre-B lymphoid cells (Simek, S. & Rice, N.R., J. Virol., 62, 4730-4736, 1989). One of these proteins is the chicken c-rel protein, but the identities of the others (of about 36 kDa, 115 kDa, and 124 kDa) are unknown. In this report we extend that observation to additional v-rel-transformed cell lines of both pre-B and B cell phenotypes. We also introduced and expressed v-rel in several other avian cell lines (a chicken T cell line, chick embryo fibroblasts, and quail fibroblasts) and found that in these cells p59v-rel was complexed with the same proteins as observed in the v-rel-transformed cells. Thus, the associated proteins are not limited to pre-B cells, but occur and complex with p59v-rel in B cells, T cells, and fibroblasts. We next examined five uninfected avian cells and tissues and found that, with only one exception, p75c-rel was complexed with p36, p115, and p124. Thus, in most cases complex formation is not limited to or dependent on the presence of the transforming v-rel protein, but also occurs with the normal c-rel protein. To determine whether a mammalian c-rel protein is similarly associated with other proteins, we screened murine cell lines for the presence of c-rel mRNA. In agreement with our earlier findings, we found the highest expression in mature B cells, although several pre-B and myeloid cell lines were also strongly positive. Using one of the B cell lines, we detected the murine c-rel protein. We found that, like its avian counterpart, it is a protein of about 75 kDa and is associated with proteins of 36 kDa and 115 kDa. Sephacryl S-400 chromatography revealed that both the avian and murine complexes are of high molecular weight, with an average size of about 400 kDa.
18515639	Comparative analysis of the organization and expression patterns of divergent and convergent gene pairs in multiple plant genomes can identify patterns that are shared by more than one species or are unique to a particular species. Here, we study the coexpression and interspecies conservation of divergent and convergent gene pairs in three plant species: rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa). Strongly correlated expression levels between divergent and convergent genes were found to be quite common in all three species, and the frequency of strong correlation appears to be independent of intergenic distance. Conservation of divergent or convergent arrangement among these species appears to be quite rare. However, conserved arrangement is significantly more frequent when the genes display strongly correlated expression levels or have one or more Gene Ontology (GO) classes in common. A correlation between intergenic distance in divergent and convergent gene pairs and shared GO classes was observed, in varying degrees, in rice and Populus but not in Arabidopsis. Furthermore, multiple GO classes were either overrepresented or underrepresented in Arabidopsis and Populus gene pairs, while only two GO classes were underrepresented in rice divergent gene pairs. Three cis-regulatory elements common to both Arabidopsis and rice were overrepresented in the intergenic regions of strongly correlated divergent gene pairs compared to those of noncorrelated pairs. Our results suggest that shared as well as unique mechanisms operate in shaping the organization and function of divergent and convergent gene pairs in different plant species.
18516816	(1) Rice fermented with "red yeast" is a traditional Chinese remedy that naturally contains various statins. Preparations based on red yeast rice are marketed as lipid-lowering medicines, often in capsule form, having the regulatory status of dietary supplements. (2) Cases of rhabdomyolysis have drawn attention to the risks associated with these products: "dietary supplement" status does not provide any guarantee as to the composition or quality of these preparations. (3) In practice, it is better to exercise caution when using plant-based dietary supplements. Patients should be informed of the risks associated with using these products, and standard drug treatments should be preferred.
18517257	Ozone (O(3)), a serious air pollutant, is known to significantly reduce photosynthesis, growth, and yield and to cause foliar injury and senescence. Here, integrated transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics approaches were applied to investigate the molecular responses of O(3) in the leaves of 2-week-old rice (cv. Nipponbare) seedlings exposed to 0.2 ppm O(3) for a period of 24 h. On the basis of the morphological alteration of O(3)-exposed rice leaves, transcript profiling of rice genes was performed in leaves exposed for 1, 12, and 24 h using rice DNA microarray chip. A total of 1535 nonredundant genes showed altered expression of more than 5-fold over the control, representing 8 main functional categories. Genes involved in information storage and processing (10%) and cellular processing and signaling categories (24%) were highly represented within 1 h of O(3) treatment; transcriptional factor and signal transduction, respectively, were the main subcategories. Genes categorized into information storage and processing (17, 23%), cellular processing and signaling (20, 16%) and metabolism (18, 19%) were mainly regulated at 12 and 24 h; their main subcategories were ribosomal protein, post-translational modification, and signal transduction and secondary metabolites biosynthesis, respectively. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis-based proteomics analyses in combination with tandem mass spectrometer identified 23 differentially expressed protein spots (21 nonredundant proteins) in leaves exposed to O(3) for 24 h compared to respective control. Identified proteins were found to be involved in cellular processing and signaling (32%), photosynthesis (19%), and defense (14%). Capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry-based metabolomic profiling revealed accumulation of amino acids, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and glutathione in O(3) exposed leaves until 24 h over control. This systematic survey showed that O(3) triggers a chain reaction of altered gene, protein and metabolite expressions involved in multiple cellular processes in rice.
18518558	We have reexamined the valence-band (VB) and core-level electronic structure of NiO by means of hard and soft x-ray photoemission spectroscopies. The spectral weight of the lowest energy state was found to be enhanced in the bulk sensitive Ni 2p core-level spectrum. A configuration-interaction model including a bound state screening has shown agreement with the core-level spectrum and off- and on-resonance VB spectra. These results identify the lowest energy states in the core-level and VB spectra as the Zhang-Rice (ZR) doublet bound states, consistent with the spin-fermion model and recent ab initio calculations within dynamical mean-field theory. The results indicate that the ZR character first ionization (the lowest hole-addition) states are responsible for transport properties in NiO and doped NiO.
18521706	The apple, Malus x domestica Borkh., is one of the most important fruit trees grown worldwide. A bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based physical map of the apple genome has been recently constructed. Based on this physical map, a total of approximately 2,100 clones from different contigs (overlapping BAC clones) have been selected and sequenced at both ends, generating 3,744 high-quality BAC end sequences (BESs) including 1,717 BAC end pairs. Approximately 8.5% of BESs contain simple sequence repeats (SSRs), most of which are AT/TA dimer repeats. Potential transposable elements are identified in approximately 21% of BESs, and most of these elements are retrotransposons. About 11% of BESs have homology to the Arabidopsis protein database. The matched proteins cover a broad range of categories. The average GC content of the predicted coding regions of BESs is 42.4%; while, that of the whole BESs is 39%. A small number of BES pairs were mapped to neighboring chromosome regions of A. thaliana and Populus trichocarpa; whereas, no pairs are mapped to the Oryza sativa genome. The apple has a higher degree of synteny with the closely related Populus than with the distantly related Arabidopsis. BAC end sequencing can be used to anchor a small proportion of the apple genome to the Populus and possibly to the Arabidopsis genomes.
18521708	Soil, plant, and water, as well as trace elements they contain, can influence human health through the food chain. A survey was conducted on distributions of trace elements in soils, plants, and drinking water in Rugao County, Jiangsu Province, China, an agricultural area with a high level of centenarians and nonagenarians. The ratio of people over 90 years old per 100,000 inhabitants (90-rate) based on village (about 4,000 residents in 4 km(2)) was correlated with trace elements in soil, drinking water, and rice by means of correlation analysis and/or principal component analysis. Although the average 90-rate in the whole area was as high as 277, the rates were not uniform across the entire region. The 90-rate in the area of loamy and strongly-developed Anthrosols and Cambosols was about 330, significantly higher than the 255 in the areas of sandy and strongly-developed Cambosols and of clayey and weakly-developed Cambosols. The concentrations of available Se, B, Ni, and Mo in soils of the area with the high 90-rate were markedly greater than those in the area with the low 90-rate. This was demonstrated by highly positive correlations between the 90-rate and available Se (r = 0.33), B (r = 0.21), Ni (r = 0.17) and Mo (r = 0.17) at the p < 0.01 level and high loadings of available Se (0.851), B (0.535), Ni (0.594) and Mo (0.394) in the longevous factor. Similar relationships between the available elements in soils and elements in water and rice were found. These results suggest that: (1) the available forms of elements in soil were more crucial to elemental bio-availability in the ecosystem and human health than total elements in soil; and (2) the element association above might have affected the 90-rate positively and could be an important environmental geochemical factor influencing the longevity of humans.
18522655	The line-fitting methods such as the Hvorslev method and the Bouwer and Rice method provide a rapid and simple means to analyze slug test data for estimating in situ hydraulic conductivity (k) of geologic materials. However, when analyzing a slug test in a relatively compressible geologic formation, these conventional methods may have difficulties fitting a straight line to the semilogarithmic plot of the test data. Data from relatively compressible geologic formations frequently show a concave-upward curvature because of the effect of the compressibility or specific storage (S(s)). To take into account the compressibility of geologic formations, a modified line-fitting method is introduced, which expands on Chirlin's (1989) approach to the case of a partially penetrating well with the basic-time-lag fitting method. A case study for a compressible till is made to verify the proposed method by comparing the results from the proposed methods with those obtained using a type-curve method (Kansas Geological Survey method [Hyder et al. 1994]).
18522800	Sakuranetin (5,4'-dihydroxy-7-methoxyflavone) belongs to the flavanone class of polyphenols predominantly known as phytoalexin in rice plant. In this study, we demonstrate that sakuranetin strongly induces differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, as evidenced by increased triglyceride accumulation and glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) activity. In addition, even in the absence of adipogenic hormonal stimuli, sakuranetin strongly induced adipogenesis and expression of genes that are critical for the adipocytes phenotype. Time-course analyses indicated that sakuranetin induces PPARgamma2 expression without prior induction of C/EBPbeta, a transcriptional regulator of PPARgamma2 in adipogenesis. In 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, the transcriptional factors GATA-2 and GATA-3 are known to down-regulate adipogenesis by direct binding to the C/EBPbeta protein and to the GATA-binding site on the PPARgamma2 promoter. We found that sakuranetin significantly reduced the expression of GATA-2. Moreover, we observed that sakuranetin stimulated glucose uptake in differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes. These results suggest that sakuranetin may contribute to maintain glucose homeostasis in animals.
18522943	The safener fenclorim (4,6-dichloro-2-phenylpyrimidine) increases tolerance to chloroacetanilide herbicides in rice by enhancing the expression of detoxifying glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). Fenclorim also enhances GSTs in Arabidopsis thaliana, and while investigating the functional significance of this induction in suspension cultures, we determined that these enzymes glutathionylated the safener. The resulting S-(fenclorim)-glutathione conjugate was sequentially processed to S-(fenclorim)-gamma-glutamyl-cysteine and S-(fenclorim)-cysteine (FC), the latter accumulating in both the cells and the medium. FC was then either catabolized to 4-chloro-6-(methylthio)-phenylpyrimidine (CMTP) or N-acylated with malonic acid. These cysteine derivatives had distinct fates, with the enzymes responsible for their formation being induced by fenclorim and FC. Fenclorim-N-malonylcysteine was formed from FC by the action of a malonyl-CoA-dependent N-malonyltransferase. A small proportion of the fenclorim-N-malonylcysteine then underwent decarboxylation to yield a putative S-fenclorim-N-acetylcysteine intermediate, which underwent a second round of GST-mediated S-glutathionylation and subsequent proteolytic processing. The formation of CMTP was catalyzed by the concerted action of a cysteine conjugate beta-lyase and an S-methyltransferase, with the two activities being coordinately regulated. Although the fenclorim conjugates tested showed little GST-inducing activity in Arabidopsis, the formation of CMTP resulted in metabolic reactivation, with the product showing good enhancing activity. In addition, CMTP induced GSTs and herbicide-safening activity in rice. The bioactivated CMTP was in turn glutathione-conjugated and processed to a malonyl cysteine derivative. These results reveal the surprisingly complex set of competing catabolic reactions acting on xenobiotics entering the S-glutathionylation pathway in plants, which can result in both detoxification and bioactivation.
18524481	This paper compared the effectiveness of four organic materials for decreasing the amounts of soil extractable Cr(VI) in Cr(VI)-contaminated soils using the DOWEX M4195 resin-extraction method. Organic matters were added into Cr(VI)-spiked soils [500 mg Cr(VI)(kgsoil)(-1)] in the form of sugarcane dregs compost (SCDC), cattle-dung compost (CDC), soybean meal (SBM) and rice bran (RB), in the amounts of 0, 1%, and 2% by dry weight, respectively. The results indicated that adding only 1% organic matter to the studied soils could effectively decrease the amount of soil resin-extractable Cr(VI) after 12 days of incubation. The decrease of resin-extractable Cr(VI) by organic materials was mainly the result from the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) supported by the XANES spectroscopy. Among the four tested organic materials, SBM and RB had higher effectiveness in decreasing soil resin-extractable Cr(VI) than CDC and SCDC. This result may be due to the fact that SBM and RB have more dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and protein than CDC and SCDC. Therefore, it was concluded that the contents of DOC and protein are the main factors that determine the effectiveness of organic materials for decreasing the amounts of soil available Cr(VI) in Cr(VI)-contaminated soils.
1852467	Four investigators conducted participative observation at 4 hamlets, representing 4 typical topography in the area, wet or dry near the river and wet or dry far from the river, in District Rambutan, South Sumatera Province, Indonesia from July 1988 up until February 1989 to study the community perception and practices on diarrheal diseases (DD). The observation was supported by focus group discussions and informal interviews. It was found that the causes of DD can be grouped into: dirty water; wrong (cold, hot, sting) food; part of the growth process; physical condition (extreme heat, cold wind and inner abnormality, inner heat, muscle strain), and supernatural. The type of DD can be grouped into: mild without vomiting named ngadi, negenteng-ngentengi, nambah kepacakan, etc which was linked to the growth process; more severe diarrhea, might be with fever (mising-mising, murus, mencret, etc); more severe diarrhea with severe vomiting (muntager, kolera); bloody/mucoid stool (disentri, mising tai angin, mising umbal). The community had also the concept of prolonged diarrhea named as menerus (literally meaning prolonged) Muntaber was more associated with bad water while the prolonged one was more associated with inner abnormality. The danger of diarrhea perceived was susut = shrinkage, lisut = emaciation. Pale and red hair with lisut were recognized as the dangers of prolonged diarrhea. The community did not associate these conditions with fluid loss. The management started by self medication using tapel (pasta of herb applied) to the stomach), decoct (daun jambu, akar teratai etc), solid oral preparation (cassava with raw sugar, rast rice, etc).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1852725	Whole blood cyanide levels in a human population sample of volunteers known to each gari-based meals at least once a day were determined. The most widely eaten cassava product in the area of research is gari. The mean blood cyanide obtained for healthy normal volunteers was 0.294 +/- 0.09 mumol/L while the value for sicklers was 0.398 +/- 0.008 mumol/L, indicating the possibility of reduced rate of metabolism and excretion of cyanide by sicklers as compared to non-sicklers. Investigation of post-absorption distribution indicated that whole blood cyanide increased by 0.014 mumol/L, 3-4 hours after a gari-based meal in normal volunteers. A decrease of 0.012 mumol/L occurred after a whole-rice meal. The increase in plasma cyanide 2-3 hours after a gari-based meal was about 25% more than the increase in erythrocyte cyanide suggesting a significant contribution of plasma cyanide to whole blood cyanide levels. 0.013-0.015 mg cyanide per kg of gari was determined for samples of this staple food in the locality of research.
18528527	Using DNA markers in plant breeding with marker-assisted selection (MAS) could greatly improve the precision and efficiency of selection, leading to the accelerated development of new crop varieties. The numerous examples of MAS in rice have prompted many breeding institutes to establish molecular breeding labs. The last decade has produced an enormous amount of genomics research in rice, including the identification of thousands of QTLs for agronomically important traits, the generation of large amounts of gene expression data, and cloning and characterization of new genes, including the detection of single nucleotide polymorphisms. The pinnacle of genomics research has been the completion and annotation of genome sequences for indica and japonica rice. This information-coupled with the development of new genotyping methodologies and platforms, and the development of bioinformatics databases and software tools-provides even more exciting opportunities for rice molecular breeding in the 21st century. However, the great challenge for molecular breeders is to apply genomics data in actual breeding programs. Here, we review the current status of MAS in rice, current genomics projects and promising new genotyping methodologies, and evaluate the probable impact of genomics research. We also identify critical research areas to "bridge the application gap" between QTL identification and applied breeding that need to be addressed to realize the full potential of MAS, and propose ideas and guidelines for establishing rice molecular breeding labs in the postgenome sequence era to integrate molecular breeding within the context of overall rice breeding and research programs.
18532811	The vibrational overtone induced unimolecular dissociation of HMHP (HOCH(2)OOH) and HMHP-d(2) (HOCD(2)OOH) into OH and HOCH(2)O (HOCD(2)O) fragments is investigated in the region of the 4nu(OH) and 5nu(OH) bands. The unimolecular dissociation rates in the threshold region, corresponding to the 4nu(OH) band, exhibit measurable differences associated with excitation of the OH stretch of the alcohol versus the peroxide functional group, with the higher energy alcohol OH stretching state exhibiting a slower dissociation rate compared to the lower energy peroxide OH stretch in both HMHP and HMHP-d(2). Predictions using the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory give rates that are in reasonably good agreement with the measured dissociation rate for the alcohol OH stretch but considerably differ from the measured rates for the peroxide OH stretch in both isotopomers. The present results are interpreted as suggesting that the extent of intramolecular vibrational energy redistribution (IVR) is different for the two OH stretching states associated with the two functional groups in HMHP, with IVR being substantially less complete for the peroxide OH stretch. Analysis of the OH fragment product state distributions in conjunction with phase-space theory simulation gives a D(0) value of 38+/-0.7 kcal/mole for breaking the peroxide bond in HMHP.
18533364	Methylglyoxal (MG) is a highly reactive cytotoxic alpha-oxoaldehyde compound and is formed endogenously via different enzymatic and non-enzymatic reactions. In plants MG is detoxified mainly via the glyoxalase system that is comprised of two enzymes, glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II. Glyoxalase I converts MG to S-D-lactoylglutathione by utilizing glutathione, while glyoxalase II converts S-D-lactoylglutathione to D-lactic acid, and during this reaction glutathione is regenerated. The presence and characterization of both glyoxalase I and II has been reported in many plants and the genes encoding these have been cloned and found to be regulated under various environmental conditions. In plants, MG has been found to be present during normal growth conditions and it accumulates to higher levels under various environmental stresses. Abiotic and heavy metal stresses induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) and MG. Overexpression of the glyoxalase pathway in transgenic tobacco and rice plants has been found to check an increase of ROS and MG under stress conditions by maintaining glutathione homeostasis and antioxidant enzyme levels. There is also evidence that in addition to glyoxalase, other pathways, such as the aldose reductase pathway, may also be involved in MG detoxification in plants. To unravel the role of MG and the glyoxalase pathway in signal transduction during environmental stress conditions in plants is a topic of future research interest. In this paper we review work on plant glyoxalases especially with respect to their role under abiotic stresses.
18533517	The study on the photosynthetic characteristics and dry matter accumulation of twelve hybrid rice varieties in the eco-environments with low- and high light intensity showed that the adaptation abiility of the varieties to eco-environment was mainly (depended on the varieties themselves, and there existed greater (differenees among them. The differences in net photosynthetic rate (Pn) and chlorophyll content (Chl) were more significant among the varieties than between the eco-environments. The grain yield had significant positive correlations with Pn and total dry matter mass (TDM), the determination coefficient R2 being 0.584 and 0.590, respectively, but no significant correlations with the export percentage of the matter in stem-sheath (EPMSS) and the transformation percentage of the matter in stem-sheath (TPMSS). In the eco-environment with high light intensity, the leaf thickness and dry matter accumulation increased, while the EPMSS and TPMSS decreased. Under enough sunlight condition, the high proportion of matter in grain yield was mainly come from the photosynthesis at late growth stages; while under insufficient sunlight condition, it was mainly originated from the early growth stages photosynthesis.
18533721	Ultraconserved elements, sequences with 100% identity with no insertions or deletions between genomes, have been found in both vertebrate and invertebrate genomes; whether plant genomes contain ultraconserved elements, however, is unknown. We consequently compared the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, which diverged about 200 million years ago, and identified 25 ultraconserved elements that are longer than 100 bp. Similar to those previously found, ultraconserved elements in plants tend to occur in clusters and locate at noncoding regions; nevertheless, they have many distinct features. For instance, the longest ultraconserved element between the 2 plant genomes is 1491 bp, much longer than the longest one (779 bp) between the human and rodent genomes. Some biological implications are discussed, but the functions of these plant ultraconserved elements and the reasons why they are practically frozen during the evolution of millions of years remain a mystery.
18533827	The completion of the genome sequences of both rice and Magnaporthe oryzae has strengthened the position of rice blast disease as a model to study plant-pathogen interactions in monocotyledons. Genetic studies of blast resistance in rice were established in Japan as early as 1917. Despite such long-term study, examples of cultivars with durable resistance are rare, partly due to our limited knowledge of resistance mechanisms. A rising number of blast resistance genes and quantitative trait loci (QTL) have been genetically described, and some have been characterized during the last 20 years. Using the rice genome sequence, can we now go a step further toward a better understanding of the genetics of blast resistance by combining all these results? Is such knowledge appropriate and sufficient to improve breeding for durable resistance? A review of bibliographic references identified 85 blast resistance genes and approximately 350 QTL, which we mapped on the rice genome. These data provide a useful update on blast resistance genes as well as new insights to help formulate hypotheses about the molecular function of blast QTL, with special emphasis on QTL for partial resistance. All these data are available from the OrygenesDB database.
18533828	Large amounts of expression data dealing with biotic stresses in rice have been produced in the past 5 years. Here, we extensively review approximately 70 publications and gather together information on more than 2,500 genes of the rice defense arsenal. This information was integrated into the OryGenesDB database. Several genes (e.g., metallothioneins and PBZ1) appear to be hallmarks of rice-pathogen interactions. Cross-referencing this information with the rice kinome highlighted some defense genes and kinases as possible central nodes of regulation. Cross referencing defense gene expression and quantitative trait loci (QTL) information identified some candidate genes for QTL. Overall, pathogenesis-related genes and disease regulators were found to be statistically associated with disease QTL. At the genomic level, we observed that some regions are richer than others and that some chromosomes (e.g., 11 and 12), which contain a lot of resistance gene analogs, have a low content of defense genes. Finally, we show that classical defense genes and defense-related genes such as resistance genes are preferentially organized in clusters. These clusters are not always coregulated and individual paralogs can show specific expression patterns. Thus, the rice defense arsenal has an ARCHIPELAGO-like genome structure at the macro and micro level. This resource opens new possibilities for marker-assisted selection and QTL cloning.
18534637	Rice bacterial blight, caused by Xanthomonasoryzae pv. Oryzae (Xoo), is one of the most serious rice diseases worldwide. The bacterial blight resistance trait from Oryza meyeriana, a wild rice species, was introduced into an elite japonica rice cultivar using asymmetric somatic hybridization. This study was carried out with the intention of understanding the molecular mechanism of incompatible interaction between Xoo and the stable somatic hybrids by using proteomic analyses. Proteins were extracted from leaves at 24, 48, and 72 h after Xoo inoculation and separated by 2-DE. A total of 77 protein spots changed their intensities significantly (p<0.05) by more than 1.5-fold at least at one time point. Sixty-four protein spots were successfully identified by MS analysis. Among them, 51 were known to be involved in photosynthesis. Up-regulation of Rubisco large subunit (RcbL) small fragments and down-regulation of RcbL big fragments indicated that intact RcbL and RcbL big fragments degraded following Xoo attack, which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. The differential expression of proteins related to signal transduction, antioxidant defense, photosynthesis, metabolism, and protein turnover during the Xoo infection, suggests the existence of a complex regulatory network in the somatic hybrid rice that increases resistance toward Xoo infection and damage.
18535011	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation has not been practical in pteridophytes, bryophytes and algae to date, although it is commonly used in model plants including Arabidopsis and rice. Here we present a rapid Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system for the haploid liverwort Marchantia polymorpha L. using immature thalli developed from spores. Hundreds of hygromycin-resistant plants per sporangium were obtained by co-cultivation of immature thalli with Agrobacterium carrying the binary vector that contains a reporter, the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene with an intron, and a selection marker, the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) gene. In this system, individual gemmae, which arise asexually from single initial cells, were analyzed as isogenic transformants. GUS activity staining showed that all hygromycin-resistant plants examined expressed the GUS transgene in planta. DNA analyses verified random integration of 1-5 copies of the intact T-DNA between the right and the left borders into the M. polymorpha genome. The efficient and rapid Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of M. polymorpha should provide molecular techniques to facilitate comparative genomics, taking advantage of this unique model plant that retains many features of the common ancestor of land plants.
18536411	Near infrared reflectance spectroscopy is a newly developed method capable of analyzing the content of specific compound in the detected sample quickly and efficiently. Near infrared reflectance spectroscopy has been wildly used in many fields such as agriculture science, food industry, medical industry, chemical engineering and protection of environment and so on. In the present paper firstly the principle, technique method and merits of near infrared reflectance spectroscopy were described. Then the application of near infrared reflectance spectroscopy to the seeds of many crops, i.e. wheat, rice, rape and apple, was reviewed and discussed in brief. Based on this introduction, the potential value of the application of near infrared reflectance spectroscopy to the grass seeds quality certification was discussed in the four areas, i.e. the grass seed variety discrimination, the standard percentage rate of grass seed germination testing, the scale of the content of grass seed moisture, and the evaluation of the grass seed vigor and the purity of grass seed. Finally, it was concluded that the application of near infrared reflectance spectroscopy to the grass seed quality certification is significant both in the academic and the technical areas because near infrared reflectance spectroscopy will not only improve the efficiency of grass seed certification, saving manual work and testing time, but also help expand the extent and application of routine quality certification of grass seeds.
18536734	We have recently reported that phytosteryl ferulates isolated from rice bran inhibit nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity in macrophages. In the present study, we investigated the effect of gamma-oryzanol (gamma-ORZ), a mixture of phytosteryl ferulates, cycloartenyl ferulate (CAF), one of the components of gamma-ORZ, and ferulic acid (FA), a possible metabolite of gamma-ORZ in vivo, on a model of colitis in mice. We induced colitis with dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) in mice and monitored disease activity index (DAI), histopathology score, tissue myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, mRNA expressions of cytokines and COX-2, colon length, antioxidant potency and NF-kappaB activity in colitis tissue. Both DAI and histopathology score revealed that DSS induced a severe mucosal colitis, with a marked increase in the thickness of the muscle layer, distortion and loss of crypts, depletion of goblet cells and infiltration of macrophages, granulocytes and lymphocytes. MPO activity, pro-inflammatory cytokines and COX-2 levels, NF-kappaB p65 nuclear translocation and inhibitory protein of nuclear factor-kappaB-alpha degradation levels were significantly increased in DSS-induced colitis tissues. gamma-ORZ (50 mg kg(-1) day(-1) p.o.) markedly inhibited these inflammatory reactions and CAF had a similar potency. In vitro assay demonstrated that gamma-ORZ and CAF had strong antioxidant effects comparable to those of alpha-tocopherol. Phytosteryl ferulates could be new potential therapeutic and/or preventive agents for gastrointestinal inflammatory diseases. Their anti-inflammatory effect could be mediated by inhibition of NF-kappaB activity, which was at least partly due to the antioxidant effect of the FA moiety in the structure of phytosteryl ferulates.
18536762	This paper presents data from an epidemiologic investigation of an outbreak of gastroenteritis that occurred in Bari, Southern Italy, in June 2005. The source of the outbreak was traced to consumption of rice "arancini" (a typical Italian food prepared with rice, mozzarella cheese, eggs and bread crumbs), prepared in a traditional bakery in town. Salmonella enteritidis strains were isolated from affected patients, bakery personnel and food items. Isolates were analysed by using traditional microbiological methods to determine their serotype, by testing resistance to antimicrobial agents, and by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) profiling. Epidemiologic investigation showed a strong association between the consumption of rice "arancini" and illness (RR: 7.0; 95% CI: 1.14 - 40.97; p < 0.001). All outbreak isolates of Salmonella enteriditis had identical PFGE patterns and this result confirmed the source of infection. The data obtained in this study confirms the value of molecular typing by PFGE, in epidemiologic investigations of outbreaks caused by S. enteritidis. With proper standardization, molecular typing of S. enteritidis strains, in conjunction with established typing methods, could eventually form the basis of an effective epidemiologic surveillance system that would be invaluable in developing rational strategies for control and better understanding of its pathogenicity for man.
18537416	Ab initio CCSD(T)cc-pVTZ//B3LYP6-311G(**) and CCSD(T)/complete basis set (CBS) calculations of stationary points on the C(6)H(3) potential energy surface have been performed to investigate the reaction mechanism of C(2)H with diacetylene and C(4)H with acetylene. Totally, 25 different C(6)H(3) isomers and 40 transition states are located and all possible bimolecular decomposition products are also characterized. 1,2,3- and 1,2,4-tridehydrobenzene and H(2)CCCCCCH isomers are found to be the most stable thermodynamically residing 77.2, 75.1, and 75.7 kcal/mol lower in energy than C(2)H + C(4)H(2), respectively, at the CCSD(T)/CBS level of theory. The results show that the most favorable C(2)H + C(4)H(2) entrance channel is C(2)H addition to a terminal carbon of C(4)H(2) producing HCCCHCCCH, 70.2 kcal/mol below the reactants. This adduct loses a hydrogen atom from the nonterminal position to give the HCCCCCCH (triacetylene) product exothermic by 29.7 kcal/mol via an exit barrier of 5.3 kcal/mol. Based on Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations under single-collision conditions, triacetylene+H are concluded to be the only reaction products, with more than 98% of them formed directly from HCCCHCCCH. The C(2)H + C(4)H(2) reaction rate constants calculated by employing canonical variational transition state theory are found to be similar to those for the related C(2)H + C(2)H(2) reaction in the order of magnitude of 10(-10) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) for T = 298-63 K, and to show a negative temperature dependence at low T. A general mechanism for the growth of polyyne chains involving C(2)H + H(C[triple bond]C)(n)H --> H(C[triple bond]C)(n+1)H + H reactions has been suggested based on a comparison of the reactions of ethynyl radical with acetylene and diacetylene. The C(4)H + C(2)H(2) reaction is also predicted to readily produce triacetylene + H via barrierless C(4)H addition to acetylene, followed by H elimination.
18538315	We isolated flattened shoot meristem (fsm) mutants in rice that showed defective seedling growth and died in the vegetative phase. Since most fsm plants had flat and small shoot apical meristems (SAMs), we suggest that FSM is required for proper SAM maintenance. FSM encodes a putative ortholog of Arabidopsis FASCIATA1 (FAS1) that corresponds to the p150 subunit of chromatin assembly factor-1 (CAF-1). FSM is expressed patchily in tissues with actively dividing cells, suggesting a tight association of FSM with specific cell-cycle phases. Double-target in situ hybridization counterstained with cell-cycle marker genes revealed that FSM is expressed mainly in the G(1) phase. In fsm, expressions of the two marker genes representing S- and G(2)- to M-phases were enhanced in SAM, despite a reduced number of cells in SAM, suggesting that S- and G(2)-phases are prolonged in fsm. In addition, developmental events in fsm leaves took place at the proper time, indicating that the temporal regulation of development occurs independently of the cell-cycle period. In contrast to the fasciated phenotype of Arabidopsis fas1, fsm showed size reduction of SAM. The opposite phenotypes between fsm and fas1 indicate that the SAM maintenance is regulated differently between rice and Arabidopsis.
18539176	This work reports a rapid, specific and sensitive multi-residue method based on the Quick Easy Cheap Effective Rugged and Safe (QuEChERS) sample preparation method and gas chromatography with mass spectrometric detection in the selected ion monitoring mode (GC-MS-SIM) using one quantification ion and two identification ions for the routine analysis of 203 pesticides in rice paddies. Analyses of fortified rice paddy samples were performed at different levels (0.05, 0.20 and 0.50 mg kg(-1)). Mean recoveries from five replicates ranged from 75% to 115%, with coefficients of variation lower than 17%. The limit of quantification was in the range of 0.002-0.05 mg kg(-1) for the pesticides. 1040 rice paddy samples were analyzed for method application.
18539606	HvHKT1 mediates K(+) or Na(+) uniport in yeast cells if the expression promoter is joined directly to the HvHKT1 cDNA, and Na(+)-K(+) symport if a 59 nucleotide polylinker is inserted. Our results show that three ATG triplets in the polylinker decreased the synthesis of the transporter and that the lower amount of transporter caused the functional change. With the rice HKT1 cDNA, the 59 nt polylinker changed the mode of Na(+) uptake from K(+)-insensitive to K(+)-inhibitable. These two modes of Na(+) uptake also occurred in rice plants.
18540108	Antioxidants having a 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging capacity in rice mold starters, which are used for the preparation of various Japanese fermented foods, and their effectiveness against the expression of blood adhesion molecules were examined. An antioxidant was isolated from the rice mold starters used for shochu and identified as pyranonigrin-S (PG-S) by (1)H-NMR, (13)C-NMR, and FAB-MS analyses. It was a derivative of pyranonigrin-A (PG-A), which has been isolated as an antioxidant from the rice mold starters. Pyranonigrins PG-A and PG-S were found to exist in spores on rice mold starters which had been prepared by Aspergillus awamori, A. kawachii, and A. saitoi. PG-S exhibited a higher level of DPPH radical scavenging activity than PG-A. PG-A was found to have a significant suppressive effect on the expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) induced by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) (P<0.05).
18540109	Over 1,600 genes encoding putative transcription factors have been identified in the Arabidopsis genome sequence, however, their physiological functions are not yet fully understood. In this study, a small subfamily of double B-box zinc finger (DBB, DOUBLE B-BOX) genes, encoding eight putative transcription factors, were characterized with reference to the circadian rhythm and the early photomorphogenic regulation of hypocotyl elongation in response to light signals. Among these, it was found that the transcriptions of five DBB genes were under the control of circadian rhythm. To gain insight into the physiological roles of these putative transcription factors, forward and reverse genetic studies were carried out. The results suggested that they are commonly implicated in light signal transduction during early photomorphogenesis, however, their functions are not totally redundant, as judged by the fact that their circadian-expression profiles (or phases) were distinctive from each other, and by the fact that some DBBs (named DBB1a, DBB1b, STO, and STH) were apparently implicated in light signal transduction in a negative manner, whereas another (named DBB3) was implicated in a positive manner with regard to light-induced inhibition of elongation of hypocotyls. We also found that homologous B-box zinc finger genes are widely conserved in higher plants (e.g., Oryza sativa). Taking this altogether, it is probable that in addition to previously characterized bZIP-type transcription factors (e.g., HY5 and HYH) and bHLH-type transcription factors (e.g., PIF4 and PIF5/PIL6), a set of B-box zinc finger transcription factors should also be taken into consideration for a better understanding of the complex molecular mechanisms underlying the early photomorphogenic development of Arabidopsis thaliana.
18540621	Allelopathic rice can release allelochemicals from roots to inhibit neighboring plant species, but little is currently known about their fate and impact on microorganisms in paddy soil. This study showed that allelopathic rice PI312777 released much higher concentrations of allelochemical (5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone) than non-allelopathic rice Liaojing-9 in field. When quantitative 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone was added into soil, flavone gave a short half-life of 18.27 +/- 2.32 h (r(2) = 0.94) and could easily be degraded into benzoic acid. Benzoic acid with a half-life of 29.99 +/- 2.19 h (r(2) = 0.96) was more resistant toward degradation in paddy soil. Furthermore, both the culturable microbial population and the entire microbial community structure of soil incubated with flavone and benzoic acid were evaluated using the soil dilution plate method and phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, respectively. It appeared from the results that flavone could reduce microorganisms especially for fungi present in paddy soil, while benzoic acid could induce a higher response for soil microorganisms especially for bacteria. Consequently, flavone would be responsible for the dynamics of soil microorganisms during the early period, and any observed effect during the late period would be very likely due to its degradation product benzoic acid rather than flavone itself. These results suggested that allelopathic rice varieties could modify soil microorganisms to their advantage through the release of allelochemicals. The concentration and fate of discriminating 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone between allelopathic and non-alleloparhic varieties tested in rice soil would result in the different patterns of microbial population and community structure in paddy ecosystems.
1854257	AlaSTAT is an enzyme-immunoassay method for the measurement of allergen specific IgE antibodies. This method has a special feature in that carbohydrate, nucleic acid and fat as well as protein allergens can be used as antigens. In this study, IgE antibodies were measured by the use of AlaSTAT kits which were able to detect IgE antibodies to protein or nucleic acid allergens, and the results were compared to those of skin tests and RAST. 1367 samples from 479 patients were examined with 20 allergens. The capacity in the AlaSTAT system was larger than that in the RAST system. The correlation coefficient between AlaSTAT and RAST was 0.90 (p less than 0.01) and the correspondence rate was 90.7%. When the rice allergen was used in RAST, a nonspecific reaction was observed at high concentrations of total IgE. However, no such reaction was observed in AlaSTAT, even with total IgE of 10,000 IU/ml. The sensitivity, specificity and correspondence rate to skin tests was 71%, 87% and 75% respectively. The specificity of AlaSTAT seemed to be slightly higher than that of RAST, but the sensitivity and the correspondence rate were similar to those of RAST. From these results, AlaSTAT appears to be a good or better method for the measurement of IgE antibodies in comparison with RAST.
18542997	To understand the function of the gibberellin (GA) transduction pathway during germination, the transcription factor gene GAMYB, which responds to the GA signal, has been studied in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) seeds. This gene, called LeGAMYBL1 is present as a single copy, and is expressed in both the embryo and endosperm during seed germination in gib-1 mutant (non-GA producing) and wild-type (cv. Glamour) seeds. It is also expressed in young vegetative tissues. There is an 83% similarity in the amino acid sequence of the binding domain of the protein that is encoded by this tomato GAMYB-like gene when compared to that encoded by the GAMYB genes from barley, rice and Arabidopsis. In both mutant and wild-type intact tomato seeds, LeGAMYBL1 expression increases during germination, is upregulated by gibberellic acid (GA(3)), and declines thereafter. LeGAMYBL1 transcripts are also present in non-germinating gib-1 mutant seeds imbibed in water, and they are upregulated by GA(3) during promotion of germination. However, dissected gib-1 embryos complete germination when imbibed in either water or GA(3), with almost no difference in the amount of mRNA transcribed by the LeGAMYBL1 gene during this event. This is indicative that GA(3) is not required for the expression of the LeGAMYBL1 gene, which is likely necessary, but not sufficient, for germination to be completed, especially in the intact seed. The germination-inhibiting hormone abscisic acid does not influence expression of this gene. Expression of the LeGAMYB1 gene also occurs in the endosperm, but there is no correlation between its expression and GA-promoted expression of the cell-wall-degrading enzyme endo-beta-mannanase.
18543009	Leymus cinereus and L. triticoides are large caespitose and rhizomatous perennial grasses, respectively. Previous studies detected quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling rhizome spreading near the viviparous1 (vp1) gene markers on linkage groups LG3a and LG3b in two families, TTC1 and TTC2, derived from Leymus triticoides x Leymus cinereus hybrids. The wheat tiller inhibition gene (tin3) is located on Triticum monococcum chromosome 3 A(m)L near vp1. Triticeae group 3 is reportedly collinear with rice chromosome 1, which also contains the maize barren stalk1 and rice lax branching orthogene near vp1. However, previous studies lacked cross-species markers for comparative mapping and showed possible rearrangements of Leymus group 3 in wheat-Leymus racemosus chromosome addition lines. Here, we developed expressed sequence tag (EST) markers from Leymus tiller and rhizomes and mapped sequences aligned to rice chromosome 1. Thirty-eight of 44 informative markers detected loci on Leymus LG3a and LG3b that were collinear with homoeologous sequences on rice chromosome 1 and syntenous in homoeologous group 3 wheat-Leymus and wheat-Thinopyrum addition lines. A SCARECROW-like GRAS-family transcription factor candidate gene was identified in the Leymus EST library, which aligns to the Leymus chromosome group 3 growth habit QTL and a 324-kb rice chromosome 1 region thought to contain the wheat tin3 gene.
18543963	Acoustic technology shows the capability of protein pellet homogenization from different tissue samples of soybean and rice in a manner comparable to the ordinary mortar/pestle method and far better than the vortex/ultrasonic method with respect to the resolution of the protein pattern through two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). With acoustic technology, noncontact tissue disruption and protein pellet homogenization can be carried out in a computer-controlled manner, which ultimately increases the efficiency of the process for a large number of samples. A lysis buffer termed the T-buffer containing TBP, thiourea, and CHAPS yields an excellent result for the 2D-PAGE separation of soybean plasma membrane proteins followed by the 2D-PAGE separation of crude protein of soybean and rice tissues. For this technology, the T-buffer is preferred because protein quantification is possible by eliminating the interfering compound 2-mercaptoethanol and because of the high reproducibility of 2D-PAGE separation.
18544097	Biological methane oxidation is a key process in the methane cycle of wetland ecosystems. The methanotrophic biomass may be grazed by protozoa, thus linking the methane cycle to the soil microbial food web. In the present study, the edibility of different methanotrophs for soil protozoa was compared. The number of methanotroph-feeding protozoa in a rice field soil was estimated by determining the most-probable number (MPN) using methanotrophs as food bacteria; naked amoebae and flagellates were the dominant protozoa. Among ten methanotrophic strains examined as a food source, seven yielded a number of protozoa comparable with the yield with Escherichia coli [10(4) MPN (g soil dry weight)(-1)], and three out of four Methylocystis spp. yielded significantly fewer numbers [10(2)-10(3) MPN (g soil dry weight)(-1)]. The lower edibility of the Methylocystis spp. was not explained either by their growth phase or by harmful effects on protozoa. Incubation of the soil under methane resulted in a higher number of protozoa actively grazing on methanotrophs, especially on the less-edible group. Protozoa isolated from the soil demonstrated a grazing preference on the different methanotrophs consistent with the results of MPN counts. The results indicate that selective grazing by protozoa may be a biological factor affecting the methanotrophic community in a wetland soil.
18544098	Methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) in soil are not only controlled by their main substrates, methane and oxygen, but also by nitrogen availability. We compared an unfertilized control with a urea-fertilized treatment and applied RNA-stable-isotope-probing to follow activity changes upon fertilization as closely as possible. Nitrogen fertilization of an Italian rice field soil increased the CH4 oxidation rates sevenfold. In the fertilized treatment, isopycnic separation of 13C-enriched RNA became possible after 7 days when 300 micromol 13CH4 g(dry soil)(-1) had been consumed. Terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprints and clone libraries documented that the type I methanotrophic genera Methylomicrobium and Methylocaldum assimilated 13CH4 nearly exclusively. Although previous studies had shown that the same soil contains a much larger diversity of MOB, including both type I and type II, nitrogen fertilization apparently activated only a small subset of the overall diversity of MOB, type I MOB in particular.
18544156	Arsenic is a toxic and highly abundant metalloid that endangers human health through drinking water and the food chain. The most common forms of arsenic in the environment are arsenate (As(V)) and arsenite (As(III)). As(V) is a non-functional phosphate analog that enters the food chain via plant phosphate transporters. Inside cells, As(V) becomes reduced to As(III) for subsequent extrusion or compartmentation. Although much is known about As(III) transport and handling in microbes and mammals, the transport systems for As(III) have not yet been characterized in plants. Here we show that the Nodulin26-like Intrinsic Proteins (NIPs) AtNIP5;1 and AtNIP6;1 from Arabidopsis thaliana, OsNIP2;1 and OsNIP3;2 from Oryza sativa, and LjNIP5;1 and LjNIP6;1 from Lotus japonicus are bi-directional As(III) channels. Expression of these NIPs sensitized yeast cells to As(III) and antimonite (Sb(III)), and direct transport assays confirmed their ability to facilitate As(III) transport across cell membranes. On medium containing As(V), expression of the same NIPs improved yeast growth, probably due to increased As(III) efflux. Our data furthermore provide evidence that NIPs can discriminate between highly similar substrates and that they may have differential preferences in the direction of transport. A subgroup of As(III) permeable channels that group together in a phylogenetic tree required N-terminal truncation for functional expression in yeast. This is the first molecular identification of plant As(III) transport systems and we propose that metalloid transport through NIPs is a conserved and ancient feature. Our observations are potentially of great importance for improved remediation and tolerance of plants, and may provide a key to the development of low arsenic crops for food production.
18544971	The present study was carried out to evaluate the nutritional quality of adlay (AD), buckwheat (BW) and waxy barley (WB), with particular respect to their fiber components. Plasma lipid parameters, gut transit time and thickness of the aortic wall in rats fed with different grains were evaluated and compared with rats fed on white rice (WR). The rats were then raised for 4 weeks on an obesogenic diet based on the American Institute of Nutrition-93 (AIN-93 G) diets containing 1% cholesterol and 20% dietary lipids. 40 male rats were divided into 4 groups and raised for 4 weeks with a diet containing one of the following grains: WR, AD, BW, or WB. Gut transit time was shortened depending on the grain, with the WB group having the shortest time, followed by the BW group and the AD group, and then the WR group. Plasma lipid profiles differed significantly according to grain combination, and the levels of triglycerides in the AD, BW and WB groups were significantly lower than that in the WR group. The BW and WB groups showed lower levels of total cholesterol and LDL-C, and higher HDL-C than the WR group, although the group fed on AD did not show such results owing to the high content of lipids and calories. Accordingly, the reduction in gut transit time resulted in decreasing levels of triglycerides, total cholesterol and LDL-C. Rats fed on WB and BW showed significantly larger aortic lumen than those fed with AD and WR. Also the wall thickness of the WB group was significantly thinner than that of the WR group. Consumption of BW- and WB-containing diets significantly improved several cardiovascular risk factors induced by obesity in experimental rats.
18545264	Establishment of the apical-basal axis is a critical event in plant embryogenesis. Two functionally distinct primordia (the plumule and radicle) are meristems that originate from the lower and upper regions, respectively, of the embryo and are arranged along an apical-basal axis. One rice mutant (OsCem), which alters the embryo axis pattern to produce multiple plumules and/or radicles, was characterized. The OsCem mutant plants showed three different phenotypes: a multiple-shoot type, a heart-shaped Siamese embryo having multiple plumules and a common radicle; a multiple-root type, an upside-down Y-shaped Siamese embryo possessing multiple radicles and a common plumule; and a connected twin type, a connected Siamese twin having two sets of plumules and radicles. These diverse phenotypes demonstrated that the upper and lower regions of the embryo axis have a similar potential to complete the full spectrum of the developmental program of multiple plumules and radicles, respectively. Genetic analysis and molecular mapping based on simple sequence repeat markers has revealed that a recessive gene was involved in the control of the connected Siamese embryo formation. By using an F2 mapping population derived from a cross between the OsCem mutant and the variety 95-15, the OsCem locus was mapped primarily to the short arm of chromosome 3 of rice (Oryza sativa) at the interval between markers RM148 (6.4 cM) and RM468 (7.5 cM). Subsequently, the OsCem locus was fine mapped to the interval between markers M5 (1.6 cM) and M6 (1.0 cM).
18545489	Within the Rayleigh-Rice theory the influence of layer boundary roughness on coherently reflected light is expressed using very complex formulae. Therefore we deal with the simplification of these formulae by employing an approximation based on neglecting cross-correlation effects between both the rough boundaries. It is shown that if the mean distance of the boundaries (mean thickness) is sufficiently large in comparison with the lateral dimensions of the roughness it is possible to describe the individual boundaries of the layers by matrices corresponding to isolated rough surfaces. This fact enables us to simplify the formulae for the optical quantities in a substantial way, which also simplifies the numerical calculation needed for the inverse problem. This statement is illustrated by means of a numerical analysis simulating ellipsometric and reflectometric data of rough silicon dioxide layers placed onto silicon single crystal substrates.
18545972	Bacterial blight (BB) of rice, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is the most devastating bacterial disease in rice. A virulence-attenuated mutant strain HNU89K9 of X. oryzae pv. oryzae (KACC10331), with a transposon insertion in the pilQ gene was used for this study. The pilQ was involved in the gene cluster pilMNOPQ of the Xoo genome. Growth rate of the pilQ mutant was similar to that of wild-type. At level of amino acids, PilQ of Xoo showed that a high sequence identities more than 94% and 70% to Xanthomonas species and to Xyllela fastidiosa, respectively but a low sequence homology less than 30% to other bacterial species. The twitching motility forming a marginal fringe on PSA media was observed on colony of the wild-type strain KACC10331, but not in mutant HNU89K9. Wild-type Xoo cells formed a biofilm on the surface of the PVC plastic test tube, while the mutant strain HNU89K9 did not form a biofilm. The results suggest that the pilQ gene of X. oryzae pv. oryzae plays a critical role in pathogenicity, twitching motility, and biofilm formation.
18546674
18546734	High levels of arsenic (As) in rice grain are a potential concern for human health. Variability in total As in rice was evaluated using 204 commercial rice samples purchased mostly in retail stores in upstate New York and supplemented with samples from Canada, France, Venezuela, and other countries. Total As concentration in rice varied from 0.005 to 0.710 mg kg(-1). We combined our data set with literature values to derive a global "normal" range of 0.08-0.20 mg kg(-1) for As concentration in rice. The mean As concentrations for rice from the U.S. and Europe (both 0.198 mg kg(-1)) were statistically similar and significantly higher than rice from Asia (0.07 mg kg(-1)). Using two large data sets from Bangladesh, we showed that As contaminated irrigation water, but not soil, led to increased grain As concentration. Wide variability found in U.S. rice grain was primarily influenced by region of growth rather than commercial type, with rice grown in Texas and Arkansas having significantly higher mean As concentrations than that from California (0.258 and 0.190 versus 0.133 mg kg(-1)). Rice from one Texas distributor was especially high, with 75% of the samples above the global "normal" range, suggesting production in an As contaminated environment.
18546735	Rice is a potentially important route of human exposure to arsenic, especially in populations with rice-based diets. However, arsenic toxicity varies greatly with species. The initial purpose of the present study was to evaluate arsenic speciation in U.S. rice. Twenty-four samples containing high levels of arsenic and produced in different regions of the U.S were selected from a previous market-basket survey. Arsenite and dimethyl arsinic acid (DMA) were the major species detected. DMA increased linearly with increasing total As but arsenite remained fairly constant at approximately 0.1 mg kg(-1), showing that rice high in As was dominated by DMA. A similar result was obtained when our data was combined with other published speciation studies for U.S. rice. However, when all published speciation data for rice was analyzed a second population dominated by inorganic As and lower levels of DMA was found. We thus categorized rice into DMA and Inorganic As types. Rice from the U.S. was predominantly the DMA type, as were single samples from Australia and China, whereas rice from Asia and Europe was the Inorganic As type. We suggest that methylation of As occurs within rice and that genetic differences lead to the two rice types. Insufficient understanding of DMA toxicity precludes a firm assessment of the relative health risks associated with the two rice types but, based on current knowledge, we suggest that the DMA rice type is likely to be less of a health risk than the Inorganic As rice type and, on this basis, rice from the U.S. may be safer than rice from Asia and Europe.
18546736	Rice can contain a relatively high amount of arsenic (As). We evaluated total and inorganic As concentrations in 39 samples of different types of rice sold in Spain. The analyses were performed in raw rice and in rice cooked by boiling to dryness in water spiked with As(V) (0.1-1 microg mL(-1)). In raw rice, inorganic As represented 27-93% of total As: total As = 0.188 +/- 0.078 microg g(-1) dry weight (dw); inorganic As = 0.114 +/- 0.046 microg g(-1) dw. After cooking, the rice retained between 45% and 107% of the As(V) added to the cooking water, and the inorganic As concentrations ranged between 0.428 microg g(-1) dw (0.1 microg mL(-1) in the cooking water) and 3.89 microg g(-1) dw (1.0 microg microL(-1) in the cooking water). For raw rice, the inorganic As intake of the Spanish population (16 g raw rice/day) remains below the tolerable daily intake (TDI) proposed by the WHO (2.1 microg inorganic As/day/kg body weight). In rice cooked with water contaminated with As(V), this cereal intake is sufficient to attain the TDI. The results reveal the need to consider the determination of inorganic As and the influence of cooking when evaluating the risks associated with the consumption of rice.
18547050	Volatile compounds of cooked rice from scented (Aychade, Fidji) and nonscented (Ruille) cultivars grown in the Camargue area in France were compared to that of a marketed Asian scented one (Thai) by gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). GC-O analyses of the organic extracts resulted in the perception of 40 odorous compounds. Only two compounds, oct-1-en-3-one and 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, were almost always perceived. Hierarchical cluster analysis showed that most of the difference between rice odors was linked to quantitative differences with only 11 compounds being specific to some of the rice. Sixty compounds were identified and quantified by GC-MS, including a few new odor-active components. Principal component analysis enabled us to differentiate scented cultivars from a nonscented one, and scented rice cultivars from Camargue from a Thai sample. Calculated odor-active values evidenced that the Thai sample odor differed from that of scented Camargue cultivars because of the degradation of lipids and of cinnamic acid compounds.
18547394	Sphingolipids are a structurally diverse group of molecules based on long-chain sphingoid bases that are found in animal, fungal and plant cells. In contrast to the situation in animals and yeast, much less is known about the spectrum of sphingolipid species in plants and the roles they play in mediating cellular processes. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of a plant ceramidase from rice (Oryza sativa spp. Japonica cv. Nipponbare). Sequence analysis suggests that the rice ceramidase (OsCDase) is similar to mammalian neutral ceramidases. We demonstrate that OsCDase is a bona fide ceramidase by heterologous expression in the yeast double knockout mutant Deltaypc1Deltaydc1 that lacks the yeast ceramidases YPC1p and YDC1p. Biochemical characterization of OsCDase showed that it exhibited classical Michaelis-Menten kinetics, with optimum activity between pH 5.7 and 6.0. OsCDase activity was enhanced in the presence of Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Mn(2+) and Zn(2+), but inhibited in the presence of Fe(2+). OsCDase appears to use ceramide instead of phytoceramide as a substrate. Subcellular localization showed that OsCDase is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi, suggesting that these organelles are sites of ceramide metabolism in plants.
18547447	To validate a 53-item quantitative FFQ (QFFQ) for the assessment of dietary protein intake in type 2 diabetic outpatients in Bamako, Mali. Consumption of protein-containing foods over the week preceding the interview was measured with a 7d QFFQ and compared with intakes measured with 48-h recalls. Centre National de Lutte contre le Diabte. Seventeen male and forty female adults with type 2 diabetes. Correlation between protein intakes estimated using the QFFQ and 48h recalls was 0.63 (P < 0.0001). There was no significant difference between the two methods concerning the total protein daily intakes and intakes per kilogram of body weight. The QFFQ indicated that foods of animal origin were a lesser source of protein. Animal protein intake did not differ between men and women but sources did. In men, the main sources were beef (54 % of total animal protein), fish (15 %) and milk powder (8 %). In women, the principal sources were fish (28 %), beef (20 %) and birds (13 %). In contrast, plant protein intake was significantly higher in men than in women (P = 0.01), but the same plant foods contributed in similar proportions for both genders, rice being by far the greatest source (47 % of plant protein in men, 53 % in women). The QFFQ developed in this study is a valid tool to evaluate dietary protein intakes in Malian diabetic subjects. While the total protein intakes were low in both men and women, differences in choices and amounts of protein food sources were shown.
18548184	The diversity and function of nitrogen-fixing bacteria colonizing rice roots are not well understood. A field experiment was conducted to determine the diversity of diazotrophic communities associated with roots of modern rice cultivars using culture-independent molecular analyses of nitrogenase gene (nifH) fragments. Experimental treatments included four modern rice cultivars (Oryza sativa, one Indica, one Japonica and two hybrid rice varieties) and three levels (0, 50, and 100 kg N ha(-1)) of N (urea) fertilizer application. Cloning and sequencing of 103 partial nifH genes showed that a diverse community of diazotrophs was associated with rice roots. However, the nifH gene fragments belonging to betaproteobacteria were dominant, accounting for nearly half of nifH sequences analyzed across the clone libraries. Most of them were similar to nifH fragments retrieved from wild rice and Kallar grass, with Azoarcus spp. being the closest cultured relatives. Alphaproteobacteria were also detected, but their relative abundance in the nifH gene pools was dramatically decreased with N fertilizer application. In addition, a high fraction of nifH gene pools was affiliated with methylotrophs and methane oxidizers. The sequence analysis was consistent with the terminal restriction fragment-length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprinting of the nifH gene fragments, which showed three of four dominant terminal restriction fragments were mainly related to betaproteobacteria based on in silico digestion of nifH sequences. T-RFLP analyses also revealed that the effects of N fertilizer on the nifH gene diversity retrieved from roots varied according to rice cultivars. In summary, the present study revealed the prevalence of betaproteobacterial sequences among the proteobacteria associated with roots of modern rice cultivars. This group of diazotrophs appeared less sensitive to N fertilizer application than diazotrophic alphaproteobacteria. Furthermore, methylotrophs may also play a role in nitrogen fixation on rice roots. However, it must be noted that due to the potential bias of polymerase chain reaction protocol, the significance of non-proteobacterial diazotrophs such as Firmicutes and anaerobic bacteria is possibly underestimated.
18548595	The effects of moderate-temperature aqueous butanol pretreatment of rice straw on several organic catalysts have been studied. Maximum delignification was obtained with an aromatic organic acid catalyst. Presoaking of straw in aqueous improved delignification, particularly in high solid-liquid rations. However, due to the difficulty of penetration of lignin into the solvent phase, an increase in the solid-liquid ratio appears to affect delignification. A two-stage catalytic solvent process involving presoaking at 80 degrees C followed by delignification at 120 degrees C resulted in 83% removal of lignin in aqueous-butanol, whereas 75% lignin removal was possible in ethanol. Higher reduction in the crystallinity was possible with etanol. Lignin produced by the solvent process offers desirable physical properties for polymer applications compared to Kraft lignin.
18548806	We investigated the nutritional habits of ultra-endurance runners before, during and after the Deutschlandlauf 2006 in Germany, from the north (Kap Arkona-Rgen) to the south (Lrrach), over 1,200 km and 17 stages. Twenty male ultra-runners completed a questionnaire about their nutrition before, during and after the race. In the 4 weeks, and the day before the race, 70% of the runners followed no special diet. In the morning before the start of a stage, the main nutrients were buns with jam, butter and cheese and the preferred drink was coffee. During the stages, the athletes preferred to consume bread, bananas and chocolate and preferably drank pure water, Apfelschorle and Coca Cola. In the evening, the athletes preferred to consume meat, noodles, pure water and beer. During the run, 40% of the athletes had a special desire for salty and fatty food and 10% a particular reluctance for sweet and carbohydrate-rich products. After the race, the runners preferred apples, vegetables, rice, bread, pure water, Apfelschorle and beer. Multi-vitamin products, multi-mineral products as well as magnesium were the preferred supplements before, during and after the race. We conclude that 70% of the ultra-endurance runners in the Deutschlandlauf 2006 followed no special diet before the race. Multi-vitamins, multi-minerals and magnesium were preferably consumed as ergogenic supplements. Before the start of a stage they ate a normal breakfast; during a stage they preferred carbohydrate-rich products and water; and in the evening after a stage they preferred to consume meat with a carbohydrate-rich nutrition and drank water as well as beer.
18549237	Stereoselective total synthesis of botcinins C, D, and F is effectively carried out through asymmetric aldol reactions, 6-endo ring closure, and SmI2-mediated 3,4-trans or -cis stereoselective intramolecular Reformatsky reaction. Rapid esterification of the main skeleton of botcinins with the chiral side chain using MNBA and DMAP produced botcinin D, an antifungal chemical against a pathogen of rice blast disease.
18549769	Many varieties of transgenic rice are under development in countries where wild and weedy relatives co-occur with the crop. To evaluate possible risks associated with pollen-mediated transgene dispersal, we conducted a two-year survey in Vietnam to examine overlapping flowering periods of rice (Oryza sativa L.), weedy rice (O. sativa), and wild rice (O. rufipogon Griff.), all of which are inter-fertile. We surveyed populations in two regions of the Mekong Delta, northern and southern, and at three sites in each of three habitats per region: fresh water, saline water, and acid sulfate soil. Weedy rice frequently flowered simultaneously with neighboring cultivated rice plants. Flowering was more seasonal in wild rice and often peaked in November and December. Peak flowering times of wild rice overlapped with adjacent rice fields at all of the saline sites and half of the acid sulfate sites. The longer flowering season of wild rice ensured that crop-to-wild gene flow was possible in fresh water habitats as well. Our second objective was to determine whether wild and weedy rice populations are exposed to pests that could be targeted by future transgenes, which may then provide fitness benefits. These populations shared many pathogen and insect herbivore species with cultivated rice (leaffolder, locust, cricket, planthoppers, rice bug, stem borer, sheath blight, blast, bacterial leaf blight, and brown spot). Damage by leaffolders and locusts was the most frequently observed insect feeding damage on all three rice types. Indicator species analysis revealed that most of the insect herbivores were associated with particular habitats, demonstrating the importance of broad geographic sampling for transgenic rice risk assessment. These survey data and the strong likelihood of gene flow from cultivated rice suggest that further studies are needed to examine the effects of transgenic traits such as resistance to pests on the abundance of wild and weedy rice.
18549841	Results of well-controlled prospective clinical trials showed the efficacy of lipid-lowering therapies in the reduction of cardiovascular (CV) events in western populations, but they were not reported with a Chinese population. This multicenter study was conducted to determine the effects of Xuezhikang (XZK), a partially purified extract of red yeast rice, on lipoprotein and CV end points in Chinese patients who experienced a previous myocardial infarction. Nearly 5,000 of these patients with average low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels at baseline were randomly assigned either to placebo or to XZK daily for an average of 4.5 years. The primary end point was a major coronary event that included nonfatal myocardial infarction and death from coronary heart disease. Frequencies of the primary end point were 10.4% in the placebo group and 5.7% in the XZK-treated group, with absolute and relative decreases of 4.7% and 45%, respectively. Treatment with XZK also significantly decreased CV and total mortality by 30% and 33%, the need for coronary revascularization by 1/3, and lowered total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides, but raised high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. In conclusion, long-term therapy with XZK significantly decreased the recurrence of coronary events and the occurrence of new CV events and deaths, improved lipoprotein regulation, and was safe and well tolerated.
18550188	One hundred (100) samples of rice purchased from retail markets in five different cities (Rabat, Tmara, Sal, Casablanca and Mkns) in Morocco from January to October 2006 were surveyed for the presence of ochratoxin A (OTA) using Accelerated Solvent Extraction (ASE) coupled to liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The identification of OTA in positive rice samples was confirmed by methyl ester derivatization. Analytical results showed a frequency of contamination of 26% of total analyzed rice samples. The percentage of contamination of samples was 24, 26.6, 16.6, 27.7 and 30% in Rabat, Tmara, Mkns, Sal and Casablanca respectively. Levels of OTA in positive samples ranged between 0.08 and 47 ng/g. The average contamination of all analyzed samples was 3.5 ng/g. The highest frequency of positive samples (30%) and the most contaminated sample (47 ng/g) was found in a sample from Casablanca city. 14 out of 100 total samples exceeded the maximum level of 5 ng/g set by European regulations for OTA in cereals. Based in the results presented in this study, the estimated daily intake of OTA in rice was 0.32 ng/kg bw/day for Moroccan consumers.
18550232	Carbon-14 (14C) is one of the most important radionuclides from the perspective of dose estimation due to the nuclear fuel cycle. Ten years of monitoring data on 14C in airborne emissions, in atmospheric CO2 and in rice grain collected around the Tokai reprocessing plant (TRP) showed an insignificant radiological effect of the TRP-derived 14C on the public, but suggested a minor contribution of the TRP-derived 14C to atmospheric 14C concentrations, and an influence on 14C concentrations in rice grain at harvest. This paper also summarizes a modelling exercise (the so-called rice scenario of the IAEA's EMRAS program) in which 14C concentrations in air and rice predicted with various models using information on 14C discharge rates, meteorological conditions and so on were compared with observed concentrations. The modelling results showed that simple Gaussian plume models with different assumptions predict monthly averaged 14C concentrations in air well, even for near-field receptors, and also that specific activity and dynamic models were equally good for the prediction of inter-annual changes in 14C concentrations in rice grain. The scenario, however, offered little opportunity for comparing the predictive capabilities of these two types of models because the scenario involved a near-chronic release to the atmosphere. A scenario based on an episodic release and short-term, time-dependent observations is needed to establish the overall confidence in the predictions of environmental 14C models.
18550379	Fusion proteins integrating dual pesticidal functions have been devised over the last 10 years to improve the effectiveness and potential durability of pest-resistant transgenic crops, but little attention has been paid to the impact of the fusion partners on the actual activity of the resulting hybrids. Here we assessed the ability of the rice cysteine protease inhibitor, oryzacystatin I (OCI), to retain its protease inhibitory potency when used as a template to devise hybrid inhibitors with dual activity against papain-like proteases and carboxypeptidase A (CPA). C-terminal variants of OCI were generated by fusing to its C-terminal end: (i) the primary inhibitory site of the small CPA inhibitor potato carboxypeptidase inhibitor (PCI, amino acids 35-39); or (ii) the complete sequence of PCI (a.a. 1-39). The hybrid inhibitors were expressed in E. coli and tested for their inhibitory activity against papain, CPA and digestive cysteine proteases of herbivorous and predatory arthropods. In contrast with the primary inhibitory site of PCI, the entire PCI attached to OCI was as active against CPA as free, purified PCI. The OCI-PCI hybrids also showed activity against papain, but the presence of extra amino acids at the C terminus of OCI negatively altered its inhibitory potency against cysteine proteases. This negative effect, although not preventing dual binding to papain and CPA, was correlated with an increased binding affinity for papain presumably due to non-specific interactions with the PCI domain. These results confirm the potential of OCI and PCI for the design of fusion inhibitors with dual protease inhibitory activity, but also point out the possible functional costs associated with protein domain grafting to recipient pesticidal proteins.
18550502	Phage display is a powerful method to study protein-protein interactions. In order to study the molecular mechanism of cytoplasmic male sterility and fertility restoration in Honglian rice, the mRNA was isolated with PolyA Tract mRNA Isolation Kit from the anther of F1 hybrid rice and the double strand (ds) cDNA was synthesized by reverse transcription. Then the directional EcoRI /Hind III linkers were ligated into the ends of ds cDNA and the ds cDNA was further digested with EcoR I and Hind, which resulted in ds cDNA with EcoR I and Hind III ends. The digested ds cDNA fragments longer than 300 bp in length were fractionated with Mini Column, then ligated into the T7 Select 10-3b vertor with EcoR I and Hind III ends. After packaging in vitro, the T7 Select 10-3b vertor was transformed into BL T5403 to construct the T7 phage display library. Analysis showed that the library contained 1.03 x 106 clones per microliter, and approximately 100% of the clones in library was recombinant. The titer of the amplied library was 2.14 x 1012 pfu/mL, and the insert length of the recombinants over 300 bp was about 97%.
18550504	Spikeletes per panicle (SPP) is one of the important yield components in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Appropriate heading date (HD) and plant height (PH) are prerequisites for desired yield. In this study, the near isogenic lines (NILs) of chromosome 7, which harbored QTLs controlling HD, PH and SPP were constructed based on the primary QTLs results of the recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from Zhenshan 97 and HR5. The near isogenic lines (RILs) of chromosome 8, which harbored QTLs of HD, PH, and SPP, were constructed using heterogeneous inbred family based on RILs. The genetic effects of two pleiotropic intervals were assessed accurately in these two NILs. The QTLs identified by the two near isogenic lines indicated that the three traits were controlled by the same QTL or tightly linked QTL. The QTLs controlling the three traits had the same direction on additive effects and dominant effects. And these traits showed bimodal or discontinuous distributions in respective NILs. These results imply that the same gene might control the three traits simultaneously (i.e., the gene pleiotropism). Along with this, the relationships between HD and PH and yield, the application of significantly positive correlation for the three traits in breeding program, and the advantage and disadvantage of the two constructing NILs methods were also discussed in this study.
18551730	Enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose for sugar production offers advantages of higher conversion, minimal by-product formation, low energy requirements, and mild operating conditions over other chemical conversions. The development of a kinetic model, based on observable, macroscopic properties of the overall system, is helpful in design and economic evaluation of processes for sugar conversion and ethanol production. A kinetic model is presented, incorporating enzyme adsorption, product inhibition, and considers a multiple enzyme and substrate system. This model was capable of simulating saccharification of a lignocellulosic material, rice straw, at high substrate (up to 333 g/L) and enzyme concentrations (up to 9.2 FPU/mL) that are common to proposed process designs.
18551782	A survey ofaflatoxins and zearalenone (ZEA) in 120 samples, including cassava chip (12), maize (12), rice bran (24), broken rice (24), and complete feeds for growing pigs (24) and sows (24) was carried out in southern Vietnam. Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), B2 (AFB2), G1 (AFG1) and G2 (AFG2) were determined by an HPLC method using an immunoaffinity column for clean-up. Zearalenone was analysed by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) AgraQuant. High incidences of aflatoxins and ZEA in feedstuffs and pig feeds (83.3%-100%) were detected. Aflatoxins and ZEA were detected in all commodities analyzed. Aflatoxin B1 was found in 100, 92, 92, 83, 100 and 96%, respectively, of samples of cassava chip, maize, rice bran, broken rice, and complete feeds for growing pigs and sows, with mean concentrations of 0.86, 77.5, 1.3, 1.6, 4.7 and 7.5 microg/kg, respectively. AFB2 and AFG1 were found in low concentrations and co-occurred with AFB1 in all samples where they were found. ZEA was detected in 8%, 33%, 36%, 21%, 67% and 67%, respectively, of the samples of cassava chip, maize, rice bran, broken rice, and complete feeds for growing pigs and sows, with average concentrations of 10.0, 163.5, 83.1, 31.4, 86.0 and 101.4 microg/kg, respectively. The high incidence of mycotoxins found in feedstuffs highlights the need for periodic monitoring and prevention ofmycotoxins, not only in feeds, but also in food for human consumption.
18553105	During brown planthopper (BPH) feeding on rice plants, we employed a modified representational difference analysis (RDA) method to detect rare transcripts among those differentially expressed in SNBC61, a BPH resistant near-isogenic line (NIL) carrying the Bph1 resistance gene. This identified 3 RDA clones: OsBphi237, OsBphi252 and OsBphi262. DNA gel-blot analysis revealed that the loci of the RDA clones in SNBC61 corresponded to the alleles of the BPH resistant donor Samgangbyeo. Expression analysis indicated that the RDA genes were up-regulated in SNBC61 during BPH feeding. Interestingly, analysis of 64 SNBC NILs, derived from backcrosses of Samgangbyeo with a BPH susceptible Nagdongbyeo, using a cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker indicated that OsBphi252, which encodes a putative lipoxygenase (LOX), co-segregates with BPH resistance. Our results suggest that OsBphi252 is tightly linked to Bph1, and may be useful in marker-assisted selection (MAS) for resistance to BPH.
18553587	Assessment was made to evaluate the effect of hydrogen peroxide pretreatment on the change of the structural features and the enzymatic hydrolysis of rice straw. Changes in the lignin content, weight loss, accessibility for Cadoxen, water holding capacity, and crystallinity of straw were measured during pretreatment to express the modification of the lignocellulosic structure of straw. The rates and the extents of enzymatic hydrolysis, cellulase adsorption, and cellobiose accumulation in the initial stage of hydrolysis were determined to study the pretreatment effect on hydrolysis. Pretreatment at 60 degrees C for 5 h in a solution with 1% (w/w) H(2)O(2) and NaOH resulted in 60% delignification, 40% weight loss, a fivefold increase in the accessibility for Cadoxen, an one times increase in the water-holding capacity, and only a slight decrease in crystallinity as compared with that of the untreated straw. Improvement on the pretreatment effect could be made by increasing the initial alkalinity and the pretreatment temperature of hydrogen peroxide solution. A saturated improvement on the structural features was found when the weight ratio of hydrogen peroxide to straw was above 0.25 g H(2)O(2)/g straw in an alkaline H(2)O(2) solution with 1% (w/w) NaOH at 32 degrees C. The initial rates and extents of hydrolysis, cellulase adsorption, and cellobiose accumulation in hydrolysis were enhanced in accordance with the improved structural features of straw pretreated. A four times increase in the extent of the enzymatic hydrolysis of straw for 24 h was attributed to the alkaline hydrogen peroxide pretreatment.
18553867	A comparative study on the saccharification of pretreated rice straw was brought about by using cellulase enzyme produced by Aspergillus terreus ATCC 52430 and its mutant strain UNGI-40. The effect of enzyme and substrate concentrations on the saccharification rate at 24 and 48 were studied. A syrup with 7% sugar concentration was obtained with a 10% substrate concentration for the mutant case, whereas a syrup with 6.8% sugar concentration was obtained with 3.5 times concentrated enzyme from the wild strain. A high saccharification value was obtained with low substrate concentration; the higher the substrate concentration used, the lower the percent saccharification. The glucose content in the hydrolysate comprised 80-82% of total reducing sugars; the remainder was cellobiose and xylose together. The hydrolysate supported the growth of yeasts Candida utilis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATCC 52431. A biomass with a 48% protein content was obtained. The essential amino acid composition of yeast biomass was determined.
18553883	To obtain fundamental information for nutritional improvement of rice (Oryza sativa) seed proteins, the alpha polypeptides of the major storage protein glutelin varied over the genus Oryza were qualitatively and quantitatively characterized with unique methods. The polypeptides were maximally separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) composed of nonequilibrium pH gradient gel electrophoresis (NEPHGE) and higher temperature SDS-PAGE. Then the subunit for each polypeptide spot was identified with the sequential immunodetection called a step-by-step detection method, making use of highly subunit-specific antibodies. The comparative analysis showed considerable variation in the accumulation level of A-type and B-type glutelin subunits and found unknown glutelin subunits that were unable to be identified with the antibodies used. Wild species accumulating a high amount of lysine-rich B-type glutelin subunits and unknown unique subunits were identified as they might play a crucial role in nutritional quality improvement of the cultivated rice.
1855405	One hundred and fifty two samples of honey were purchased from apiaries and markets in Taiwan, meanwhile fifty samples of infant food including powders of infant milk, wheat, rice and commercial mixed cereals, as well as juice had been bought from supermarkets in Taipei city from July 1988 through April 1989. The samples were used for detecting the presence of Clostridium botulinum spores. Honey samples were prepared by dialysis to obtain the bacterial spores; however, infant food had been innoculated directly into the cooked meat medium. The suspicious isolated colonies were identified by Vitek automatic microbial identification system. The supernatants of cooked meat medium enrichment were performed for typing botulinum toxins via the laboratory animal toxicity test. The results showed that two samples of honey contained the spores of C. botulinum type B, but none in samples of infant food. The specific response of clinical signs in mice, after being administered the supernatant of suspected cultural broth, were also observed and described in this article.
18554403	The Solanaceae family contains a number of important crop species including potato (Solanum tuberosum) which is grown for its underground storage organ known as a tuber. Albeit the 4th most important food crop in the world, other than a collection of approximately 220,000 Expressed Sequence Tags, limited genomic sequence information is currently available for potato and advances in potato yield and nutrition content would be greatly assisted through access to a complete genome sequence. While morphologically diverse, Solanaceae species such as potato, tomato, pepper, and eggplant share not only genes but also gene order thereby permitting highly informative comparative genomic analyses. In this study, we report on analysis 89.9 Mb of potato genomic sequence representing 10.2% of the genome generated through end sequencing of a potato bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone library (87 Mb) and sequencing of 22 potato BAC clones (2.9 Mb). The GC content of potato is very similar to Solanum lycopersicon (tomato) and other dicotyledonous species yet distinct from the monocotyledonous grass species, Oryza sativa. Parallel analyses of repetitive sequences in potato and tomato revealed substantial differences in their abundance, 34.2% in potato versus 46.3% in tomato, which is consistent with the increased genome size per haploid genome of these two Solanum species. Specific classes and types of repetitive sequences were also differentially represented between these two species including a telomeric-related repetitive sequence, ribosomal DNA, and a number of unclassified repetitive sequences. Comparative analyses between tomato and potato at the gene level revealed a high level of conservation of gene content, genic feature, and gene order although discordances in synteny were observed. Genomic level analyses of potato and tomato confirm that gene sequence and gene order are conserved between these solanaceous species and that this conservation can be leveraged in genomic applications including cross-species annotation and genome sequencing initiatives. While tomato and potato share genic features, they differ in their repetitive sequence content and composition suggesting that repetitive sequences may have a more significant role in shaping speciation than previously reported.
18554778	We have recently examined the oncolytic effect of arabinoxylan rice bran, MGN-3/biobran, against solid Ehrlich carcinoma (SEC)-bearing mice via immune-modulation and apoptosis [N.K. Badr El-din, E. Noaman, M. Ghoneum, In vivo tumor inhibitory effects of nutritional rice bran supplement MGN-3/biobran on Ehrlich carcinoma-bearing mice, Nutr. Cancer 60 (2) (2008) 235-244]. In the present study, we examined the antioxidant system as another possible mechanism through which MGN-3 exerts its oncostatic potential. Female albino mice were inoculated intramuscularly in the right thigh with Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells. MGN-3 (25 mg/kg body weight) was injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) six times a week for 25 days into mice at either day 4 or day 11 post-EAC cell inoculation. Tumor growth, lipid peroxidation (LPx), glutathione (GSH) contents, the activity of the antioxidant scavenger enzymes, and alterations in gene expression were examined. MGN-3 efficiently suppressed the growth of tumors, which was associated with normalization of the LPx levels and augmentation of GSH contents. MGN-3 enhanced the activity of the endogenous antioxidant scavenging enzymes -- superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase (CAT) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) -- in blood, liver, and tumor tissue. Similarly it up-regulated the expression of GPx, SOD1 and CAT mRNA in the liver. The effect of MGN-3 was more pronounced when treated early, at day 4 of tumor cell inoculation, as compared to later treatment at 11 days. In conclusion, MGN-3-induced oncostatic activity by modulating lipid peroxidation, augmenting the antioxidant defense system and protecting against oxidative stress.
18555418	The data on ethanol-water vapor-liquid equilibrium in the presence of cellulase enzyme, nutrients, yeast, and rice straw indicated a substantial increase in ethanol concentration in vapor phase at reduced pressures. Maximum relative volatility of ethanol in the presence of added components is approximately twice that of a pure ethanol-water system. The equation correlating the activity coefficient and ethanol concentration in the liquid phase adequately represents the equilibrium behavior.
18555602	In the present study, pot experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of foliar application of two silica (Si) sols on the alleviation of cadmium (Cd) toxicity in contaminated soil to rice. Results showed that the foliar application of Si sols significantly increased the dry weight of grains (without husk) and shoots in rice grown in Cd contaminated soil, whereas the Cd concentration in the grains and shoots decreased obviously. The total accumulation of Cd in rice grains also decreased with the application of both of the Si sols, but no significant effect was found on the Cd accumulation in the shoots. For the optimal effect, Si-sol-B should be foliar applied at the tillering-stage during rice growth. The mechanism of Si foliar application to alleviate the toxicity and accumulation of Cd in grains of rice may be related to the probable Cd sequestration in the shoot cell walls.
18557187	In this experiment, the apparent digestibility of diets with isonitrogenous amounts of different carbohydrate sources was determined in Kadon pigs, which are native to the North-East of Thailand and typically kept on small-holder farms. Eight male and eight female pigs were used in a 4 x 4 Latin square design with diets containing either ground corn (GC), rice bran (RB), broken rice (BR) or cassava chips (CC). The diet with BR induced the highest digestibilities for protein and energy, but also had the highest ingredients costs. In essence, the diet with CC had produced the second highest digestibilities, whereas this diet was 18% less expensive than the diet with BR. Nitrogen (N) retention, expressed as % of N intake, was highest in the pigs fed the diet containing BR. The outcome of this study may contribute to the formulation of pig diets when aiming at optimizing ingredient costs and growth performance.
18557620	Golden apple snails (Pomacea canaliculata) are serious pests of rice in South East Asia. Cyclotides are backbone cyclized peptides produced by plants from Rubiaceae and Violaceae. In this study, we investigated the molluscicidal activity of cyclotides against golden apple snails. Crude cyclotide extracts from both Oldenlandia affinis and Viola odorata plants showed molluscicidal activity comparable to the synthetic molluscicide metaldehyde. Individual cyclotides from each extract demonstrated a range of molluscicidal activities. The cyclotides cycloviolacin O1, kalata B1, and kalata B2 were more toxic to golden apple snails than metaldehyde, while kalata B7 and kalata B8 did not cause significant mortality. The toxicity of the cyclotide kalata B2 on a nontarget species, the Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus), was three times lower than the common piscicide rotenone. Our findings suggest that the existing diversity of cyclotides in plants could be used to develop natural molluscicides.
18557835	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of rice shoot and root tonoplast-enriched and plasma membrane-enriched membrane fractions were carried out to look at tissue-specific expression, and to identify putative regulatory sites of membrane transport proteins. Around 90 unique membrane proteins were identified, which included primary and secondary transporters, ion channels and aquaporins. Primary H(+) pumps from the AHA family showed little isoform specificity in their tissue expression pattern, whereas specific isoforms of the Ca(2+) pump ECA/ACA family were expressed in root and shoot tissues. Several ABC transporters were detected, particularly from the MDR and PDR subfamilies, which often showed expression in either roots or shoots. Ammonium transporters were expressed in root, but not shoot, tissue. Large numbers of sugar transporters were expressed, particularly in green tissue. The occurrence of phosphorylation sites in rice transporters such as AMT1;1 and PIP2;6 agrees with those previously described in other species, pointing to conserved regulatory mechanisms. New phosphosites were found in many transporters, including H(+) pumps and H(+):cation antiporters, often at residues that are well conserved across gene families. Comparison of root and shoot tissue showed that phosphorylation of AMT1;1 and several further transporters may be tissue dependent.
18557896	Bacteria living in soil collected from a rice paddy in Fukuoka, Japan, were examined by electron microscopy using a freeze-substitution fixation method. Most of the observed bacteria could be categorized, based on the structure of the cell envelope and overall morphology, into one of five groups: (i) bacterial spore; (ii) Gram-positive type; (iii) Gram-negative type; (iv) Mycobacterium like; and (v) Archaea like. However, a few of the bacteria could not be readily categorized into one of these groups because they had unique cell wall structures, basically resembling those of Gram-negative bacteria, but with the layer corresponding to the peptidoglycan layer in Gram-negative bacteria being extremely thick, like that of the cortex of a bacterial spore. The characteristic morphological features found in many of these uncultured, soil-dwelling cells were the nucleoid being in a condensed state and the cytoplasm being shrunken. We were able to produce similar morphologies in vitro using a Salmonella sp. by culturing under low-temperature, low-nutrient conditions, similar to those found in some natural environments. These unusual morphologies are therefore hypothesized to be characteristic of bacteria in resting or dormant stages.
1855863	In order to study the relationship between daily consumption of mouldy food and the incidence of oesophageal cancer, we examined the mutagenicity of Alternaria alternata and Penicillium cyclopium, which seriously contaminate grain in Linxian county, China. We first examined extracts of cultured strains of A. alternata. In the reverse mutation test, positive results were obtained in 85% of strains; positive results were seen in 84% of 19/20 strains in the rec assay. Eight of ten strains induced sister chromatid exchange, and two of eight strains induced chromatid breaks. Six of seven strains induced unscheduled DNA synthesis and DNA synthesis inhibition. One extract induced a higher frequency of sister chromatid exchange in lymphocytes from normal persons than in those from patients with oesophageal cancer, and the spontaneous break-points in patients were related to fragile sites and neoplasia-associated break-points. The toxins alternariol and its monomethyl ether, produced by A. alternata, were examined in the reverse mutation assay and for unscheduled DNA synthesis. The results were similar to those obtained with extracts of the different strains. Alternariol had a four to eight times greater effect than its monomethyl ether. Of 24 strains of P. cyclopium isolated from cereals in Linxian, four were cultured with rice and 19 in Raulin-Thom medium. Cultures in Raulin-Thorn medium, solution and hyphae were then extracted. The strains cultured with rice induced sister chromatid exchange, unscheduled DNA synthesis and DNA synthesis inhibition. The solution extracts of 14 strains were positive in the rec assay, and five strains were positive in the reverse mutation test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
18559181	The effect of Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) infestation duration and density on the host preference and performance of Anagrus nilaparvatae Pang et Wang, an egg parasitoid of rice planthoppers, was determined. The results showed that the parasitoid preferred N. lugens eggs on the plants infested with 10 gravid N. lugens females for 1 d to those plants infested with 10 gravid females for 2 or 3 d. It was also found to prefer N. lugens eggs on plants infested with 10 or 20 adult females after 24 h of infestation to those plants infested with 5 or 80 females. The parasitoid's offsprings had lower survival rates, fecundities, female ratios, indexes of capacity for population increase, and longer developmental durations on plants when they were infested with high N. lugens density (80 adult females per plant). However, the performance of the parasitoid on plants infested with low N. lugens density (5 female adults per plant) was similar to those on plants with intermediate N. lugens density (10 or 20 adult females per plant). Low preference of the parasitoid for N. lugens eggs on plants with heavy or light infestation levels may be correlated with low host suitability and detectability, respectively. The result implies an important role of herbivore-induced rice volatiles in the host preference of the parasitoid A. nilaparvatae, by which the parasitoid perceives the host and its suitability.
18559187	A 3-yr field experiment was conducted to evaluate the tolerance and compensatory response of rice (Oryza sativa L.) to injury caused by sugarcane borer, Diatraea saccharalis (F.), as affected by cultivar (Cocodrie, Francis, and Jefferson), stage of crop growth during which the injury occurred (third tiller stage, panicle differentiation stage, and heading stage), and sugarcane borer density. The proportion of rice tillers with sugarcane borer injury (leaf and leaf sheath injury and/or stem injury) was lower when injury occurred at the third tiller stage (0.05) than at panicle differentiation (0.19) and heading (0.18). When injury occurred at the two latter stages, both the proportion of tillers with injury and the proportion of tillers with stem injury were negatively correlated with rainfall. Rainfall resulted in dislodgement and mortality of sugarcane borer eggs and larvae before the larvae entered the stems. Rice plant density in this study (111.1 plants/m2) was higher than recorded for previous research on rice compensation using potted rice or conducted in low-density hill production systems (26.7-51.3 plants/m2). Two mechanisms of within-plant tolerance/compensation were observed. Stem injured plants produced approximately 0.69 more tillers than uninjured plants, whereas tillers with leaf and leaf sheath injury produced larger panicles, up to 39.5 and 21.0% heavier than uninjured tillers, when injury occurred at third tiller stage and at panicle differentiation, respectively. Rice yield was not reduced with up to 23% injured tiller and up to 10% injured stems at the third tiller stage, 42% injured tillers and 17% injured stems at panicle differentiation, and 28% injured tillers and 14% injured stems at heading. Significant between-plant compensation was not detected, suggesting competition between adjacent plants is not significantly reduced by injury. Our results suggest that rice can tolerate and/or compensate for a level of stem borer injury previously considered to be economically damaging.
18559190	The relative toxicity of Bt rice pollen to domestic silkworm, Bombyx mori Linnaeus (Lepidoptera: Bombycidae), was assessed by a leaf-dip bioassay under laboratory conditions. Silkworm first instars were sensitive to pollen from Bt rice lines, B1 and KMD1, but were not sensitive to pollen from Bt rice line TT9-3. First instars were 1.34-2.12 times more sensitive to B1 pollen than older instars. Bioassays of subacute toxicity under a worst-case scenario suggested that continuous exposure to a sublethal dose of B1 pollen or equivalent doses of non-Bt rice pollen affected silkworm survival and development. Young larvae were more affected by continuous exposure to Bt pollen than older larvae but less affected by non-Bt pollen. Ultrastructural observations showed that Cry proteins associated with Bt pollen were released into the larval lumen and resulted in pathological midgut changes and negative impacts on silkworm survival and development. However, considering that the sublethal dose of Bt pollen (LC15) used in this study is equivalent to the highest detected density of rice pollen on mulberry leaf under field conditions and that the likelihood of such high density of rice pollen occurring in the fields is extremely low, we suggest that the risk of Bt rice pollen on silkworm rearing is negligible.
18560761	Silicon exerts beneficial effects on plant growth and production by alleviating both biotic and abiotic stresses including diseases, pests, lodging, drought, and nutrient imbalance. Recently, two genes (Lsi1 and Lsi2) encoding Si transporters have been identified from rice. Lsi1 (low silicon 1) belongs to a Nod26-like major intrinsic protein subfamily in aquaporin, while Lsi2 encodes a putative anion transporter. Lsi1 is localized on the distal side of both exodermis and endodermis in rice roots, while Lsi2 is localized on the proximal side of the same cells. Lsi1 shows influx transport activity for Si, while Lsi2 shows efflux transport activity. Therefore, Lsi1 is responsible for transport of Si from the external solution to the root cells, whereas Lsi2 is an efflux transporter responsible for the transport of Si from the root cells to the apoplast. Coupling of Lsi1 with Lsi2 is required for efficient uptake of Si in rice.
18561151	Fipronil, a phenylpyrazole insecticide, and its oxidative sulfone metabolite are two potential pollutants from treated rice and cotton production. A consequence of these pollutants occurring in surface runoff is degradation of downstream aquatic ecosystems. Utilization of primary intercept drainage ditches as management practices to reduce fipronil concentrations and loads has not been examined. This study used ditch mesocosms planted with monospecific stands of common emergent wetland vegetation to determine if certain plant species were more proficient in fipronil mitigation. Three replicates of four plant species were compared against a non-vegetated control to determine differences in water column outflow concentrations (microg L(-1)) and loads (microg). There were no significant differences between vegetated and control treatments in outflow concentrations (F = 0.35, P = 0.836) and loads (F = 0.35, P = 0.836). The range of fipronil reduction was 28-45% for both concentration and load. Unlike fipronil, fipronil sulfone concentrations and load increased by 96-328%. The increase in fipronil sulfone was hypothesized as a direct consequence of oxidation of fipronil within each mesocosm. The type of ditch vegetation had no effect on fipronil reduction. Future research needs to examine initial concentrations and hydraulic retention times to examine potential changes in reduction capacities.
18562767	The size and shape of the plant leaf is an important agronomic trait. To understand the molecular mechanism governing plant leaf shape, we characterized a classic rice (Oryza sativa) dwarf mutant named narrow leaf1 (nal1), which exhibits a characteristic phenotype of narrow leaves. In accordance with reduced leaf blade width, leaves of nal1 contain a decreased number of longitudinal veins. Anatomical investigations revealed that the culms of nal1 also show a defective vascular system, in which the number and distribution pattern of vascular bundles are altered. Map-based cloning and genetic complementation analyses demonstrated that Nal1 encodes a plant-specific protein with unknown biochemical function. We provide evidence showing that Nal1 is richly expressed in vascular tissues and that mutation of this gene leads to significantly reduced polar auxin transport capacity. These results indicate that Nal1 affects polar auxin transport as well as the vascular patterns of rice plants and plays an important role in the control of lateral leaf growth.
1856338	Two patients became infested with Gnathostoma nipponicum after eating raw loach-fish they had caught in a rice field in central Japan. A fragment of Gnathostoma was found in a biopsy from one of them. The sera of both patients reacted with Gnathostoma antigen using indirect immunofluorescence. Scanning electron microscopy was performed on blocks of the paraffin-embedded parasite sample and the viscera of a fish from the same rice field. The risk of eating raw freshwater fish is discussed.
18563445	Most disease resistance genes in plants encode NBS-LRR proteins. However, in woody species, little is known about the evolutionary history of these genes. Here, we identified 459 and 330 respective NBS-LRRs in grapevine and poplar genomes. We subsequently investigated protein motif composition, phylogenetic relationships and physical locations. We found significant excesses of recent duplications in perennial species, compared with those of annuals, represented by rice and Arabidopsis. Consequently, we observed higher nucleotide identity among paralogs and a higher percentage of NBS-encoding genes positioned in numerous clusters in the grapevine and poplar. These results suggested that recent tandem duplication played a major role in NBS-encoding gene expansion in perennial species. These duplication events, together with a higher probability of recombination revealed in this study, could compensate for the longer generation time in woody perennial species e.g. duplication and recombination could serve to generate novel resistance specificities. In addition, we observed extensive species-specific expansion in TIR-NBS-encoding genes. Non-TIR-NBS-encoding genes were poly- or paraphyletic, i.e. genes from three or more plant species were nested in different clades, suggesting different evolutionary patterns between these two gene types.
18563580	Most high-affinity phosphate transporter genes (OsPTs) in rice were highly induced in roots when phosphate was depleted. OsPT1, however, was highly expressed in primary roots and leaves regardless of external phosphate concentrations. This finding was confirmed histochemically using transgenic rice plants that express the GUS reporter gene under the control of the OsPT1 promoter, which exhibited high GUS activity even in the phosphate sufficient condition. Furthermore, transgenic rice plants overexpressing the OsPT1 gene accumulated almost twice as much phosphate in the shoots as did wild-type plants. As a result, transgenic plants had more tillers than did wild-type plants, which is a typical physiological indicator for phosphate status in rice.
18563612	Type II collagen (CII) in joint cartilage is known to be a major auto-antigen in human rheumatoid arthritis. Several animal model- and clinical-studies on tolerance-based immunotherapy for the arthritis have been conducted by administrating synthetic immunodominant peptides through an oral route. In the present study, to produce a tolerogenic peptide with therapeutic potential in transgenic rice plants, a gene construct producing glutelin fusion protein with tandem four repeats of a CII(250-270) peptide (residues 250-270) (GluA-4XCII(250-270)) containing a human T-cell epitope was introduced with a selection marker, hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hygromycin-resistance gene) (hph), by co-transformation. Several transgenic plants with high and stable expression of gluA-4XCII (250-270), but no hph, were selected based on both DNA and protein analyses. The GluA-4XCII(250-270) fusion proteins were detected as both precursor and processed forms mainly in a glutelin fraction of rice endosperm protein extracts and in protein-body rich fractions prepared by density gradient ultracentrifugation. The amount of accumulated CII(250-270) peptide was immunochemically estimated to be about 1 microg per seed. Feeding DBA/1 mice the transgenic rice seeds (25 microg of the peptide per mouse a day) for 2 weeks showed tendencies lowering and delaying serum specific-IgG2a response against subsequent and repeated intraperitoneal-injection of type II collagen. Taken these together, the CII-immunodominant peptide could effectively be produced and accumulated as a glutelin-fusion protein in the transgenic rice seeds, which might be useful as pharmaceutical materials and functional food for prevention and therapy for anti-CII autoimmune diseases like human rheumatoid arthritis.
18564381	Based on the nucleotide sequence of QDE-3 in Neurospora crassa, which is involved in RNA silencing, rice (Oryza sativa) mutant lines disrupted by the insertion of the rice retrotransposon Tos17 were selected. Homozygous individuals from the M(1) and M(2) generations were screened and used for further analyses. The expression of the gene was not detected in leaves or calli of the mutant lines, in contrast to the wild type (WT). Induction of RNA silencing by particle bombardment was performed to investigate any effects of the OsRecQ1 gene on RNA silencing with silencing inducers of the GFP (green fluorescence protein)/GUS (beta-glucuronidase) gene in the mutant lines. The results showed that OsRecQ1 is required for RNA silencing induced by particle bombardment for inverted-repeat DNA, but not for double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). The levels of transcripts from inverted-repeat DNA were much lower in the mutant lines than those in the WT. Furthermore, no effects were observed in the accumulation of endogenous microRNAs (miR171 and miR156) and the production of the short interspersed nuclear element retroelement by small interfering RNA. On the basis of these results, we propose that OsRecQ1 may participate in the process that allows inverted repeat DNA to be transcribed into dsRNA, which can trigger RNA silencing.
18564421	To elucidate the interaction of dynamics among modules that constitute biological systems, comprehensive datasets obtained from "omics" technologies have been used. In recent plant metabolomics approaches, the reconstruction of metabolic correlation networks has been attempted using statistical techniques. However, the results were unsatisfactory and effective data-mining techniques that apply appropriate comprehensive datasets are needed. Using capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry (CE-MS) and capillary electrophoresis diode-array detection (CE-DAD), we analyzed the dynamic changes in the level of 56 basic metabolites in plant foliage (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) at hourly intervals over a 24-hr period. Unsupervised clustering of comprehensive metabolic profiles using Kohonen's self-organizing map (SOM) allowed classification of the biochemical pathways activated by the light and dark cycle. The carbon and nitrogen (C/N) metabolism in both periods was also visualized as a phenotypic linkage map that connects network modules on the basis of traditional metabolic pathways rather than pairwise correlations among metabolites. The regulatory networks of C/N assimilation/dissimilation at each time point were consistent with previous works on plant metabolism. In response to environmental stress, glutathione and spermidine fluctuated synchronously with their regulatory targets. Adenine nucleosides and nicotinamide coenzymes were regulated by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. We also demonstrated that SOM analysis was applicable to the estimation of unidentifiable metabolites in metabolome analysis. Hierarchical clustering of a correlation coefficient matrix could help identify the bottleneck enzymes that regulate metabolic networks. Our results showed that our SOM analysis with appropriate metabolic time-courses effectively revealed the synchronous dynamics among metabolic modules and elucidated the underlying biochemical functions. The application of discrimination of unidentified metabolites and the identification of bottleneck enzymatic steps even to non-targeted comprehensive analysis promise to facilitate an understanding of large-scale interactions among components in biological systems.
18564427	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) and X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) are bacterial pathogens of the worldwide staple and grass model, rice. Xoo and Xoc are closely related but Xoo invades rice vascular tissue to cause bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice in many parts of the world, and Xoc colonizes the mesophyll parenchyma to cause bacterial leaf streak, a disease of emerging importance. Both pathogens depend on hrp genes for type III secretion to infect their host. We constructed a 50-70 mer oligonucleotide microarray based on available genome data for Xoo and Xoc and compared gene expression in Xoo strains PXO99A and Xoc strain BLS256 grown in the rich medium PSB vs. XOM2, a minimal medium previously reported to induce hrp genes in Xoo strain T7174. Three biological replicates of the microarray experiment to compare global gene expression in representative strains of Xoo and Xoc grown in PSB vs. XOM2 were carried out. The non-specific error rate and the correlation coefficients across biological replicates and among duplicate spots revealed that the microarray data were robust. 247 genes of Xoo and 39 genes of Xoc were differentially expressed in the two media with a false discovery rate of 5% and with a minimum fold-change of 1.75. Semi-quantitative-RT-PCR assays confirmed differential expression of each of 16 genes each for Xoo and Xoc selected for validation. The differentially expressed genes represent 17 functional categories. We describe here the construction and validation of a two-genome microarray for the two pathovars of X. oryzae. Microarray analysis revealed that using representative strains, a greater number of Xoo genes than Xoc genes are differentially expressed in XOM2 relative to PSB, and that these include hrp genes and other genes important in interactions with rice. An exception was the rax genes, which are required for production of the host resistance elicitor AvrXa21, and which were expressed constitutively in both pathovars.
18564716	On August 5, 2005, a private hospital reported a large number of students with gastrointestinal illness from the same school in Bangkok, Thailand. The Bureau of Epidemiology along with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration investigated this outbreak, to determine risk factors, identify the source of infection and possible causative organism, and recommend prevention and control strategies. A case was defined as a person who was studying or working at School A and who developed abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting during the five-day period of August 4 to 8, 2005. A descriptive study was carried out for active case-finding, medical records review, and case interviews. We conducted the retrospective cohort study among third and fourth grade students. Stool samples were collected and tested at the Thai National Institute of Health and at private hospital laboratories. The overall attack rate was 37%. Main symptoms were diarrhea, fever, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, and nausea. The highest attack rate (63%) was among fourth-grade students. Based on food-history data collected from ill and well students, a multiple logistic regression analysis showed that a mixed chicken and rice dish served for lunch on August 4 was associated with illness (OR 3.28, 95% CI 1.46-7.36). Among stools samples from 103 cases, Shigella group D was found in 18 cases, Salmonella group C in 5 cases, and Salmonella group E in 2 cases. This food borne outbreak of gastroenteritis was most likely caused by Shigella spp although the possibility of mixed contamination with Shigella and Salmonella spp cannot be ruled out. Food borne outbreaks such as this can be prevented through simple and effective hygienic measures.
18564913	The risk of food poisoning and growth of spoilage bacteria in Awa-Uirou, a sticky rice cake containing sweet red bean paste, was evaluated. Toxin-producing bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus cereus are the main causes of food poisoning linked to this kind of food. The water activity in this product is in the range suitable for growth of S. aureus, B. cereus, and B. subtilis. The viable count of S. aureus or B. cereus spore cocktail was significantly reduced to 2.3 log colony-forming units (CFU)/g after 70 minutes steaming treatment at 100 degrees C. However, the heat-resistant endospores of B. subtilis germinated during storage at 30 degrees C to cause appreciable syneresis of the starch gel matrix in 4 days. The addition of 0.5% glycine before steaming treatment was found to effectively suppress the growth of B. cereus but was not effective in controlling S. aureus throughout the 7 days incubation period at 30 degrees C. On the other hand, S. aureus and B. cereus could grow > 5.0 log CFU/g in an inoculated sample without glycine within 3 days when stored at 30 degrees C. Moreover, addition of 0.5% glycine before the steaming process did not have any significant effect on color, texture, or taste of sticky rice cake. Therefore, results of this study demonstrated that the addition of 0.5% glycine before the steaming process could inhibit B. cereus and B. subtilis multiplication in the steamed rice confection which in turn may help reduce the risk of food poisoning or quality loss.
18565742	A new carrier matrix for nanoemulsion drug delivery was synthesized from glycine as the raw material, using mesoporous/microporous electron rich carbon-silica composite surface (MAC(800)). MAC(800) was prepared from rice husk in two-stage carbonization. The surface area, pore volume, and pore size distribution of MAC(800) were measured, using nitrogen adsorption isotherms at 77K. The unpaired electron density of MAC(800) was measured in electron spin resonance spectroscopy (ESR), using TEMPOL (4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidine-1-oxyl) as the reference spin probe. Glycine was converted into ketene at the surface of MAC(800), which further underwent radical polymerization to form a low molecular weight ketene polymer (LMKP) of ester structure. The structure and the properties of LMKP were confirmed through (13)C, (1)H and DEPT nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR) and size exclusion chromatography (SEC). The two hydrophilic drugs namely ciprofloxacin hydrochloride (CPH) and gentamicin sulphate (GS) were chosen for the nanoemulsion preparation and characterization. They were characterized for morphology, interaction of drugs with the polymer and their crystallinity, using HR-TEM, DSC and XRD, respectively. The encapsulation efficiency of the LMKP towards the drugs ciprofloxacin hydrochloride and gentamicin sulphate were 26% and 12%, respectively. The dissolution studies of the nanoemulsion were carried out for the pH 6.5, 7.4 and 8.0. The cytocompatibility studies were done for LMKP as well as nanoemulsion using Hep2 epithelial cells.
18566757	Oryzanol present in rice bran is associated with various physiological functions. However, these beneficial ferulate esters are lost to the extent of 87% during conventional refining of crude rice bran oil. In the present investigation, oryzanol enrichment in rice bran oil was attempted using nonporous polymeric membranes under undiluted as well as hexane-diluted conditions with different (crude, refined, and model oil) systems varying widely in their oryzanol content. During membrane processing, oryzanol content in the refined rice bran oil increased from 2,420 to 7,340 mg/kg (approximately threefold enrichment). While processing crude oil and model oil systems, the oryzanol content in the oil improved from 17,600 to 27,300 mg/kg and 20,400 to 30,300 mg/kg, respectively. The enrichment of oryzanol was due to its moderate rejection by the nonporous hydrophobic membrane owing to the hydrophilic nature of the ferulic esters. Hexane dilution improved the oil flux by one order of magnitude but reduced the selectivity. Enriched rice bran oil may find wider applications in the pharmaceutical, therapeutic, and dietary preparations as well as in producing standard cooking oil with guaranteed oryzanol content.
18566795	The rice low phytic acid 1 (lpa1) mutant was originally identified using a forward genetics approach. This mutant exhibits a 45% reduction in rice seed phytic acid with a molar-equivalent increase in inorganic phosphorus; however, it does not appear to differ significantly in productivity from its wild-type progenitor. A second lpa1 mutant was identified from additional screening for high seed inorganic phosphorus phenotypes. Using a positional cloning strategy, we identified a single candidate gene at the rice Lpa1 locus. Sequence analysis of the candidate gene from the lpa1 mutants revealed two independent mutations (a single base pair substitution and a single base pair deletion) that confirmed the identification of this candidate as the rice low phytic acid 1 gene, OsLpa1. The OsLpa1 gene has three splice variants. The location and nature of the two mutations suggests that these lesions only affect the translation of the predicted protein derived from the longest transcript. The proteins encoded by OsLpa1 do not have homology to any of the inositol phosphate metabolism genes recently characterized in plants, although there is homology to 2-phosphoglycerate kinase, an enzyme found in hyperthermophilic methanogens that catalyzes the formation of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate from 2-phosphoglycerate. OsLpa1 represents a novel gene involved in phytic acid metabolism.
18567825	Members of the Class III homeodomain leucine zipper (Class III HD-Zip) gene family are central regulators of crucial aspects of plant development. To better understand the roles of five Class III HD-Zip genes in rice (Oryza sativa) development, we investigated their expression patterns, ectopic expression phenotypes, and auxin responsiveness. Four genes, OSHB1 to OSHB4, were expressed in a localized domain of the shoot apical meristem (SAM), the adaxial cells of leaf primordia, the leaf margins, and the xylem tissue of vascular bundles. In contrast, expression of OSHB5 was observed only in phloem tissue. Plants ectopically expressing microRNA166-resistant versions of the OSHB3 gene exhibited severe defects, including the ectopic production of leaf margins, shoots, and radialized leaves. The treatment of seedlings with auxin quickly induced ectopic OSHB3 expression in the entire region of the SAM, but not in other tissues. Furthermore, this ectopic expression of OSHB3 was correlated with leaf initiation defects. Our findings suggest that rice Class III HD-Zip genes have conserved functions with their homologs in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), but have also acquired specific developmental roles in grasses or monocots. In addition, some Class III HD-Zip genes may regulate the leaf initiation process in the SAM in an auxin-dependent manner.
18569003	A survey of the levels of some essential and non-essential trace elements in different types of rice available on the Swedish retail market was carried out in 2001-03. The types of rice included long and short grain, brown, white, and parboiled white. The mean levels found were: chromium (Cr) = 0.008 mg kg(-1), copper (Cu) = 1.9 mg kg(-1), iron (Fe) = 4.7 mg kg(-1), manganese (Mn) = 16 mg kg(-1), platinum (Pt) < 0.0003 mg kg(-1), rubidium (Rb) = 3.3 mg kg(-1), selenium (Se) =0.1 mg kg(-1); and zinc (Zn) = 15 mg kg(-1). Inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was used for the determination of Pt, Rb, and Se, after acid digestion. All other elements were determined using atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS) after dry ashing. Intake calculations were performed and it was concluded that rice may contribute considerably to the daily requirements of the essential elements Cu, Fe, Mn, Se, and Zn if rice consumption is high. The levels of some elements, e.g. Fe and Mn, were significantly higher in brown compared with white rice.
18570276	Despite the high levels of polyphenolic phytochemicals in grain sorghum and its position as a major food staple, there has been a lack of research on its effects on both animal and human health and disease prevention. These phenolic compounds, mainly located in the bran fraction, result in the plant having substantial antioxidant properties. This study examined the effect of ethanol extracts of several varieties of sorghum (S. bicolor) bran on albumin glycation, a non-enzymatic process thought to be important in the pathogenesis of many diabetic complications. Sorghum brans with a high phenolic content and high antioxidant properties inhibited protein glycation, whereas sorghum brans that are low in these properties did not inhibit this process. Ethanol extracts of wheat, rice or oat bran did not inhibit protein glycation. Although one high phenolic sorghum bran variety (sumac) inhibited protein glycation by approximately 60%, it produced only a 20% decrease in methylglyoxal mediated albumin glycation. These results suggest that certain varieties of sorghum bran may affect critical biological processes that are important in diabetes and insulin resistance. These results distinguish select sorghum brans from the common food brans and suggest a nutraceutical rationale for its human consumption.
18571428	The paper studies, with the help of HPLC-DAD-MS/MS technique, the hydrolytic and photoinduced degradation processes that take place in aqueous solutions of tribenuron methyl, both when preserved in the dark and when undergoing solar box irradiation under conditions that simulate sun light. The results indicate that the degradation products formed by hydrolysis alone and by photoirradiation are the same, but kinetics of the hydrolysis reaction is much slower. The degradation products are identified as 2-methoxy-4-methylamino-6-methyl-1,3,5-triazine (P1), methyl 2-aminosulfonylbenzoate (P2), and saccharin (P3) and quantified. Ecotoxicological biotests performed on 0.1 microg L(-1) photoirradiated solutions of the herbicide give a border line toxicity situation comparable to that of the precursor and indicate that the herbicide is characterized by low persistence in the environment, as required. Its degradation, however, does not lead to mineralization but to the formation of products of comparable toxicity. To evaluate the matrix effects, the photodegradation of the herbicide is also studied in the presence of rice paddy waters: the process is slower than in ultrapure water but leads to the same products. Experiments performed for comparison by irradiating ultrapure water solutions with UV lamp (254 nm) show that the degradation process is not only faster with respect to sunlight, but gives a different pathway, without in anyway leading to mineralization.
18571878	Serine carboxypeptidase-like proteins (SCPLs) comprise a large family of protein hydrolyzing enzymes that play roles in multiple cellular processes. During the course of study aimed at elucidating the molecular basis of induced immunity in rice, a gene, OsBISCPL1, encoding a putative SCPL, was isolated and identified. OsBISCPL1 contains a conserved peptidase S10 domain, serine active site and a signal peptide at N-terminus. OsBISCPL1 is expressed ubiquitously in rice, including roots, stems, leaves and spikes. Expression of OsBISCPL1 in leaves was significantly up-regulated after treatments with benzothiadiazole, salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and 1-amino cyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, and also up-regulated in incompatible interactions between rice and the blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants with constitutive expression of OsBISCPL1 were generated and disease resistance assays indicated that the OsBISCPL1-overexpressing plants showed an enhanced disease resistance against Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato and Alternaria brassicicola. Expression levels of defense-related genes, e.g. PR1, PR2, PR5 and PDF1.2, were constitutively up-regulated in transgenic plants as compared with those in wild-type plants. Furthermore, the OsBISCPL1-overexpressing plants also showed an increased tolerance to oxidative stress and up-regulated expression of oxidative stress-related genes. The results suggest that the OsBISCPL1 may be involved in regulation of defense responses against pathogen infection and oxidative stress.
18571972	Ovules have an important role during the life cycle of the plant, and they provide an excellent model for studying organogenesis in plants. As such, the molecular control of ovule development has been studied for many years. Recent studies in Arabidopsis have revealed important new data concerning ovule primordia formation, ovule identity determination, and patterning. Furthermore, interesting results about ovule development in other species, such as Petunia and rice, have been published recently. In this review, we discuss these recent findings in reference to ovule development in Arabidopsis. We compare available data with those of other species to investigate the evolutionary conservation of the regulatory pathways.
18572522	Emission factors of particulate matter (PM), element carbon (EC), organic carbon (OC), SO2, NO(x), CO, CO2, and ten ions (Na+, NH4+, K+, Mg2+, Ca2+, F-, Cl-, NO2-, NO3-, SO4(2-)) were estimated from the domestic burning of four types of commonly produced crop residues in rural China: rice straw, wheat straw, corn stover, and cotton stalk, which were collected from the representative regions across China. A combustion tower was designed to simulate the cooking conditions under which the peasants burned their crop residues in rural China, to measure the emission factors. Results showed that wheat straw had the highest emission factor for the total PM (8.75 g/kg) among the four crop residues, whereas, corn stover and wheat straw have the highest emission factor for EC (0.95 g/kg) and OC (3.46 g/kg), respectively. Corn stover also presents as having the highest emission factors of NO, NO(x), and CO2, whereas, wheat straw, rice straw, and cotton stalk had the highest emission factors of NO2, SO2, and CO, respectively. The water-soluble ions, K+ and Cl-, had the highest emission factors from all the crops. Wheat straw had a relatively higher emission factor of cation species and F-, Cl-, NO2- than other residues.
18572523	Hexachlorobenzene (HCB), a persistent organic pollutant (POP), has been found in paddy soils. To improve the understanding of HCB contamination in paddy soils, a laboratory simulative study was carried out to investigate the behavior of HCB in a paddy soil and rice plants. This study was divided into three experiments. First, an experiment aimed to examine the evaporation of HCB in paddy soil. In the second experiment, rice was planted in 10 mg/kg HCB contaminated soil and after pot culture at 3, 6, 9, and 27 weeks (at maturity), both soil and plant samplings were scheduled to be sampled. The soil samples comprised rhizosphere soil, nonrhizosphere soil, and unplanted contaminated soil, whereas plant samples included shoots, roots, and rice grains (dehusked). Lastly, in this part, HCB in xylem saps was designed to be examined. The results showed that (1) the HCB translocation from paddy soil to rice by vaporization; (2) the HCB concentration in rice grains was surprisingly high; (3) the observed HCB decrease in rice rhizosphere offers a potential means for in situ HCB degradation; (4) HCB might not be transported along transpiration in rice.
18573161	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of aging and ovariectomy on various physiological parameters related to inflammation and oxidative stress in livers obtained from old female rats, and the influence of chronic administration of melatonin on these animals. Twenty-four female Wistar rats of 22 months of age were used. Animals were divided into four experimental groups: two intact groups that were untreated or given melatonin (1 mg/kg/day), and two ovariectomized groups that also untreated and treated with melatonin (1 mg/kg/day). After 10 wk of treatment, rats were sacrificed by decapitation, and livers were collected and homogenized. A group of 2-month-old female rats was used as young controls. Protein expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-1beta were determined by Western blot analysis. The levels of nitric oxide metabolites (NO(x)), lipid hydroperoxide (LPO), TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-10 were determined. Levels of LPO in the liver homogenates as well as iNOS protein expression and NO(x) levels were increased in old rats as compared with young animals; this effect was more evident in ovariectomized animals. Pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 were significantly increased and anti-inflammatory IL-10 decreased during aging and after ovariectomy. Aging also significantly increased the expression of HO-1 protein, and ovariectomized rats showed an additional increase. Administration of melatonin, both to intact and to the ovariectomized animals significantly reduced NO(x), LPO levels and pro-inflammatory cytokines in the liver as compared with untreated rats. Significant rice in IL-10 and reductions in the iNOS, HO-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL-1beta protein expression were also found in rats treated with melatonin. Oxidative stress and inflammation induced during aging in the liver are more marked in castrated than in intact females. Administration of melatonin reduces both these situations.
18573188	F-box proteins play important roles in plant growth/development and responses to environmental stimuli through targeting substrates into degradation machinery. A rice defense-related F-box protein gene, OsDRF1, was cloned and identified during a course of study aimed at elucidating the molecular basis of induced immunity in rice. OsDRF1 encodes a protein of 328 amino acids, containing a highly conserved F-box domain. Expression of OsDRF1 was induced upon treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH), a chemical inducer of defense responses in rice. Moreover, in BTH-treated rice seedlings, expression of OsDRF1 was further induced by infection with Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast fungus, compared with those in water-treated seedlings. OsDRF1 was also upregulated in rice seedlings after treatment with ABA. Overexpression of OsDRF1 in transgenic tobacco resulted in enhanced disease resistance against tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci and strengthened expression of defense-related genes after salicylic acid treatment or ToMV infection. Root elongation of the OsDRF1-overexpressing transgenic seedlings was significantly inhibited by ABA, indicating that overexpression of OsDRF1 resulted in increased ABA sensitivity. The results suggest that OsDRF1 plays a role in disease resistance via upregulating defense-related gene expression and that OsDRF1 may also be involved in the response to ABA.
18573603	This paper reports the feasibility of using pre-consumer processing agricultural waste to remove Cr(VI) from synthetic wastewater under different experimental conditions. For this, rice husk, has been used after pre-treatments (boiling and formaldehyde treatment). Effect of various process parameters, namely, pH, adsorbent dose, initial chromium concentration and contact time has been studied in batch systems. The removal of chromium was dependent on the physico-chemical characteristics of the adsorbent, adsorbate concentration and other studied process parameters. Maximum metal removal was observed at pH 2.0. The efficiencies of boiled and formaldehyde treated rice husk for Cr(VI) removal were 71.0% and 76.5% respectively for dilute solutions at 20gl(-1) adsorbent dose. The experimental data were analyzed using Freundlich, Langmuir and Dubinin-Radushkevich (D-R) isotherm models. It was found that Freundlich and D-R models fitted well. The results revealed that the hexavalent chromium is considerably adsorbed on rice husk and it could be an economical method for the removal of hexavalent chromium from aqueous systems. FTIR and SEM were recorded, before and after adsorption, to explore number and position of the functional groups available for Cr(VI) binding on to studied adsorbents and changes in adsorbent surface morphology.
18573842	Organelles, such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, are derived from endosymbionts. Gene transfer events from organelles to the nucleus have occurred over evolutionary time. In the case that a transferred gene in the nucleus needs to go back to the original organelle, it must obtain targeting information for sorting its protein to that organelle. Here, we reveal that the genes for the ribosomal proteins L2 and S4 in the Arabidopsis thaliana mitochondrial (mt) genome contain information for protein targeting into the mitochondria. Similarly, the genes for the ribosomal proteins L2 and S19 in the Oryza sativa mt genome contain information for protein targeting into mitochondria. These results suggest that targeting information already existed in each gene in the plant mt genome before the transfer event to the nucleus occurred. We provide new insights into the timing of the appearance of targeting signals in evolution.
18574953	DMPP (3,4-dimethylpyrazole phosphate) has been used to reduce nitrogen (N) loss from leaching or denitrification and to improve N supply in agricultural land. However, its impact on soil nitrifying organisms and enzyme activities involved in N cycling is largely unknown. Therefore, an on-farm experiment, for two years, has been conducted, to elucidate the effects of DMPP on mineral N (NH4(+)-N and NO3(-)-N) leaching, nitrifying organisms, and denitrifying enzymes in a rice-oilseed rape cropping system. Three treatments including urea alone (UA), urea + 1% DMPP (DP), and no fertilizer (CK), have been carried out. The results showed that DP enhanced the mean NH4(+)-N concentrations by 19.1%--24.3%, but reduced the mean NO3(-)-N concentrations by 44.9%--56.6% in the leachate, under a two-year rice-rape rotation, compared to the UA treatment. The population of ammonia oxidizing bacteria, the activity of nitrate reductase, and nitrite reductase in the DP treatment decreased about 24.5%--30.9%, 14.9%--43.5%, and 14.7%--31.6%, respectively, as compared to the UA treatment. However, nitrite oxidizing bacteria and hydroxylamine reductase remained almost unaffected by DMPP. It is proposed that DMPP has the potential to either reduce NO3(-)-N leaching by inhibiting ammonia oxidization or N losses from denitrification, which is in favor of the N conversations in the rice-oilseed rape cropping system.
18575104	Fulvic acids extracted from a typical rice-production region near Taihu Lake of China were fractionated into three fractions including F4.8, F7.0 and F11.0 (eluted by pH 4.8 buffer, pH 7.0 buffer and pH 11.0 buffer, respectively). Sorption of fulvic acid (FA) fractions onto kaolinite was studied by batch adsorption experiments, and characterizations of kaolinite before and after adsorption were investigated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Adsorption isotherms of kaolinite for three FA fractions fit well with the Langmuir adsorption model. The adsorption density of the three fractions was positively correlated with the ratio of the amount of the alkyl carbon to that of carboxyl and carbonyl carbon in FA fractions and followed an order of F11.0 > F7.0 > F4.8. Hydrophobic interaction was one of the control mechanisms for the sorption of FA fraction onto kaolinite. SEM images confirmed that compared to blank kaolinite samples, kaolinite samples coated by a FA fraction displayed an opener and more dispersed conformation resulting from the disruption of the floc structure in complex. Dispersion of kaolinite after adsorption was due to the repulsion between negatively charged FA-coated particles, which is closely related to the amount of FA fractions absorbed on kaolinite.
18575130	Heavy metals in variable charge soil are highly bioavailable and easy to transfer into plants. Since it is impossible to completely eliminate rice planting on contaminated soils, some remediation and mitigation techniques are necessary to reduce metal bioavailability and uptake by rice. This pot experiment investigated the effects of seven amendments on the growth of rice and uptake of heavy metals from a paddy soil that was contaminated by copper and cadmium. The best results were from the application of limestone that increased grain yield by 12.5-16.5 fold, and decreased Cu and Cd concentrations in grain by 23.0%-50.4%. Application of calcium magnesium phosphate, calcium silicate, pig manure, and peat also increased the grain yield by 0.3-15.3 fold, and effectively decreased the Cu and Cd concentrations in grain. Cd concentration in grain was slightly reduced in the treatments of Chinese milk vetch and zinc sulfate. Concentrations of Cu and Cd in grain and straw were dependent on the available Cu and Cd in the soils, and soil available Cu and Cd were significantly affected by the soil pH.
18575817	In this study, the status of boron intake was evaluated and its relation with bone mineral density was examined among free-living female subjects in Korea. Boron intake was estimated through the use of the database of boron content in frequently consumed foods by Korean people as well as measuring bone mineral density, taking anthropometric measurements, and surveying dietary intake of 134 adult females in order to relatively evaluate the intake of boron as a nutrient to supplement the low level of calcium intake and to verify its relationship with bone mineral density. Average age, height, and weight of the subjects were respectively 40.84 years, 157.62 cm and 59.70 kg. Also, average bone mineral density of lumbar spine L1-L4 and average bone mineral density of the femoral neck were 0.92 g/cm(2) and 0.80 g/cm(2), respectively. Their average intakes of energy and boron per day were 6,538.53 kJ and 926.94 microg. Intake of boron through vegetables, fruits, and cereals accounted for 61.72% of the overall boron intake. The food item that contributed most to their daily boron intake was rice. Also, 65.41% of overall boron intake was from 30 varieties of other food items, such as soybean paste, soybeans, red beans, watermelons, oriental melons, pears, Chinese cabbage Kimchi, soybean sprouts and soybean milk, etc. Boron intake did not show significant relation to bone mineral density in lumbar vertebra and femoral region. In summary, the average daily intake of boron was 926.94 microg and did not display significant relation to bone mineral density in 134 free-living female subjects. The continuous evaluation of boron consumption by more diverse targets will need to be conducted in the future.
18575818	Using a general linear mixed model, we conducted a 10-year follow-up investigation of 29 persons requiring observation in the cadmium (Cd)-polluted Kakehashi River basin to determine serial changes in biological parameters after removal of Cd-polluted soil present in rice paddies. In particular, we investigated changes in urinary Cd, urinary total protein, biological acid-base balance based on arterial blood pH, carbon dioxide tension (Pa(CO2)), base excess (BE), serum chloride ion (SCl(-)), and renal glomerular function based on serum creatinine (SCr) and creatinine clearance (C(Cr)). In both sexes, urinary Cd concentrations decreased and total protein concentrations increased with increasing number of years elapsed, with the partial regression coefficients statistically significant in the women. Partial regression coefficients showed positive values for SCl(-), with statistical significance in both sexes. The value for Pa(CO2) was significantly negative in men. Given the serial changes in arterial blood pH, Pa(CO2), BE, SCl(-), it is suggested that the biological acid-base balance will progress to metabolic acidosis with hyperchloremia. Moreover, glomerular dysfunction as indicated by an increase in SCr and a decrease in C(Cr) will continue to progress even after soil replacement. Interventions such as soil replacement appear to be too late to prevent progressive renal failure in Cd-exposed populations.
18576218	The fate of herbicides trifluralin, pendimethalin, alachlor and metolachlor in paddy field soils amended with plant materials was investigated. The plant materials were purple sesbania, vegetable soybean and rice straw. The investigation was performed at two temperatures (25 and 40 degrees C) and two soil water moistures (60 and 90% water-holding capacity). The results showed linear and Freudlich equations described the adsorption of amide compound to soil. Adsorption coefficient (K(d)) fit to linear equation were in general greater in plant material-amended soils than in non-amended soil, especially in soil amending with rice straw. Increasing temperature and soil water moisture content shortened the half-lives of compounds in various treated soils. The movement of compounds in the soil columns showed the maximum distribution of aniline type compound, trifluralin and pendimethalin, appeared at the upper top of 0 to 5 and 0 to 10 cm of soil column, respectively, and of anilide type, alachlor and metolachlor, were distributed at 0 to 25 cm of the soil column. The mobility of chemicals in the different treated soils was simulated by the behavior assessment model (BAM). There was no significant difference among different plant material incubated soils on dissipation and mobility of compounds in soils.
18576219	The aim of to evaluate efficiency of this study was extraction pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) for the analysis of four pesticides, fthalide, etofenprox, fenitrothion, and isoprothiolane, in unpolished rice by comparing with homogenization as a reference technique. The concentrations of four selected pesticides obtained by PLE with acetonitrile at 130 degrees C for 10 min x 2 cycles were comparable to those by homogenization with water-soaking. The repeatability of the analysis, represented as relative standard deviations (RSDs), were 1.4-3.6% (n = 3) for PLE at 130 degrees C and 1.2-3.8% (n = 3) for homogenization with water-soaking. Recovery yields of surrogates were 75-88% and 87-109% for PLE at 130 degrees C and homogenization with water-soaking, respectively, and these were satisfactory according to the method of positive list. This study suggested that PLE can be applied for the analysis of selected four pesticides in unpolished rice as well as homogenization with water-soaking.
18576371	Pretreatment of lignocellulosic materials such as newspaper, rice straw, pulp waste, and municipal solid waste with hydrogen peroxide in the presence of manganese compounds greatly enhances their susceptibility to enzymatic saccharification. This pretreatment can be achieved using rather mild conditions with only a minimal decrease in the recovery and little change in composition. Manganese salts in this hydrogen peroxide pretreatment works effectively in particular when the concentration of hydrogen peroxide is relatively low. The susceptibility of hydrogen-peroxide-pretreated substrate to enzymatic saccharification increases with increasing the molar ratio of manganes to hydrogen peroxide up to 1 : 100.
18576671	Diphenylarsinic acid, phenylarsonic acid, methylphenylarsinic acid (MPAA), dimethylphenylarsine oxide (DMPAO), and methyldiphenylarsine oxide (MDPAO) in soil and rice were extracted, separated by reversed-phase chromatography, and quantified by ICPMS with a membrane desolvating system. For the extraction of arsenicals from rice grain and straw, 68% HNO3 provided better extraction efficiency than water, 50% methanol, or 2.0 mol L(-1) trifluoroacetic acid. For the extraction from soil, 68% HNO3 provided better extraction efficiency than H2O, 1 mol L(-1) H3PO4, or 1 mol L(-1) NaOH. The contaminated soil contained all five aromatic arsenicals along with inorganic arsenicals as main species (5.86 +/- 0.19 microg of As kg(-1): 60.8 +/- 2.0% of total extracted As). After pot experiments, rice straw contained mainly DMPAO (7.71 +/- 0.48 microg of As kg(-1): 60.5 +/- 3.7%), MDPAO (0.91 +/- 0.07 microg of As kg(-1): 7.2 +/- 0.5%), and inorganic As (2.85 +/- 0.20 microg of As kg(-1): 22.3 +/- 1.6%). On the other hand, rice grain contained mainly MPAA (1.17 +/- 0.04 microg of As kg(-1): 86.7 +/- 2.7%). The root uptake of each species from the soil and transport from straw to grains were significantly related to the calculated log K(ow) values.
18578466	The thermal decomposition of Ga(CH3)3 has been studied both experimentally in shock-heated gases and theoretically within an ab-initio framework. Experiments for pressures ranging from 0.3 to 4 bar were performed in a shock tube equipped with atomic resonance absorption spectroscopy (ARAS) for Ga atoms at 403.3 nm. Time-resolved measurements of Ga atom concentrations were conducted behind incident waves as well as behind reflected shock waves at temperatures between 1210 and 1630 K. The temporal variation in Ga-atom concentration was described by a reaction mechanism involving the successive abstraction of methyl radicals from Ga(CH3)3 (R1), Ga(CH3)2 (R2), and GaCH3 (R3), respectively, where the last reaction is the rate-limiting step leading to Ga-atom formation. The rate constant of this reaction (R3) was deduced from a simulation of the measured Ga-atom concentration profiles using thermochemical data from ab-initio calculations for the reactions R1 and R2 as input. The Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) method including variational transition state theory was applied for reaction R3 assuming a loose transition state. Structural parameters and vibrational frequencies of the reactant and transition state required for the RRKM calculations were obtained from first-principles simulations. The energy barrier E3(0) of reaction R3, which is the most sensitive parameter in the calculation, was adjusted until the RRKM rate constant matched the experimental one and was found to be E(0) = 288 kJ/mol. This value is in a good agreement with the corresponding ab-initio value of 266 kJ/mol. The rate constant of reaction R3 was found to be k 3/(cm(3) mol(-1)s(-1)) = 2.34 x 10(11) exp[-23330(K/ T)].
18579410	A DNA fragment encoding the MOMP gene of Chlamydophila psittaci was fused to the heat-labile toxin B subunit gene (LTB-MOMP) and transferred into rice callus by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. The LTB-MOMP fusion gene was detected in genomic DNA from transformed rice leaves by Southern blot and RT-PCR amplification. Synthesis and assembly of the LTB-MOMP fusion protein into pentamers was detected in transformed leaf extracts by immunoblot analysis. Binding of the pentamers to intestinal epithelial cell membrane glycolipid receptors was quantified by GM1-ganglioside enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (GM1-ELISA). The ELISA results indicated that LTB-MOMP fusion protein made up 0.0033-0.0054% of the total soluble leaf protein. Meanwhile, this suggested that the fusion protein retained both its native antigenicity and the ability to form pentamers.
1857947	Gastric emptying of 4 different oral rehydration solutions was investigated by ultrasound in 7 healthy volunteers in a randomized double-blind study. The final gastric emptying times were 32.9 +/- 4.72 minutes for the glycine solution, 55.1 +/- 9.85 minutes for the glucose (WHO) solution. 60.8 +/- 11.58 minutes for the polycose solution and 58.6 +/- 10.12 minutes for the rice-flour solution (p less than 0.05). Gastric emptying times showed considerable person-to-person variability. Based on identical gallbladder volumes before and 60 minutes after ingestion of the rehydration solutions, there was no indication of cholecystokinin stimulation by any of the solutions tested.
18579522	The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are key signal transduction molecules, which respond to various external stimuli. The MAPK phosphatases (MKPs) are known to be negative regulators of MAPKs in eukaryotes. We screened an Arabidopsis cDNA library using horseradish peroxidase-conjugated calmodulin (CaM), and isolated AtMKP1 as a CaM-binding protein. Recently, tobacco NtMKP1 and rice OsMKP1, two orthologs of Arabidopsis AtMKP1, were reported to bind CaM via a single putative CaM binding domain (CaMBD). However, little is known about the regulation of phosphatase activity of plant MKP1s by CaM binding. In this study, we identified two Ca(2+)-dependent CaMBDs within AtMKP1. Specific binding of CaM to two different CaMBDs was verified using a gel mobility shift assay, a competition assay with a Ca(2+)/CaM-dependent enzyme, and a split-ubiquitin assay. The peptides for two CaMBDs, CaMBDI and CaMBDII, bound CaM in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, and the binding affinity of CaMBDII was found to be higher than that of CaMBDI. CaM overlay assays using mutated CaMBDs showed that four amino acids, Trp(453) and Leu(456) in CaMBDI and Trp(678) and Ile(684) in CaMBDII, play a pivotal role in CaM binding. Moreover, the phosphatase activity of AtMKP1 was increased by CaM in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Our results suggest that two important signaling pathways, Ca(2+) signaling and the MAPK signaling cascade, are connected in plants via the regulation of AtMKP1 activity. To our knowledge, this is the first report to show that the biochemical activity of MKP1 in plants is regulated by CaM.
18579782	In plants and animals, gene expression can be down-regulated at the posttranscriptional level by microRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small endogenous RNA. Comparative analysis of miRNA content across species indicates continuous birth and death of these loci in the course of evolution. However, little is known about the microevolutionary dynamics of these genetic elements, especially in plants. In this article we examine polymorphism at two miRNA-encoding loci in Arabidopsis thaliana, miR856 and miR824, which are not found in rice or poplar. We compare their diversity to other miRNA-encoding loci conserved across distant taxa. We find that levels of variation vary significantly across loci and that the two recently derived loci harbor patterns of diversity deviating from neutrality. miRNA miR856 shows a weak signature of a selective sweep whereas miR824 displays signs of balancing selection. A detailed examination of structural variation among alleles found at the miR824-encoding locus suggests nonrandom evolution of a thermoresistant substructure in the precursor. Expression analysis of pre-miR824 and its target, AGL16, indicates that these structural differences likely impact the processing of mature miR824. Our work highlights the relevance of RNA structure in precursor sequence evolution, suggesting that the evolutionary dynamics of miRNA-encoding loci is more complex than suggested by the constraints exerted on the interaction between mature miRNA fragments and their target exon.
18580039	A major occupational hazard for the workers in rice mills is the noise during the operation of various machines. A noise survey was conducted in the workrooms of eight renowned rice mills of the north-eastern region of India established during the period between 1980 and 1985. The rice mills were selected on the basis of the outcome of a walk-through noise survey involving several rice mills of the region. A noise survey map of each rice mill was drawn to identify the predominant noise sources and the causes of high noise in the workrooms of the rice mill. The sound-pressure level (SPL) in the workrooms of the rice mill varied from 78 to 92 dBA. The paddy cleaner, rubber roll sheller, compartment separator, rice cleaner, auxiliary sieve shaker and an electric motor without enclosure were found to be the predominant noise sources in the workrooms of the mill. The causes of high noise in the rice mills may be attributed to the use of a long flat belt drive, crank-and-pitman mechanism, absence of an electric motor enclosure, poor machine maintenance and inadequate acoustic design of the workroom of the rice mill. About 26% of the total labourers were found to be exposed to higher levels of noise than 85 dBA. Subjective response indicated that about 26% of the total labourers felt noise interferes in their work and about 49% labourers were of opinion that noise interferes with their conversation. Noise from machines in the rice mills was found to be the major occupational hazard for the rice mill workers. The predominant noise sources need to be identified and the causes of high noise need to be studied to undertake the appropriate measures to reduce the noise level. To identify the predominant noise sources and their distributions in rice mills, to study the causes of high levels of noise in rice mills and to examine the response of the workers towards noise. A noise survey was conducted in eight renowned rice mills of the north-eastern region of India. The mills were selected based on a walk-through survey conducted for the identification of rice mills with high noise. A noise survey map of each rice mill was collected by following the guidelines of Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety (CCOHS). The distribution of high noise in rice mills was studied and the causes of high noise were identified. The subjective response to noise in rice mills was assessed by conducting personal interview with all the workers of the rice mills using a structured form. The guidelines of CCOHS were followed during the noise survey. A sound level meter (SLM; Model-824) was used to record the noise level at each grid point marked at 1 m x 1 m. SPL in weighting scale "A" and the noise spectrum were recorded at each grid point for 30 s and data were stored in SLM. A noise survey map of equivalent SPL was drawn for each rice mill by drawing contour lines on the sketch of the rice mill between the points of equal SPL. The floor area in the rice mill where SPL exceeded 85 dBA was identified from the noise survey map of each rice mill to determine the causes of high levels of noise. In order to study the variation in SPL in the workroom of the rice mill throughout the shift, equivalent SPL was measured at six locations in each rice mill. The subjective response to noise in rice mills was assessed by conducting personal interview with all the workers of the rice mills using a structured form. Demographic information, nature of work, working hours, rest period, experience of working in mill, degree of noise annoyance, activity interference, and psychological and physiological effects of machine noise on the worker were asked during the interview. Nil. The noise survey in eight select rice mills of the major paddy-growing regions of India revealed that the workrooms of five rice mills had SPL more than 85 dBA in the locations where workers were engaged for most of the time. The predominant noise sources in the rice mills were paddy cleaner, rubber roll sheller, compartment separator, rice cleaner, sieve shaker and an electric motor without enclosure. The causes of high noise in the rice mills may be due to the use of a long flat belt drive, crank-and-pitman mechanism, absence of an electric motor enclosure, poor machine maintenance and inadequate acoustic design of the workroom in the rice mill. In general, a well-maintained rice mill with each machine being run individually using an electric motor produced less noise than that being run using a single electric motor along with flat belt drives. The normal working period in the rice mill was 48 h/week and it was 56 h/week during the peak season of rice milling. About 26% of the total workers were exposed to noise of more than 85 dBA. Subjective response indicated that about 26% of the total workers felt noise interferes in their work and about 49% workers were of opinion that noise interferes with their conversation. The workers in the rice mills are exposed to high noise, which will have detrimental effect on their health. Apart from undertaking appropriate noise control measures, preventive maintenance of machines needs to be given due importance in all the rice mills.
18583359	The DMC1 protein, a meiosis-specific DNA recombinase, catalyzes strand exchange between homologous chromosomes. In rice, two Dmc1 genes, Dmc1A and Dmc1B, have been reported. Although the Oryza sativa DMC1A protein has been partially characterized, however the biochemical properties of the DMC1B protein have not been defined. In the present study, we expressed the Oryza sativa DMC1A and DMC1B proteins in bacteria and purified them. The purified DMC1A and DMC1B proteins formed helical filaments along single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) and double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), and promoted robust strand exchange between ssDNA and dsDNA over five thousand base pairs in the presence of RPA, as a co-factor. The DMC1A and DMC1B proteins also promoted strand exchange in the absence of RPA with long DNA substrates containing several thousand base pairs. In contrast, the human DMC1 protein strictly required RPA to promote strand exchange with these long DNA substrates. The strand-exchange activity of the Oryza sativa DMC1A protein was much higher than that of the DMC1B protein. Consistently, the DNA-binding activity of the DMC1A protein was higher than that of the DMC1B protein. These biochemical differences between the DMC1A and DMC1B proteins may provide important insight into their functional differences during meiosis in rice.
18583882	To investigate potential health risks associated with exposure to metals from an abandoned metal mine, the authors studied people living near an abandoned mine (n=102) and control groups (n=149). Levels of cadmium, copper, arsenic, lead, and zinc were measured in the air, soil, drinking water, and agricultural products. To assess individual exposure, biomarkers of each metal in blood and urine were measured. beta2-microglobulin, alpha1-microglobulin, and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and bone mineral density were measured. Surface soil in the study area showed 2-10 times higher levels of metals compared to that of the control area. Metal concentrations in the groundwater and air did not show any notable differences between groups. Mean concentrations of cadmium and copper in rice and barley from the study area were significantly higher than those of the control area (p<0.05). Geometric means of blood and urine cadmium in the study area were 2.9 microg/L and 1.5 microg/g Cr, respectively, significantly higher than those in the control area (p<0.05). There were no differences in the levels of urinary markers of early kidney dysfunction and bone mineral density. The authors conclude that the residents near the abandoned mine were exposed to higher levels of metals through various routes.
18584031	Rice is one of the most important crops in the world. Although genetic improvement is a key technology for the acceleration of rice breeding, a lack of genome information had restricted efforts in molecular-based breeding until the completion of the high-quality rice genome sequence, which opened new opportunities for research in various areas of genomics. The syntenic relationship of the rice genome to other cereal genomes makes the rice genome invaluable for understanding how cereal genomes function. Producing an accurate genome sequence is not an easy task, and it is becoming more important as sequence deviations among, and even within, species highlight functional or evolutionary implications for comparative genomics.
18584489	Although momilactone B has been studied as an allelochemical of rice (Oryza sativa L.), to date we have no report showing the effect of momilactone B on mammalian cells. This study was undertaken to examine whether this allelochemical has anticancer activity on cancer cells. We show here that momilactone B at micromolar doses has antitumor efficacy by inducing apoptosis in several blood cancer cells including human leukemic T cells. In addition, our study elucidated that anticancer activity of momilactone B on human leukemic T cells resulted from the induction of apoptosis via caspase and mitochondria. From these results, momilactone B can be considered as a novel therapeutic strategy for human leukemic T cells from its direct apoptosis-inducing activity.
18584595	In order to study the single-cell proteins and cellulase production, fungal degradation of alpha-cellulose was tested. Photochemical pretreatment of alpha-cellulose at lambda > 254 nm increases by over 100% the cellulase production by Chrysonilia sitophila (TFB strain). This is reflected in a larger production of soluble proteins in the filtrate with higher cellulase activity when compared with unirradiated cellulose. Single-cell protein production (insoluble proteins) was also improved after preirradiation of cellulose or even on rice hull as the only carbon source after inoculation with the spore of C. sitophila. This pretreatment is a valuable method for increasing the digestibility of lignocellulosic materials.
18585859	Rice plant pot experiments designed to identify benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) sources in plant tissues were conducted in an air-quality controlled greenhouse built to prevent contamination from B[a]P air pollution. Results from quartz sand cultures with control and 50, 100 and 500 microgkg(-1) of B[a]P treatments were compared with those from outdoor field experiments, in which rice plants were exposed to polluted air in the urban area of Shenyang, China. When B[a]P was strictly controlled in both air and quartz sand culture medium, the background values of B[a]P in rice plant tissues were uniformly very low. There was no significant difference of B[a]P contents of rice grain between control and treatments of B[a]P in controlled air quality trials. This indicated that the source of B[a]P in the rice grains is not from any B[a]P in the root culture media. The B[a]P content of rice grain, husk, and stem with leaf sampled from outdoor field was up to 7.33-, 9.21- and 27.10-fold higher than corresponding tissues from air-quality controlled conditions. This indicated that polluted air is the main source of B[a]P in aboveground tissues. Therefore control of B[a]P pollution in ambient air is of prime importance for improving the quality of cereal crops.
18586332	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is an important pathogen affecting rice production in subtropical and temperate regions. One-step real time RT-PCR methods using the TaqMan probe are described for quantitative detection of RSV in rice tissues and in Laodelphax striatellus Fallen, the small brown planthopper (SBPH). Primers and probe for specific detection of RSV were designed within the conserved region identified within the coat protein (CP) gene sequence. A DNA fragment was amplified for mimicking the complementary RNA by PCR-based gene assembly, and was used for generation of standard RNA templates. A sensitivity assay showed that the detection limit of the assay was 20 copies, and the standard curve had a linear range from 20 to 2 x 10(5) copies, with good reproducibility. An internal control assay designed to target the rice ubiquitin 5 gene (UBQ5) was included in detecting RSV in different infected rice tissues. Simultaneously, a real time RT-PCR assay was used to detect the RSV CP gene in viruliferous SBPH. The results showed that the numbers of RSV CP genes in different tissues were variable. Accumulation of the RSV CP gene was greater in rice leaf and SBPH thoraco-abdominal tissue than in rice stem and SBPH head, respectively. As determined by an end-point dilution comparison, one-step real time RT-PCR was close to 10(4)-fold more sensitive than the indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for RSV detection. This quantitative detection assay provides a valuable tool for diagnosis and molecular studies of RSV biology.
18586387	Sorption potential of rice (Oryza sativa) bran and rice husk for the removal of triazophos (TAP), an organophosphate pesticide, has been studied. The specific surface area were found to be 19+/-0.7 m(2)g(-1) and 11+/-0.8m(2)g(-1) for rice bran and rice husk, respectively. Rice bran exhibited higher removal efficiency (98+/-1.3%) than rice husk (94+/-1.2%) by employing triazophos solution concentration of 3 x 10(-5) M onto 0.2 g of each sorbent for 120 min agitation time at pH 6 and 303 K. The concentration range (3.2-32) x 10(-5) M was screened and sorption capacities of rice bran and rice husk for triazophos were computed by different sorption isotherms. The energy of sorption for rice bran and rice husk was assessed as 14+/-0.1 and 11+/-0.2 kJ mol(-1) and kinetics of the sorption is estimated to be 0.016+/-0.002 and 0.013+/-0.002 min(-1), respectively. Intraparticle diffusion rate was computed to be 4+/-0.8 and 4+/-0.9 nmol g(-1)min(-1/2). Thermodynamic constants DeltaH, DeltaS and DeltaG at varying temperatures (283-323 K) were also calculated.
18586507	This work reports the analysis of an additional hemoglobin (hb) gene copy, hb5, in the genome of rice. The amino acid sequence of Hb5 differs from the previously determined rice Hbs 1-4 in missing 11 residues in helix E. Transcripts of hb5 were found to be ubiquitous in rice organs, and hormone- and stress-response promoters exist upstream of the rice hb5 gene. Furthermore, the modeled structure of Hb5 based on the known crystal structure of rice Hb1 is unusual in that the putative distal His is distant from the heme Fe. This observation suggests that Hb5 binds and releases O(2) easily and thus that it functions as an O(2)-carrier or in some aspects of the O(2) metabolism.
18586508	The heavy metal nickel is an essential mineral trace nutrient found at low concentrations in most natural soils. However, it may reach toxic levels in certain areas and affect a number of biochemical and physiological processes in plants. Wilting and leaf necrosis have been described as typical visible symptoms of Ni(2+) toxicity. The plasma membrane (PM) of root cells constitutes the first barrier for the entry of heavy metals but also a target of their toxic action. This work studies the relationship between disturbances of membrane functionality and the development of the typical symptoms of Ni(2+) toxicity. Rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Bahia) grown in nutrient medium containing 0.5mM Ni(2+) showed a significant decrease in water content as a consequence of the stress. Addition of Ni(2+) to the solution bathing the roots induced a concentration-dependent PM depolarization but the activity of the PM-H(+)-ATPase was not inhibited by the presence of Ni(2+) and the initial resting potential recovered in less than 1h. In the short term (hours), membrane permeability of root cells was not significantly affected by Ni(2+) treatments. However, in the long term (days) a drastic loss of K(+) was measured in roots and shoots, which should be responsible for the changes in the water content measured, since stomatal conductance and the transpiration rate remained unaffected by Ni(2+) treatment. The effects induced by Ni(2+) were not permanent and could be reverted, at least in part, by transferring the plants to a medium without Ni(2+).
18586646	The aim of this study was to determine the iron status of infants who consumed porridge cooked in water with added ferrous sulphate. A total of 234 infants, aged 6-12 months, were recruited from 36 nurseries in the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK North Korea) and randomly divided into iron (Fe) and placebo groups. At baseline, almost half the children had Hb<110 g/L and no significant differences between the two groups were found with regard to hemoglobin concentration and anemia prevalence. The Fe group received rice porridge fortified with 10 mg of iron (as ferrous sulfate) per day, added to the water in which the rice was cooked and the placebo group non-fortified cereal for 6 months. After which, the hemoglobin (Hb), serum ferritin (SF) and packed cell volume (PCV) were measured and it was found that the proportion of children with anemia (Hb<110 g/L) was lower (24.3% v 48.1% p<0.01), the Hb levels (117.6 g/L v 109.8 g/L p<0.001) and serum ferritin were higher (40.7 v 26.8 mcg/L p<0.001); and iron deficiency anemia (Hb<110 g/L, SF<12 mcg/L) was lower in the Fe group (3% v 22% p<0.001) when compared to the placebo group. Ferrous sulphate, added to the water in which rice was cooked, lowered the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia of infants in the DPRK with no adverse reactions. This simple fortification would be suitable as a nationwide program in the DPRK and other countries with large infant nurseries.
18586653	Non-communicable diseases are escalating rapidly within the Pacific region, including Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia. A shift in dietary patterns from indigenous, high fiber, healthy local food to energy-dense, imported food with low nutritional value, and increased sedentary lifestyles are expediting this process. Essential to counteract this trend is an understanding of how people make food decisions. This participatory assessment utilized a quantitative and qualitative approach to capture diet patterns and knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and practices of food consumption. A structured 7-day food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) was used to quantify the diets of 293 adult Pohnpeian women attending an island-wide education/disability screening program. An ethnographic approach, including in-depth interviews, informal focus groups and observations documented food behavior practices and contributed to the design of the FFQ. Of those responding to the FFQ, 96% reported eating rice frequently (3-7 days/week) whereas 75% reported eating locally grown carbohydrate foods frequently. Factors associated with culture change, including availability, affordability, convenience, and status of food items were found to determine food decisions. Food-based, culturally sensitive and innovative strategies that utilize existing resources are required to promote local food production and consumption. Prevention programs with an information, education and communication (IEC) approach are needed to provide accurate and available health and nutrition knowledge and to increase the demand for local foods. Behavior modification requires the continued collaboration of the national, state, and community organizations that partnered on this research to strategize programs in order to target individual food choices and to transform the environment to support these decisions.
18586704	In bacterial evolution, inferring a strain tree, which is the evolutionary history of different strains of the same bacterium, plays a major role in analyzing and understanding the evolution of strongly isolated populations, population divergence and various evolutionary events, such as horizontal gene transfer and homologous recombination. Inferring a strain tree from multilocus data of these strains is exceptionally hard since, at this scale of evolution, processes such as homologous recombination result in a very high degree of gene tree incongruence. In this article we present a novel computational method for inferring the strain tree despite massive gene tree incongruence caused by homologous recombination. Our method operates in three phases, where in phase I a set of candidate strain-tree topologies is computed using the maximal cliques concept, in phase II divergence times for each of the topologies are estimated using mixed integer linear programming (MILP) and in phase III the optimal tree (or trees) is selected based on an optimality criterion. We have analyzed 1898 genes from nine strains of the Staphylococcus aureus bacteria, and identified a fully resolved (binary) strain tree with estimated divergence times, despite the high degrees of sequence identity at the nucleotide level and gene tree incongruence. Our method's efficiency makes it particularly suitable for analysis of genome-scale datasets, including those of strongly isolated populations which are usually very challenging to analyze. We have implemented the algorithms in the PhyloNet software package, which is available publicly at http://bioinfo.cs.rice.edu/phylonet/.
18586868	The rice (Oryza sativa) E3 ligase SPOTTED LEAF11 (SPL11) negatively regulates programmed cell death and disease resistance. We demonstrate here that SPL11 also regulates flowering via interaction with SPIN1 (for SPL11-interacting protein1), a Signal Transduction and Activation of RNA family member. SPIN1 binds RNA and DNA in vitro and interacts with SPL11 in the nucleus. Spl11 mutants have delayed flowering under long-day conditions. Spin1 overexpression causes late flowering independently of daylength; expression analyses of flowering marker genes in these lines suggested that SPIN1 represses flowering by downregulating the flowering promoter gene Heading date3a (Hd3a) via Hd1-dependent mechanisms in short days and by targeting Hd1-independent factors in long days. Both Spin1 and Spl11 are regulated diurnally in opposing phases. SPL11 negatively regulates Spin1 transcript levels, while SPIN1 also affects Spl11 expression. Moreover, we show that coincidence of high accumulation of Spin1 mRNA with the light in the morning and early evening is needed to repress flowering. SPIN1 is monoubiquitinated by SPL11, suggesting that it is not targeted for degradation. Our data are consistent with a model in which SPIN1 acts as a negative regulator of flowering that itself is negatively regulated by SPL11, possibly via ubiquitination.
18587070	Previous studies from our laboratory indicated that pre-germinated brown rice (PR) contained certain unknown bioactive lipids that activated two enzymes related to diabetes: Na+/K+ATPase and homocysteine-thiolactonase. In this paper, we report on the isolation and structural characterization of the activator lipids from PR bran as acylated steryl glucosides (ASGs). The activator lipid was isolated by silica gel column chromatography, and its chemical structure was determined by NMR, GC-MS, and tandem mass spectrometry. We demonstrated that the bioactive component consists of a mixture of acylated steryl beta-glucosides. Delta8-cholesterol and 2-hydroxyl stearic acid were identified as constituents of ASGs. The steryl glucosides (SGs) subsequent to alkaline hydrolysis lost this enzyme activator activity. Soybean-derived ASGs were not active. This activity may be quite peculiar to PR-derived ASGs. Our findings suggest that the molecular species of ASG may play an important contributing role in the anti-diabetic properties of a PR diet.
1858732	We sought to determine the efficacy of three different types of treatment in children with acute diarrhea who, during the oral rehydration period, had high stool output (greater than 10 mL/kg per hour). Sixty-six children, aged 1 to 18 months, with an average stool output of 22.6 mL/kg per hour were randomly distributed into three groups: group 1 received a rice flour solution, group 2 received the World Health Organization rehydration solution by gastric infusion, and group 3 continued to receive this solution orally. In all three groups, a decrease in stool output was observed, with the higher decrease observed in group 1 patients. Such a decrease facilitated rehydration of all 22 patients in group 1 (100%) in 3.3 +/- 1.5 hours, 16 (73%) in group 2 in 4.3 +/- 2.1 hours, and 15 (69%) in group 3 in 4.9 +/- 2.0 hours. No complications were observed. These data indicate that the rice flour solution is effective in children with high stool output diarrhea.
18587521	The paper presents a method for residue analysis of flubendiamide in rice (Oryza sativa), which includes improved extraction, cleanup and determination of flubendiamide in rice seeds, husk and straw by using LC with UV detection. Safety evaluation of this insecticide in rice has been carried out after applying its soluble concentrate (SC) formulation at recommended dose (30 g a.i. ha(-1)) and double of the recommended dose (60 g a.i. ha(-1)) on rice crop. MRL of flubendiamide on rice grain can be proposed as 0.2 mg kg(-1).
18587653	Recombinant proteins have been previously synthesized in a transgenic rice cell suspension culture system with the rice amylase 3D promoter, which can be induced via sugar starvation. However, the secreted recombinant proteins have been shown to be rapidly decreased as the result of proteolytic degradation occurring during prolonged incubation. The secreted proteases were identified via two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and ESI/Q-TOF mass spectrometry analyses. The internal amino acid sequences of 8 of 37 spots corresponded to cysteine proteinase (CysP), which is encoded for by Rep1 and EP3A. This result shows that CysP is a major secreted protease in rice cell suspension cultures following induction via sugar starvation. Intron-containing self-complementary hairpin RNA (ihpRNA)-mediated post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) was applied to suppress the expression of CysP in rice cell suspension cultures. The reduction of rice CysP mRNA and the detection of siRNA specific to CysP, an initiator of RNAi, were verified via Northern blot analysis and RNase protection assays, respectively, thereby indicating that PTGS operated successfully in this system. The analysis of total secreted protease and CysP activities evidenced lower activity than was observed with the wild-type. Furthermore, suspension cultures of rice cells transformed with both hGM-CSF and the gene expressing the ihpRNA of CysP evidenced a reduction in total protease and CysP activities, and an up to 1.9-fold improvement in hGM-CSF production as compared to that observed in a rice cell line expressing hGM-CSF only. These results demonstrate the feasibility of the suppression of CysP via RNA interference to reduce protease activity and to increase target protein accumulation in rice cell suspension cultures.
18587755
18588016	For saving energy in antibiotic production and reducing the amount of agricultural wastes, solid state fermentation was used in this study to produce tetracycline with sweet potato residue by Streptomyces viridifaciens ATCC 11989. It was found that the optimal media for tetracycline production were sweet potato residue 100 g, organic nitrogen (rice bran, wheat bran, or peanut meal) 20 g, (NH(4))(2)SO(4) 2.4 g, KH(2)PO(4) 0.4 g, CaCO(3) 1.8 g, NaCl 0.6 g, MgCl(2) 0.8 g, soluble starch 10 g, methionine 0.2 g, histidine 0.8 g, and monosodium glutamate 1.6 g with initial moisture content 68-72%, and initial pH 5.8-6.0. Each gram of dry weight substrate was inoculated with 1.0 x 10(8) conidia and incubated at 26 degrees C for 5-7 days, producing 4720 mug of total tetracycline equivalent potency. When incubated at 26 degrees C with the initial moisture content 68%, the conidia in solid media germinated on the second day, mycelia grew abundantly on the third day and reached stationary phase on the sixth day. The antibiotic production was consistent with the morphogenesis of S. viridifaciens: activity could be detected on the third day, had the maximal potency on the sixth day, and decreased slightly on the tenth day. (11-3-88 tly).
18588555	The clinical relevance of immunoglobulin E (IgE) to plant glycans is a longstanding debate. We sought to evaluate their clinical reactivity using the human glycoprotein lactoferrin expressed in rice. Allergic patients with IgE antibodies against plant glycans were analyzed for the presence of IgE against rice-produced lactoferrin. The potency of IgE to induce mediator release was assessed by basophil histamine release and skin prick tests (SPTs). Clinical relevance was evaluated by double-blind placebo-controlled oral challenge (DBPCOC). Twenty-four of 29 sera (82.7%) with IgE antibodies against plant glycans demonstrated IgE binding to transgenic lactoferrin. In three of five cases transgenic lactoferrin induced histamine release. Compared to a control major grass pollen allergen lactoferrin concentrations needed for biological activity of IgE were 5-6 orders of magnitude higher. Skin prick test and DBPCOC were negative in five patients with potential clinical reactivity that volunteered to undergo these in vivo challenges. Poor or no biological activity and lack of clinical relevance of IgE-binding plant glycans (five out of five) was demonstrated using human lactoferrin expressed in rice as a model.
18588956	The A20/AN1-type zinc finger protein family is conserved in animals and plants. Using human AWP1 protein as a query, we identified twelve A20/AN1-type zinc finger proteins in japonica rice. Most of these genes were constitutively expressed in leaves, roots, culms and spikes. Through microarray analysis, it was found that four genes (ZFP177, ZFP181, ZFP176, ZFP173), two genes (ZFP181 and ZFP176) and one gene (ZFP157) were significantly induced by cold, drought and H(2)O(2) treatments, respectively. Further expression analysis showed that ZFP177 was responsive to both cold and heat stresses, but down-regulated by salt. The subcellular localization assay indicated that ZFP177 was localized in cytoplasm in tobacco leaf and root cells. Yeast-one hybrid assay showed that ZFP177 lacked trans-activation potential in yeast cells. Overexpression of ZFP177 in tobacco conferred tolerance of transgenic plants to both low and high temperature stresses, but increased sensitivity to salt and drought stresses. Further we found expression levels of some stress-related genes were inhibited in ZFP177 transgenic plants. These results suggested that ZFP177 might play crucial but differential roles in plant responses to various abiotic stresses.
18588984	Glucoamylase, which catalyses the hydrolysis of the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bonds of starch, is an important industrial enzyme used in starch enzymatic saccharification. In this study, a glucoamylase gene from Aspergillus awamori, under the control of the promoter of seed storage protein Gt1, was introduced into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Significant glucoamylase activity was detected specifically in the seeds but not other tissues of the transgenic rice lines. The highest enzymatic activity was found in the transgenic line Bg17-2, which was estimated to have about 500 units per gram of seeds (one unit is defined as the amount of enzyme that produces 1 micromol of reducing sugar in 1 min at 60 degrees C using soluble starch as substrate). The optimum pH for the activity of the rice produced enzyme is 5.0-5.5, and the optimum temperature is around 60 degrees C. One part of this transgenic glucoamylase rice seed flour fully converted 25 parts of corn starch pre-liquefied by an alpha-amylase also produced by a transgenic rice into glucose in 16 h incubation. This study suggests that this hydrolysis enzyme may substitute commercial fermentation enzymes for industrial starch conversion.
18589580	This study analyzed eight cooked species of fish and one species of shrimps (grilled, curried, fried and cooked in rice) commonly consumed in Bahrain for their proximate, mineral and heavy metal content. The results reveled that the protein content was in the range of 22.8-29.2 g/100 g, while the fat content was between 2.9-11.9 g/100 g. The energy content was the highest in the fried Scomberomorus commerson being 894.2 KJ/100 g, followed by Scomberomorus commerson cooked in rice (867.3 KJ/100 g). The samples also had a considerable content of sodium ranging from 120-600 mg/100 g, potassium (310-560 mg/100 g) phosphorous (200-330 mg/100 g), magnesium (26-54 mg/100 g) and zinc (0.4-2.0 mg/100 g), while the other minerals were present to a lower extent. Lead was present to an extent of 0.30 microg/g in the grilled Plectorhinchus sordidus while Lethrinus nebulosus cooked in rice contained 0.35 microg/g of mercury. Cadmium levels were constant at <0.02 microg/g. It can be concluded the traditional methods of cooking fish and shrimps have an effect on their nutrient composition and heavy metal content hence, it is advisable to avoid excessive frying and use minimal salt. In addition, consuming of a wide variety of species of fish and alternating between the various modes of cooking is the best approach to achieve improved dietary habits, minimizing mercury exposure and increasing omega-3 fatty acid intake.
18589810	Phospholipase Ds (PLDs) exist in many plants. PLDs catalyse the hydrolysis of phospholipids (e.g. phosphatidylcholine) in cell membrane into phosphatidic acid (PA) and polar free heads (e.g. choline). Two PLD members from rice, OsPLD3 and OsPLD4, were studied by reverse genetics approaches. The results showed that the promoters of OsPLD3 and OsPLD4 could drive the expression of the reporter gene in various tissues of the rice flower organs at different levels. The expression of both genes was induced by wounding and methyl jasmonate (MeJA), but with different intensity at different time intervals. No prominent phenotypes were observed by RNA interference with the gene-specific artificial miRNAs or over-expression of the target genes in rice plants, implying the functional redundancy among different members of the rice PLD family.
18590228	Bacterial foot rot, caused by Erwinia chrysanthemi pv. zeae, is one of the most important diseases in rice. Genetic and molecular characters of toxin producting for Erwinia chrysanthemi pv. zeae were conducted in this paper. A plasmid-deficient strain, Ech7-mul, was obtained by chemical mutation,and the relative specific molecular mark with toxin was screened from Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) by PCR. The wild strain Ech7 and the plasmid-deficient strain Ech7-mul could both produce toxin.We screened 260 random primers in PCR, and found that a specific fragment (2139bp) could be amplified with K10 primer from theminus-toxin strain Ech7-4 DNA, but could not from the wild strain Ech7 DNA. The amplified fragment DNA was cloned and sequenced, and specific primers were designed to amplify it. The 2139bp fragment DNA could be a specific molecular mark with 100% SCAR identity between wild strain and the toxin mutant strain. Sequence analysis showed that there were five open reading frame (ORF), two of them were NADH-flavin reductase and N-acetyltransferase,respectively. Another ORF, located in the end region of 2139bp fragment, had 66% and 46% homologies with permeases of the drug/metabolite transporter (DMT) from Pseudomonas aerginosa (ZP00136947) and Yersinia Pestis (ZP01177873). Toxin biosynthesis in E. chrysanthemi pv. zeae might be coded by chromosome, but not by the bacterial plasmid.The position of gene mutation in the mutant Ech7-4 might be at the 3' region of toxin-relation SCAR DNA fragment.
18590523	The recent rapid accumulation of sequence resources of various crop species ensures an improvement in the genetics approach, including quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis as well as the holistic population analysis and association mapping of natural variations. Because the tribe Triticeae includes important cereals such as wheat and barley, integration of information on the genetic markers in these crops should effectively accelerate map-based genetic studies on Triticeae species and lead to the discovery of key loci involved in plant productivity, which can contribute to sustainable food production. Therefore, informatics applications and a semantic knowledgebase of genome-wide markers are required for the integration of information on and further development of genetic markers in wheat and barley in order to advance conventional marker-assisted genetic analyses and population genomics of Triticeae species. The Triticeae mapped expressed sequence tag (EST) database (TriMEDB) provides information, along with various annotations, regarding mapped cDNA markers that are related to barley and their homologues in wheat. The current version of TriMEDB provides map-location data for barley and wheat ESTs that were retrieved from 3 published barley linkage maps (the barley single nucleotide polymorphism database of the Scottish Crop Research Institute, the barley transcript map of Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research, and HarvEST barley ver. 1.63) and 1 diploid wheat map. These data were imported to CMap to allow the visualization of the map positions of the ESTs and interrelationships of these ESTs with public gene models and representative cDNA sequences. The retrieved cDNA sequences corresponding to each EST marker were assigned to the rice genome to predict an exon-intron structure. Furthermore, to generate a unique set of EST markers in Triticeae plants among the public domain, 3472 markers were assembled to form 2737 unique marker groups as contigs. These contigs were applied for pairwise comparison among linkage maps obtained from different EST map resources. TriMEDB provides information regarding transcribed genetic markers and functions as a semantic knowledgebase offering an informatics facility for the acceleration of QTL analysis and for population genetics studies of Triticeae.
18590820	Gibberellins (GAs) affect several growth and developmental responses during the plant life cycle. Components essential for GA perception and GA signaling have been identified in rice and Arabidopsis and are conserved among vascular plants but not in Physcomitrella patens. The recent observation that DELLAs bind in nuclei to different members of the phytochrome interacting factor family, to block their transcriptional activity, is an important breakthrough to the understanding of the functional mechanism of these repressors. Beyond its role in GA-signaling repression, DELLAs were found to regulate GA homeostasis and to represent a convergence point for other hormone-signaling pathways. These repressors impose a growth restraint under environmental adverse conditions, allowing land plants to adapt their life cycle to the changing environment.
18591056	To evaluate the possible role of antioxidant (vitamins A, E, C, beta-carotene, zinc, selenium) or pro-oxidant (iron, copper, manganese) factors present in the diet, in the risk for Parkinson's disease (PD), we conducted a dietetic study (pre- and postmarriage) which included 91 foodstuffs. We interviewed separately 119 PD patients (64 males, 55 females, age 65.3 +/- 8.5 years, age at marriage 27.8 +/- 5.9 years) and their spouses (age 65.0 +/- 9.2 years, age at marriage 27.2 +/- 5.9 years) as the control group (C). Premarriage consumption for each foodstuff was classified into: (1) rarely of annually, (2) monthly, or (3) weekly; and postmarriage consumption (which included the period between age at marruage and age 40 years; only concordant answers were considered to be valid) into: (1) PD > Control, (2) Control > PD, and (3) PD = Control. The premarriage interview showed a trend towards a lower consumption of peas in PD patients as compared to controls. The postmarriage interview in PD patients showed a higher tendency for the consumption of rice, bluefish, liver pat and eggs, and a less consumption of tea than controls. We were unable to find any consistent trend towards a lower consumption of vitamins E and C during adulthood in PD patients, but they seemed to have eaten selenium-rich foodstuffs more frequently than controls. These results differ from those obtained by previous studies, and question the possible role of premorbid dietary habits on the risk for PD.
18592691	18599Hong, a good Maize (Zea mays) inbred line as well as good transformation acceptor with high regeneration capacity, was used for isolating embryonic callus regeneration genes. Subtractive library was constructed by Suppression subtractive hybridization and screened by Reverse Northern Hybridization. The clones of No. 27 was randomly picked to sequence. NCBI blastx results showed the similarity to elongation factor 1gamma in rice.
18593042	A field experiment was conducted to study the effects of rice-duck farming on the related biotic populations in paddy field. The results showed that rice-duck farming had greater effects on the occurrence and damage of pests, pathogens and weeds, as well as the amount of pests' natural enemies in paddy field. The population of rice planthopper and leafhopper decreased by 64.8% and 78.5% after 12 and 42 days of duck-release, and the weeds decreased by 67.7% and 98.1% after 15 and 45 days of duck-release, respectively, compared with the control. The sheath blight index at the maximum tillering stage and full-heading stage in the rice-duck plots were 40.4% and 62.0% lower than those in the control plot, respectively. The population of spiders in duck-released field was increased obviously, which in turn decreased the damage of rice pests.
18593056	Ozone (O3) is recognized as one of the most important air pollutants. At present, the worldwide average tropospheric O3 concentration has been increased from an estimated pre-industrial level of 38 nl L(-1) (25-45 nl L(-1), 8-h summer seasonal average) to approximately 50 nl L(-1) in 2000, and to 80 nl L(-1) by 2100 based on most pessimistic projections. Oryza sativa L. (rice) is the most important grain crop in the world, and thus, to correctly evaluate how the elevated near-surface layer O3 concentration will affect the growth and development of rice is of great significance. This paper reviewed the chamber (including closed and open top chamber)-based studies about the effects of atmospheric ozone enrichment on the rice visible injury symptoms, photosynthesis, water relationship, phenology, dry matter production and allocation, leaf membrane protective system, and grain yield and its components. Further research directions in this field were discussed.
18593135	The kinetics of competing multiple-barrier unimolecular dissociations of o-, m-, and p-chlorotoluene radical cations to C7H7(+) (benzyl and tropylium) are studied by ab initio/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations. This system presents a very intriguing kinetic example in which the conventional approach assuming a single-barrier or a double-well potential surface with one transition state cannot predict or explain the outcome. The molecular parameters obtained at the SCF level of theory with the DZP basis set are utilized for the evaluation of microcanonical RRKM rate constants with no adjustable parameters. First-principles calculations provide the microscopic details of the reaction kinetics along the two competing multiple-barrier reaction pathways: the rate-energy curves for all elementary steps; temporal variations of the reactants, the reaction intermediates, and the products; and the product yield as a function of energy. The rate constant for each channel is calculated as a function of the internal energy at 0 K. After the thermal correction, the calculated rate-energy curves for the benzyl channel agree well with the photoelectron photoion coincidence data obtained at room temperature for all three isomers. Close agreement between experiments and theory suggests that first-principles calculations taking the full sequence of kinetic steps into account offer a useful kinetic model capable of correctly predicting the outcome of competing multiple-barrier reactions. The slowest process is identified as [1,2] and [1,3] alpha-H migration at the entrance to the tropylium and benzyl channel, respectively. However, the overall rate is determined not by the slowest process, but by the combination of the slowest rate and the net flux toward the product, which is multiplicatively reduced with an increasing number of reaction intermediates. The product yield calculation confirms the benzyl cation as the predominant product. For all isomers, the thermodynamically most stable tropylium ion is produced much less than expected because a large fraction of flux coming into the tropylium channel goes back to the benzyl channel. The benzyl channel is kinetically favored because it involves a lower entrance barrier with fewer rearrangements than the tropylium channel.
18593528	Two full-length cDNAs, PutPMP3-1 and PutPMP3-2, encoding PMP3 family proteins were isolated from Puccinellia tenuiflora, a monocotyledonous halophyte. Expression of both genes was induced by low temperature, salt stress, dehydration, ABA, and NaHCO(3). Transcripts of PutPMP3-2 were more strongly induced by these stresses relative to those of PutPMP3-1, particularly under low temperature and dehydration conditions. Expression of PutPMP3-1 and PutPMP3-2 in yeast mutants lacking the PMP3 gene can functionally complement the membrane hyperpolarization and salt sensitivity phenotypes resulting from PMP3 deletion. To compare the functions of PutPMP3-1 and PutPMP3-2, the orthologous genes in rice (OsLti6a and OsLti6b) were isolated. Both OsLti6a and OsLti6b could functionally complement the loss of PMP3 in yeast. PutPMP3-2 and OsLti6a were more effective in reversing membrane hyperpolarization than PutPMP3-1 and OsLti6b. However, the four yeast transformants each showed similar levels of salt tolerance. These results imply that these PMP3 family members don't function identically under different stress tolerance conditions.
1859353	Allozyme variation was studied in three Nilaparvata lugens biotypes infesting specific rice varieties and a biotype infesting a weed grass, Leersia hexandra. Of the 20 enzymes in N. lugens for which activity was noted, 9 were polymorphic. Eleven enzyme loci were monomorphic for the same allele in all biotype populations; the rest were polymorphic for two or more alleles. The mean number of alleles per polymorphic locus was 2.3, while the mean number of alleles per locus was 1.5; heterozygosity ranged from 0.02 to 0.06 (biotype 1 greater than biotype 3 greater than Leersia-infesting biotype greater than biotype 2). Allelic frequency differences were observed in five loci among the four biotypes. However, the coefficient of genetic identity (I) of 0.99+ showed that the four biotype populations were genetically close relatives or merely populations of N. lugens undergoing genetic differentiation.
18593744	The YABBY gene DROOPING LEAF (DL) regulates midrib formation in the leaves and carpel specification in the flowers of rice (Oryza sativa L). We found a new dl allele (dl-5) that caused a mild phenotype in the descendants of a mutable line, IM294. In plants homozygous for this allele, midrib structures were formed but their sizes were reduced. Molecular analysis revealed that a transposon, Ping, was inserted in the fourth intron of DL. Together with mPing and Pong, Ping is a member of a transposon family that was first identified as a group of active transposable elements in rice. Our finding of the Ping insertion in the DL gene is a first indication that Ping is active in planta, and that it can be transposed and integrated in a new locus. Ping seems to be still active because it was excised from intron 4 of DL at a relatively high frequency in rice calli. Real-time PCR analysis and in situ hybridization indicated that DL transcript levels were reduced in dl-5 without alterations in the spatial expression pattern of the DL gene. The reduction of DL expression may be due to inefficient splicing of the large intron caused by Ping insertion. By comparing the expression levels of DL and leaf phenotypes in the dl mutants with different severities, we confirmed our previous hypothesis that DL promotes cell proliferation in the central region of leaf primordia, and that this cell proliferation is critical for midrib formation in the mature leaves.
18594887	Oryza sativa L. cv IR64 is a widely cultivated, salt-sensitive indica rice, while Pokkali is a well-known, naturally salt-tolerant relative. To understand the molecular basis of differences in their salinity tolerance, three subtractive cDNA libraries were constructed. A total of 1,194 salinity-regulated cDNAs are reported here that may serve as repositories for future individual gene-based functional genomics studies. Gene expression data using macroarrays and Northern blots gives support to our hypothesis that salinity tolerance of Pokkali may be due to constitutive overexpression of many genes that function in salinity tolerance and are stress inducible in IR64. Analysis of genome architecture revealed the presence of these genes on all the chromosomes with several distinct clusters. Notably, a few mapped on one of the major quantitative trait loci - Saltol - on chromosome 1 and were found to be differentially regulated in the two contrasting genotypes. The present study also defines a set of known abiotic stress inducible genes, including CaMBP, GST, LEA, V-ATPase, OSAP1 zinc finger protein, and transcription factor HBP1B, that were expressed at high levels in Pokkali even in the absence of stress. These proposed genes may prove useful as "candidates" in improving salinity tolerance in crop plants using transgenic approach.
18594992	Leaves, the collective organ produced by the shoot apical meristem (SAM), are polarized along their adaxial-abaxial axis. In this study, we characterized two rice (Oryza sativa) allelic rolled-leaf mutants, rolled leaf 9-1 (rl9-1) and rl9-2, which display very similar phenotypes with completely adaxialized leaves and malformed spikelets. We cloned the RL9 gene by way of a map-based cloning strategy. Molecular studies have revealed that RL9 encodes a GARP protein, an orthologue of Arabidopsis KANADIs. RL9 is mainly expressed in roots, leaves, and flowers. The transient expression of a RL9-GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion protein has indicated that RL9 protein is localized in the nucleus, suggesting that RL9 acts as a putative transcription factor.
18595398	The proteomic analysis of rice (Oryza sativa L.) roots and leaves responding to 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (TCB) stress was carried out by two dimensional gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometric (MS), and protein database analysis. The results showed that 5 mg/L TCB stress had a significant effect on global proteome in rice roots and leaves. The analysis of the category and function of TCB stress inducible proteins showed that different kinds of responses were produced in rice roots and leaves, when rice seedlings were exposed to 5 mg/L TCB stress. Most responses are essential for rice defending the damage of TCB stress. These responses include detoxication of toxic substances, expression of pathogenesis-related proteins, synthesis of cell wall substances and secondary compounds, regulation of protein and amino acid metabolism, activation of methionine salvage pathway, and also include osmotic regulation and phytohormone metabolism. Comparing the TCB stress inducible proteins between the two cultivars, the beta-glucosidase and pathogenesis-related protein family 10 proteins were particularly induced by TCB stress in the roots of rice cultivar (Oryza sativa L.) Aizaizhan, and the glutathione S-transferase and aci-reductone dioxygenase 4 were induced in the roots of rice cultivar Shanyou 63. This may be one of the important mechanisms for Shanyou 63 having higher tolerance to TCB stress than Aizaizhan.
18595399	With rapid industrialization and urbanization in the Yangtze Delta, China, the tropospheric ozone concentration has increased to levels that induce crop yield loss. Rice, a widely grown crop in China, was investigated in field-established, open-top chambers. Four treatments were used: charcoal-filtered air (CF), non-charcoal-filtered air (NF), and charcoal-filtered air with two levels of additional ozone (O3-1 and O3-2). The AOT40s (accumulated hourly mean ozone concentration above 40 ppbv) were 0, 0.91, 23.24, and 39.28 ppmv x h for treatment of CF, NF, O3-1, and O3-2, respectively. The rice height and biomass were reduced in the elevated ozone concentration. Less organic matter partitioning to roots under the elevated ozone significantly decreased rice root activity. The yield loss was 14.3% and 20.2% under O3-1 and O3-2 exposure, respectively. This was largely caused by a reduction in grain weight per panicle.
18595401	A hydroponics experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of copper (Cu) on cadmium (Cd), calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), and zinc (Zn) uptake by several rice genotypes. The experiment was carried out as a 2x2x4 factorial with four rice genotypes and two levels of Cu and Cd in nutrient solution. Plants were grown in a growth chamber with controlled environment. The results showed a significant difference between the biomass of different rice genotypes (P < 0.001). The Cd and Cu concentration in the solution had no significant effect on the biomass. The addition of Cu significantly decreased Cd uptake by shoots and roots of rice (P < 0.001). The Cd concentration did not significantly influence Ca uptake by plants, whereas the Cu concentration did (P = 0.034). There was a significant influence of Cd on Fe uptake by shoots and roots (P < 0.001, P = 0.003, respectively). Zn uptake decreased significantly as the addition of Cd and Cu increased in shoots. We concluded that Cu had significant influence on Cd uptake. The possible mechanisms were discussed.
18595748	The protein kinase Snf1 is a major component of the glucose derepression pathway in yeast and a regulator of gene expression for the cell wall degrading enzyme (CWDE) in some plant pathogenic fungi. To address the molecular function of Snf1 in Magnaporthe oryzae, which causes the rice blast disease, MoSNF1 was cloned and functionally characterized using gene knock-out strategies. MoSNF1 functionally complemented the growth defect of the yeast snf1 mutant on a non-fermenting carbon source. However, the growth rate of the Deltamosnf1 mutant on various carbon sources was reduced independent of glucose, and the expression of the CWDE genes in the mutant was induced during derepressing condition like the wild type. The pre-penetration stage including conidial germination and appressorium formation of the Deltamosnf1 was largely impaired, and the pathogenicity of the Deltamosnf1 was significantly reduced. Most strikingly, the Deltamosnf1 mutant produced only a few conidia and had a high frequency of abnormally shaped conidia compared to the wild type. Our results suggest that MoSNF1 is a functional homolog of yeast Snf1, but its contribution to sporulation, vegetative growth and pathogenicity is critical in M. oryzae.
18596034	Pathogen-inducible oxygenase (PIOX) oxygenates fatty acids into 2R-hydroperoxides. PIOX belongs to the fatty acid alpha-dioxygenase family, which exhibits homology to cyclooxygenase enzymes (COX-1 and COX-2). Although these enzymes share common catalytic features, including the use of a tyrosine radical during catalysis, little is known about other residues involved in the dioxygenase reaction of PIOX. We generated a model of linoleic acid (LA) bound to PIOX based on computational sequence alignment and secondary structure predictions with COX-1 and experimental observations that governed the placement of carbon-2 of LA below the catalytic Tyr-379. Examination of the model identified His-311, Arg-558, and Arg-559 as potential molecular determinants of the dioxygenase reaction. Substitutions at His-311 and Arg-559 resulted in mutant constructs that retained virtually no oxygenase activity, whereas substitutions of Arg-558 caused only moderate decreases in activity. Arg-559 mutant constructs exhibited increases of greater than 140-fold in Km, whereas no substantial change in Km was observed for His-311 or Arg-558 mutant constructs. Thermal shift assays used to measure ligand binding affinity show that the binding of LA is significantly reduced in a Y379F/R559A mutant construct compared with that observed for Y379F/R558A construct. Although Oryza sativa PIOX exhibited oxygenase activity against a variety of 14-20-carbon fatty acids, the enzyme did not oxygenate substrates containing modifications at the carboxylate, carbon-1, or carbon-2. Taken together, these data suggest that Arg-559 is required for high affinity binding of substrates to PIOX, whereas His-311 is involved in optimally aligning carbon-2 below Tyr-379 for catalysis.
18596062	We describe how rice leaves are regionalized and regulated along the central-marginal axis. The shoot organization2 (sho2) mutant, a weak allele of SHOOTLESS4 that is a ZIPPY/ARGONAUTE7 homolog in rice, shows a variety of leaf abnormalities; filamentous leaves, bi- or trifurcated leaves, separation of the filamentous structure from the leaf blade or deletion of the margin. All of these phenotypes can be interpreted as combinatorial defects in the growth of the central, lateral and marginal domains along the central-marginal axis, on the condition that the growth of the central domain is predominant. The leaf founder cells for the lateral and marginal domains are recruited normally in sho2, indicating that sho2 is defective in the growth of leaf domains after the founder cells are recruited. The expression pattern of SHO2 in the outer layer of the shoot apical meristem and the adaxial surface of the leaf, as well as the altered expression of HD-ZIP III and ETTIN homologs in the central domain of sho2 leaves, suggest that normal development of the central domain is a prerequisite for the synchronous growth of the three domains. This synchrony is thought to be mediated by a small interfering RNA-dependent process.
18596981	The genus Oryza is being used as a model in plant genomic studies although there are several issues still to be resolved regarding the spatio-temporal evolution of this ancient genus. Particularly contentious is whether undated transoceanic natural dispersal or recent human interference has been the principal agent determining its present distribution and differentiation. In this context, we studied the origin and distribution history of the allotetraploid CD rice genome. It is endemic to the Neotropics but the genus is thought to have originated in the Paleotropics, and there is relatively little genetic divergence between some orthologous sequences of the C genome component and their Old World counterparts. Because of its allotetraploidy, there are several potential pitfalls in trying to date the formation of the CD genome using molecular data and this could lead to erroneous estimates. Therefore, we rather chose to rely on historical evidence to determine whether or not the CD genome was present in the Neotropics before the arrival of Columbus. We searched early collections of herbarium specimens and studied the reports of explorers of the tropical Americas for references to rice. In spite of numerous collectors traveling inland and collecting Oryza, plants determined as CD genome species were not observed away from cultivated rice fields until 1869. Various arguments suggest that they only consisted of weedy forms until that time. The spatio-temporal distribution of herbarium collections fits a simple biogeographical scenario for the emergence in cultivated rice fields followed by radiation in the wild of the CD genome in the Neotropics during the last four centuries. This probably occurred from species introduced to the Americas by humans and we found no evidence that the CD genome pre-existed in the Old World. We therefore propose a new evolutionary hypothesis for such a recent origin of the CD genome. Moreover, we exemplify how an historical approach can provide potentially important information and help to disentangle the timing of evolutionary events in the history of the Oryza genomes.
18597039	Genes regulated by gibberellin (GA) during leaf sheath elongation in rice seedlings were identified using the transcriptome approach. mRNA from the basal regions of leaf sheaths treated with GA3 was analyzed by high-coverage gene expression profiling. 33,004 peaks were detected, and 30 transcripts showed significant changes in the presence of GA3. Among these, basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor (AK073385) was significantly upregulated. Quantitative PCR analysis confirmed that expression of AK073385 was controlled by GA3 in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor (AK073385) is therefore involved in the regulation of gene expression by GA3.
18598174	Hyaluronidase hydrolyzes glycosaminoglycans, including hyaluronan, in the extracellular matrix during tissue remodeling. Hyaluronidase activity increases in chronic inflammatory conditions, e.g., inflammatory joint disease. In this study, we tested the ability of ethanolic extracts (1:9 [wt/vol] of 50% ethanol) of bran from six cultivated varieties of Sorghum bicolor to inhibit hyaluronidase activity in vitro in comparison to extracts of wheat and rice bran. Each extract inhibited hyaluronidase activity with this order of potency: Sumac > Shanqui Red > Black > Mycogen > Fontanelle > White sorghum. Extracts of wheat and rice bran had weak inhibitory activities relative to the high phenolic sorghum brans. Hyaluronidase inhibition correlated positively with total phenolic content and ferric reducing antioxidant power values for each bran extract. Inhibition was not only due to condensed tannins (proanthocyanidins) because the Black sorghum cultivar lacks condensed tannins but has abundant anthocyanins and other polyphenols. Since hyaluronidase activity is important in conditions such as osteoarthritis and skin aging, these sorghum varieties deserve consideration for functional foods and beverages, and for nutraceutical and cosmeceutical ingredients.
1859864	A simple method is presented for the preparation of nuclear extracts from suspension cultures of rice, wheat and tobacco cells. These extracts are shown to be capable of RNA Polymerase II-dependent transcription from two plant promoters in vitro; a 250 bp fragment of a wheat gliadin promoter containing sequences from -167 bp to +83 relative to the in vivo transcriptional initiation site and two fragments of the CaMV 35S promoter, containing sequences from -419 to +17, and from -90 to +17. Using the rice extract, transcription is shown to be extract-dependent, DNA-dependent, alpha-amanatin-sensitive, promoter-dependent, and accurate with respect to initiation site selection on the gliadin promoter and the -90 to +17 35S promoter, but not accurate on the -419 to +17 35S promoter.
1859866	Steady-state levels of mRNA from individual alpha-amylase genes were measured in the embryo and aleurone tissues of rice (Oryza sativa) and two varieties of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Himalaya and cv. Klages) during germination. Each member of the alpha-amylase multigene families of rice and barley was differentially expressed in each tissue. In rice, alpha-amylase genes displayed tissue-specific expression in which genes RAmy3B, RAmy3C, and RAmy3E were preferentially expressed in the aleurone layer, genes RAmy1A, RAmy1B and RAmy3D were expressed in both the embryo and aleurone, and genes RAmy3A and RAmy2A were not expressed in either tissue. Whenever two or more genes were expressed in any tissue, the rate of mRNA accumulation from each gene was unique. In contrast to rice, barley alpha-amylase gene expression was not tissue-specific. Messenger RNAs encoding low- and high-pI alpha-amylase isozymes were detectable in both the embryo and aleurone and accumulated at different rates in each tissue. In particular, peak levels of mRNA encoding high-pI alpha-amylases always preceded those encoding low-pI alpha-amylases. Two distinct differences in alpha-amylase gene expression were observed between the two barley varieties. Levels of high-pI alpha-amylase mRNA peaked two days earlier in Klages embryos than in Himalaya embryos. Throughout six days of germination, Klages produced three times as much high-pI alpha-amylase mRNA and nearly four times as much low-pI alpha-amylase mRNA than the slower-germinating Himalaya variety.
18599101	Leptospirosis has been reported in rural areas of Brazil. However, there is limited information about the exposure risk or the risk of Leptospira infection for rural-based populations. A cross-sectional study was carried out in order to determine the prevalence and risk factors for prior Leptospira infection in a rural subsistence farming region of the state of Rio Grande do Norte, an area in which outbreaks of leptospirosis have occurred. Among 290 individuals enrolled, 44 (15.2%) had anti-Leptospira IgM antibodies as determined by IgM ELISA. Infection tended to occur with activities related to the rice fields (P=0.08). Our findings indicate that Leptospira infection occurs even in years of low rainfall, and may have an important impact among poor rural-based subsistence farmers in Brazil. Additional studies are needed to characterize the mode of transmission in this region.
18599581	In rice (Oryza sativa), the presence of a dominant Badh2 allele encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH2) inhibits the synthesis of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), a potent flavor component in rice fragrance. By contrast, its two recessive alleles, badh2-E2 and badh2-E7, induce 2AP formation. Badh2 was found to be transcribed in all tissues tested except for roots, and the transcript was detected at higher abundance in young, healthy leaves than in other tissues. Multiple Badh2 transcript lengths were detected, and the complete, full-length Badh2 transcript was much less abundant than partial Badh2 transcripts. 2AP levels were significantly reduced in cauliflower mosaic virus 35S-driven transgenic lines expressing the complete, but not the partial, Badh2 coding sequences. In accordance, the intact, full-length BADH2 protein (503 residues) appeared exclusively in nonfragrant transgenic lines and rice varieties. These results indicate that the full-length BADH2 protein encoded by Badh2 renders rice nonfragrant by inhibiting 2AP biosynthesis. The BADH2 enzyme was predicted to contain three domains: NAD binding, substrate binding, and oligomerization domains. BADH2 was distributed throughout the cytoplasm, where it is predicted to catalyze the oxidization of betaine aldehyde, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (AB-ald), and 3-aminopropionaldehyde. The presence of null badh2 alleles resulted in AB-ald accumulation and enhanced 2AP biosynthesis. In summary, these data support the hypothesis that BADH2 inhibits 2AP biosynthesis by exhausting AB-ald, a presumed 2AP precursor.
18599652	Protein ubiquitination is a posttranslational regulatory process essential for plant growth and interaction with the environment. E3 ligases, to which the seven in absentia (SINA) proteins belong, determine the specificity by selecting the target proteins for ubiquitination. SINA proteins are found in animals as well as in plants, and a small gene family with highly related members has been identified in the genome of rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), Medicago truncatula, and poplar (Populus trichocarpa). To acquire insight into the function of SINA proteins in nodulation, a dominant negative form of the Arabidopsis SINAT5 was ectopically expressed in the model legume M. truncatula. After rhizobial inoculation of the 35S:SINAT5DN transgenic plants, fewer nodules were formed than in control plants, and most nodules remained small and white, a sign of impaired symbiosis. Defects in rhizobial infection and symbiosome formation were observed by extensive microscopic analysis. Besides the nodulation phenotype, transgenic plants were affected in shoot growth, leaf size, and lateral root number. This work illustrates a function for SINA E3 ligases in a broad spectrum of plant developmental processes, including nodulation.
18599703	Two facultatively anaerobic, nitrogen-fixing bacteria (strains MSSRF30(T) and MSSRF31) were isolated from a mangrove-associated wild rice (Porteresia coarctata Tateoka). These strains were determined to be nitrogen-fixers using the acetylene reduction assay and by PCR detection of a nifH gene amplicon. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the novel strains were most closely related to Vibrio fluvialis LMG 7894(T) (96.8 % gene sequence similarity), Vibrio furnissii LMG 7910(T) (96.8 % sequence similarity) and Vibrio tubiashii CIP 102760(T) (96.7 % sequence similarity). Further multilocus sequence analysis using recA, pyrH, rpoA and nifH genes also showed low levels of sequence similarities (83-93 %) with all species of the genus Vibrio with validly published names. A multigene phylogenetic tree using concatenated sequences of the four genes (16S rRNA, rpoA, recA and pyrH) showed that strains MSSRF30(T) and MSSRF31 occupied a distinct phylogenetic position, forming a long branching that was not clustered with any other recognized Vibrio species. The fatty acid profile also suggested that the novel strains belonged to the genus Vibrio. The results of physiological and biochemical tests, genomic fingerprinting and DNA-DNA hybridization analyses clearly differentiated both novel strains from their closest phylogenetic neighbours, Vibrio cholerae IID6019, Vibrio mimicus LMG 7896(T), V. fluvialis LMG 7894(T) and V. furnissii LMG 7910(T). Several phenotypic traits enabled the differentiation of strain MSSRF30(T) from other species of the genus Vibrio. The DNA G+C content of strain MSSRF30(T) was 44.4+/-3.1 mol%. Based on genotypic, phenotypic, chemotaxonomic, phylogenetic and DNA-DNA hybridization analyses, the name Vibrio porteresiae sp. nov. (type strain MSSRF30(T)=LMG 24061(T)=DSM 19223(T)) is proposed for this novel taxon.
18600039	The genus Burkholderia consists of extremely versatile bacteria that occupy diverse niches and are commonly encountered in the rhizosphere of crop plants. In this study, we characterized three plant growth promoting strains assigned as Burkholderia sp. using biochemical and molecular characterization. The Burkholderia spp. strains CBMB40, CBPB-HIM, and CBPB-HOD were characterized using biochemical tests, BIOLOG carbon substrate utilization, fatty acid methyl ester analysis, analysis of recA gene sequences, and DNA-DNA hybridization. The results from these studies indicated that the strains CBMB40, CBPB-HIM, and CBPBHOD can be assigned under Burkholderia vietnamiensis, Burkholderia ubonensis, and Burkholderia pyrrocinia, respectively.
18600321	The potential of nitrogen-fixing (NF) bacteria to form a symbiotic relationship with leguminous plants and fix atmospheric nitrogen has been exploited in the field to meet the nitrogen requirement of the latter. This phenomenon provides an alternative to the use of the nitrogenous fertiliser whose excessive and imbalanced use over the decades has contributed to green house emission (N2O) and underground water leaching. Recently, it was observed that non-leguminous plants like rice, sugarcane, wheat and maize form an extended niche for various species of NF bacteria. These bacteria thrive within the plant, successfully colonizing roots, stems and leaves. During the association, the invading bacteria benefit the acquired host with a marked increase in plant growth, vigor and yield. With increasing population, the demand of non-leguminous plant products is growing. In this regard, the richness of NF flora within non-leguminous plants and extent of their interaction with the host definitely shows a ray of hope in developing an ecofriendly alternative to the nitrogenous fertilisers. In this review, we have discussed the association of NF bacteria with various non-leguminous plants emphasizing on their potential to promote host plant growth and yield. In addition, plant growth-promoting traits observed in these NF bacteria and their mode of interaction with the host plant have been described briefly.
18600788	The rice water weevil (RWW) Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) is an invasive insect pest of rice Oryza sativa L. in China. Little is known about the interactions of this weevil with indigenous herbivores. In the present study, adult feeding and population density of the weevil, injury level of striped stem borer Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) and pink stem borer Sesamia inferens (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) to rice, as well as growth status of their host plants were surveyed in a rice field located in Southeastern Zhejiang, China, in 2004 with the objective to discover interspecific interactions on the rice. At tillering stage, both adult feeding of the weevil and injury of the stem borers tended to occur on larger tillers (bearing 5 leaves) compared with small tillers (bearing 2~4 leaves), but the insects showed no evident competition with each other. At booting stage, the stem borers caused more withering/dead hearts and the weevil reached a higher density on the plants which had more productive tillers and larger root system; the number of weevils per tiller correlated negatively with the percentage of withering/dead hearts of plants in a hill. These observations indicate that interspecific interactions exist between the rice water weevil and the rice stem borers with negative relations occurring at booting or earlier developmental stages of rice.
18600944	A reversibly soluble-autoprecipitating cellulase was prepared by covalently immobilizing Meicelase on an enteric coating polymer (AS-L, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate). The immobilized enzyme (M-AS) was reversibly soluble-insoluble depending on the pH of the reaction medium. Moreover, the enzymatic activity of M-AS, in a soluble state, for microcrystalline cellulose was higher than that of the conventional solid immobilized enzyme. On the other hand, M-AS, in an insoluble state, and good properties of self-sedimentation, and a large portion of M-AS spontaneously precipitated for about 15 min at pH 3.8. In the repeated hydrolysis of rice straw, delignified with sodium hydroxide using a bioreactor with a conical bottom, M-AS was separated batchwise from a production solution by self-sedimentation in a conical bottom of the bioreactor. When delignified, rice straw was hydrolyzed repeatedly by reuse of M-AS; the total amount of soluble sugar produced from 5 g of delignified rice straw was 2.7 g. Further, by the hydrolysis method with repeated removal of reaction inhibitors (soluble sugar), the time required for converting the same amount of delignified rice straw to soluble sugar was significantly reduced, as compared with that by the standard reaction method.
1860151	Sugar-based oral rehydration therapy (ORT) for diarrhoea is promoted in many countries of the world. One programme in Bangladesh has instructed more than 13 million mothers in the preparation of a sugar-salt solution in the home; despite very high rates of correct mixing and knowledge, subsequent application was found in only some 20% of all diarrhoea episodes. Since rice is far more available in rural homes (95%) than any type of sugar (30%) and rice gruel is a widely accepted food during illness, a field trial was conducted in three areas (total population, 68,345) to compare the acceptability and use of rice-based ORT with that of sugar-based ORT. Although the mothers unanimously agreed that the rice-based solutions "stopped" the diarrhoea more quickly, they used the sugar-based solutions twice as often (in 40% of severe watery episodes) as the rice-based solutions (in 18%), because the rice-ORT was much more time-consuming and difficult to prepare. The observed reduced utilization of home-made rice-ORT makes it a poor substitute for sugar-ORT at the community level in rural Bangladesh.
18602008	Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) has been considered as a regulator of both prosurvival and prodeath pathways in the nervous system. The present study was designed to elucidate the role of HIF-1alpha in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury. Rice-Vannucci model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury was used in seven-day-old rats, by subjecting unilateral carotid artery ligation followed by 2 h of hypoxia (8% O2 at 37 degrees C). HIF-1alpha activity was inhibited by 2-methoxyestradiol (2ME2) and enhanced by dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG). Results showed that 2ME2 exhibited dose-dependent neuroprotection by decreasing infarct volume and reducing brain edema at 48 h post HI. The neuroprotection was lost when 2ME2 was administered 3 h post HI. HIF-1alpha upregulation by DMOG increased the permeability of the BBB and brain edema compared with HI group. 2ME2 attenuated the increase in HIF-1alpha and VEGF 24 h after HI. 2ME2 also had a long-term effect of protecting against the loss of brain tissue. The study showed that the early inhibition of HIF-1alpha acutely after injury provided neuroprotection after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia which was associated with preservation of BBB integrity, attenuation of brain edema, and neuronal death.
18602205	Existence of arsenic-rich (exceeds 2,000 mg/kg) iron pyrite in Bengal delta sediments is responsible for arsenic release in aquifer. Ingestion of contaminated drinking water is not the only elevated source of arsenic to the diet. Irrigation of agricultural fields with arsenic-contaminated groundwater has led to arsenic build-up in soil, with subsequent elevation of arsenic in crops grown on these soils. About 50.7 and 11.2 kg of arsenic are withdrawn per year from 23 and 18 shallow tubewells, used for agricultural irrigation in the studied two districts Murshidabad and Nadia, respectively and deposited on lands throughout the year. Considerable higher amounts of arsenic are accumulated in paddy plants. Mean arsenic concentration in food categories is 107 microg/kg. Arsenic concentrations are high in cooked food and skin of the vegetables. Arsenic concentration in cooked rice increases with water arsenic concentration. About 70.2% of arsenic is recovered by using the analytical speciation extraction method. Inorganic arsenic and DMA contribute 89.5% and 10.5% of the total content of arsenic in food, respectively. About 0.081% and 1.57% of arsenic are accumulated in rice grain from arsenic-deposited lands and contaminated soils. The daily dietary intake of inorganic arsenic (mug/kg body wt./day) by an adult from rice grain itself (2.32) is higher than the WHO recommended PTDI value of inorganic arsenic (2.1) and inorganic arsenic contributes 96.8% of the total dietary intakes of arsenic. Population exposed to arsenic toxicity has been identified.
18602476	A fungal strain, BCC2871 (Periconia sp.), was found to produce a thermotolerant beta-glucosidase, BGL I, with high potential for application in biomass conversion. The full-length gene encoding the target enzyme was identified and cloned into Pichia pastoris KM71. Similar to the native enzyme produced by BCC2871, the recombinant beta-glucosidase showed optimal temperature at 70 degrees C and optimal pH of 5 and 6. The enzyme continued to exhibit high activity even after long incubation at high temperature, retaining almost 60% of maximal activity after 1.5h at 70 degrees C. It was also stable under basic conditions, retaining almost 100% of maximal activity after incubation for 2h at pH8. The enzyme has high activity towards cellobiose and other synthetic substrates containing glycosyl groups as well as cellulosic activity toward carboxymethylcellulose. Thermostability of the enzyme was improved remarkably in the presence of cellobiose, glucose, or sucrose. This beta-glucosidase was able to hydrolyze rice straw into simple sugars. The addition of this beta-glucosidase to the rice straw hydrolysis reaction containing a commercial cellulase, Celluclast 1.5L (Novozyme, Denmark) resulted in increase of reducing sugars being released compared to the hydrolysis without the beta-glucosidase. This enzyme is a candidate for applications that convert lignocellulosic biomass to biofuels and chemicals.
18602811	Tocotrienols are naturally occurring isoprenoid compounds highly enriched in palm oil, rice bran, oat, wheat germ, barley and rye. Tocotrienols have antioxidant properties as well as potent anticancer properties. In this study, the mechanisms underlying the apoptosis of gamma-tocotrienol on human gastric adenocarcinoma SGC-7901 cells were further studied, especially in correlation with the involvement of the apoptotic pathway. gamma-Tocotrienol inhibited SGC-7901 cell growth in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The inhibitory effects of SGC-7901 cells were correlated with the DNA damage and arresting cell cycle at G(0)/G(1) phase in a time-dependent manner at 60 mumol/L concentration of gamma-tocotrienol. gamma-Tocotrienol induced activation of caspase-3 and increased the cleavage of the downstream substrate poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Furthermore, gamma-tocotrienol-induced apoptosis on SGC-7901 cells was mediated by activation of caspase-9. The data in this study suggested that gamma-tocotrienol could induce the apoptosis on human gastric cancer SGC-7901 cells via mitochondria-dependent apoptosis pathway. Thus, our findings revealed gamma-tocotrienol as a potential, new chemopreventive agent for human gastric cancer.
18603363	Cadmium contamination in soil has become a serious issue in sustainable agriculture production and food safety. A pot experiment was conducted to study the influence of four N fertilizer forms on grain yield, Cd concentration in plant tissues and oxidative stress under two Cd levels (0 and 100 mg Cd kg(-1)soil). The results showed that both N form and Cd stress affected grain yield, with urea-N and NH(4)(+)-N treatments having significantly higher grain yields, and Cd addition reducing yield. NO(3)(-)-N and NH(4)(+)-N treated plants had the highest and lowest Cd concentration in plant tissues, respectively. Urea-N and NH(4)(+)-N treatments had significantly higher N accumulation in plant tissues than other two N treatments. Cd addition caused a significant increase in leaf superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) activities for all N treatments, except for NO(3)(-)-N treatment, with urea-N and NH(4)(+)-N treated plants having more increase than organic-N treated ones. The results indicated that growth inhibition, yield reduction and Cd uptake of rice plants in response to Cd addition varied with the N fertilizer form.
1860377	This paper describes the characterization and chromosomal distribution of three different rice (Oryza sativa) repetitive DNA sequences. The three sequences were characterized by sequence analysis, which gave 355, 498 and 756 bp for the length of the repeat unit in Os48, OsG3-498 and OsG5-756, respectively. Copy number determination by quantitative DNA slot-blot hybridization analysis showed 4000, 1080 and 920 copies, respectively, per haploid rice genome for the three sequences. In situ DNA hybridization analysis revealed that 95% of the silver grains detected with the Os48 probe were localized to euchromatic ends of seven long arms and one short arm out of the 12 rice chromosomes. For the OsG3-498 repetitive sequence, the majority of silver grains (58%) were also clustered at the same chromosomal ends as that of Os48. The minority (28%) of silver grains were located at heterochromatic short arms and centromeric regions. For the OsG5-756 repetitive sequence, 81% of the silver grains labeled the heterochromatic short arms and regions flanking all of the 12 centromeres. Thus, each of these three repetitive sequences was distributed at specific defined chromosomal locations rather than randomly at many chromosomal locations. The approximate copy number of a given repetitive DNA sequence at any specific chromosomal location was calculated by combining the information from in situ DNA hybridization analysis and the total copy number as determined by DNA slot-blot hybridization.
18603812	High-quality total RNA was extracted using a cethyltrimethylammonium bromide-containing buffer followed by an acid guanidium thiocyanate-phenol-chloroform treatment from recalcitrant plant tissues such as tree leaves (pine, Norway spruce, ginkgo, Japanese cedar, rose), flowers (rose, Lotus japonicus) and storage tissues (seeds of Lotus japonicus and rice, sweet potato tuber, banana fruit). This protocol greatly reduced the time required for RNA extraction.
18604208	The domestication of crops involves a complex process of selection in plant evolution and is associated with changes in the DNA regulating agronomically important traits. Here we report the cloning of a newly identified QTL, qSW5 (QTL for seed width on chromosome 5), involved in the determination of grain width in rice. Through fine mapping, complementation testing and association analysis, we found that a deletion in qSW5 resulted in a significant increase in sink size owing to an increase in cell number in the outer glume of the rice flower; this trait might have been selected by ancient humans to increase yield of rice grains. In addition, we mapped two other defective functional nucleotide polymorphisms of rice domestication-related genes with genome-wide RFLP polymorphisms of various rice landraces. These analyses show that the qSW5 deletion had an important historical role in artificial selection, propagation of cultivation and natural crossings in rice domestication, and shed light on how the rice genome was domesticated.
18604813	Rice seed callus expressed and secreted alpha-amylase at high levels. Twenty percent of the protein secreted by the callus was alphaamylase. The callus secreted about 840 mug alpha-amylase with 10.9 x 10(3) units of activity per gram dry weight callus per day. The alpha-amylase from callus exhibited a more complex isoform pattern than the germinating seed alpha-amylase. In addition, the level of mRNA expression by the five alpha-amylase gene groups was markedly different between callus and the germinating seed. The rice callus culture has features which it attractive as a potential system for expression proteins in plant cell fermentation systems.
18607078	To gain further insight into herbicide detoxification, we studied the herbicide activity and specificity toward glutathione S-transferases from human and rice. In this study, the genes of the plant specific phi and tau class GST enzymes from Oryza sativa (OsGST) and human pi class GST enzyme (hGSTP1-1) were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET and pKK vector systems, respectively. The gene products were purified to homogeneity by GSH Sepharose affinity column chromatography. The herbicide specificity of the enzymes was investigated by enzyme-catalyzed conjugation of GSH with chloroacetanilide, diphenylether and chloro-s-triazine herbicides. The hGSTP1-1 showed very high specific activity toward atrazine. On the other hand, the phi class OsGST enzymes showed high specific activity toward chloroacetanilide herbicides, acetochlor, alachlor and metolachlor. The tau class GST enzymes displayed remarkable activity toward the diphenylether herbicide, fluorodifen. From these results, we conclude that the phi and the tau class GST enzymes show herbicide specificities and also they play an important role in the detoxification reaction of plant toward herbicides.
18607265	Regurgitation is frequent in infants. We evaluated changes in regurgitation among patient groups fed standard formula, standard formula subsequently thickened with cereal, or formula manufactured with bean gum as a thickening agent. A prospective, blinded, randomised 1-month intervention trial evaluating the efficacy of parental reassurance of the regurgitating child in combination with 3 formula interventions--standard infant formula (group A); 5 g of rice cereal added to 100 mL standard formula (group B); and formula manufactured with bean gum as a thickening agent (group C)--was performed in 60 infants presenting with more than 4 episodes of regurgitation and/or vomiting per day during the week before inclusion. Formula intake, infant comfort, stool aspects, and weight gain were evaluated. All of the infants and data recorded by parents in a diary were evaluated weekly by a blinded health care professional. At baseline, groups A, B, and C were similar for all of the parameters. After the 1-month intervention, regurgitation/vomiting decreased significantly in all 3 groups (P < 0.0005). Although the decrease was largest in group C (-4.2 +/- 2.1 episodes/day), the incidence did not differ significantly with groups A or B. At no evaluation interval was there a difference in volume of formula intake, infant comfort, stool frequency, or aspect. After 1 month, weight gain was significantly greater in group C compared with group A (19.9% vs 16.4%; P < 0.001). Thickening of formula decreases regurgitation, but not significantly. Parental reassurance remains the cornerstone of the treatment of infant regurgitation.
18608507	The accurate quantification of non-Basmati rice in Basmati rice is central to the successful prosecution of adulteration, where non-Basmati rice has been substituted for Basmati rice. The current method and three alternatives of constructing calibration curves for the measurement of non-Basmati rice in Basmati rice using microsatellite analysis were investigated. The methods compared involved power regression, linear regression (with and without log(10) transformation) and hyperbolic regression of the ratio of Basmati to non-Basmati peak areas. Assessments were made using error uncertainty, standard error at the agreed limit of adulteration, and 95% confidence intervals for five example data sets. The linear regression of the ratio of peak areas to the ratio of content proportions was found to give the most precise calibration and thus enhanced quantification of the level of adulteration of Basmati rice with non-Basmati rice.
18608510	A monoclonal antibody against zearalenone (ZEA) was produced and used successfully to develop a direct competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (DC-ELISA) for the analysis of ZEA in cereals. This DC-ELISA had a limit of detection of 0.15 +/- 0.02 microg l(-1) and an IC50 value of 1.13 +/- 0.16 microg l(-1). Matrix interference was minimized by dilution of the sample extract before ELISA assays. Aqueous methanol (80%) gave good extraction efficiencies, and the recovery from spiked rice, barley, and corn samples averaged between 87 and 112%. Although ZEA was detected in seven (9%) of 80 rice samples and in eight (16%) of 50 barley samples, the concentration of ZEA in samples was around or below the limit of detection of DC-ELISA. Among 38 corn samples, ZEA was detected in nine (24%) samples in the range 41.0-909.8 microg kg(-1). Re-analysis of the ELISA-positive corn samples by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) confirmed that seven (18%) corn samples were positive. The ZEA results for corn showed very good agreement between DC-ELISA and a commercial AgraQant zearalenone kit (r2 = 0.98). Thus, the monoclonal antibody-based DC-ELISA could be applied to the preliminary screening of ZEA contamination when analysis of a large sample number is needed.
18608779	The leaves of Saussurea triangulata (Compositae) have been eaten with rice as a wrapping vegetable for preventing neuro-aging. However, the components responsible for the neuroprotective effects of S. triangulata still remain unidentified. In the process of investigating the neuroprotective activity of S. triangulata, we found that a methanol extract of S. triangulata exhibited significant protection against glutamate-induced toxicity in primary cultured rat cortical cells. Three quinic acid derivatives were isolated from the n-BuOH fraction of S. triangulata. Among these three quinic acid derivatives, methyl 5-caffeoylquinic acid (3) exhibited significant neuroprotective activities against glutamate-induced toxicity exhibiting cell viability of about 50%, at concentrations ranging from 0.1 microM to 10 microM. Therefore, the neuroprotective effect of S. triangulata might be due to the inhibition of glutamate-induced toxicity by the quinic acid derivatives from S. triangulata.
1860977	Forty lactating Holstein cows in early to midlactation were used in a randomized complete block design to measure the effects of the following diets on milk casein. Treatments were four complete rations fed for ad libitum intake consisting of 1) 60% concentrate, 10% alfalfa hay, and 30% corn silage; 2) 45% concentrate, 10% alfalfa hay, 30% corn silage, and 15% whole cottonseed; 3) 60% concentrate, 5% alfalfa hay, 20% corn silage, and 15% whole cottonseed; and 4) 45% concentrate, 10% alfalfa hay, 30% corn silage, and 15% rice bran. Least squares means for daily DM intake all were significantly different and were 3.51, 3.90, 3.28, and 3.74% BW, respectively. Cows fed diet 3 had higher arterial glucose and insulin and venous insulin. Least squares means were significantly different for milk yield, 30.1, 31.4, 28.4, and 31.6 kg/d; for milk protein, 3.30, 3.13, 3.48, and 3.12%; and for casein N, .376, .358, 3.73, and .330, respectively. However, milk protein and casein N yields were similar for all cows. The diet that contained the highest percentage of starch did not result in a significantly higher percentage of casein N in the milk but had the lowest milk production. Both whole cottonseed and rice bran, substituted for concentrate, depressed milk protein percentage.
18610844	Genes of Arabidopsis thaliana, Orysa sativa, Caenorhabditis elegans, Homo sapiens have been studied by computer analysis. The average intron and exon lengths in genes of these organisms decreases with increase of intron number in genes. The length of introns and exons in A. thaliana and O. sativa genes is change with increase of intron number in genes by high coefficient of correlation. Linear dependence between the sum of exon lengths and intron number in genes increased proportionally to number of gene introns. The average length of introns and genes of human depend on density of genes in DNA.
18612237	The brown planthopper (BPH) is a major insect pest in rice, and damages these plants by sucking phloem-sap and transmitting viral diseases. Many BPH resistance genes have been identified in indica varieties and wild rice accessions, but none has yet been cloned. In the present study we report fine mapping of the region containing the Bph1 locus, which enabled us to perform marker-aided selection (MAS). We used 273 F8 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between Cheongcheongbyeo, an indica type variety harboring Bph1 from Mudgo, and Hwayeongbyeo, a BPH susceptible japonica variety. By random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis using 656 random 10-mer primers, three RAPD markers (OPH09, OPA10 and OPA15) linked to Bph1 were identified and converted to SCAR (sequence characterized amplified region) markers. These markers were found to be contained in two BAC clones derived from chromosome 12: OPH09 on OSJNBa0011B18, and both OPA10 and OPA15 on OSJNBa0040E10. By sequence analysis of ten additional BAC clones evenly distributed between OSJNBa0011B18 and OSJNBa0040E10, we developed 15 STS markers. Of these, pBPH4 and pBPH14 flanked Bph1 at distances of 0.2 cM and 0.8 cM, respectively. The STS markers pBPH9, pBPH19, pBPH20, and pBPH21 co-segregated with Bph1. These markers were shown to be very useful for marker-assisted selection (MAS) in breeding populations of 32 F6 RILs from a cross between Andabyeo and IR71190, and 32 F5 RILs from a cross between Andabyeo and Suwon452.
18612241	Recent molecular and genetic studies in rice, a short-day plant, have elucidated both conservation and divergence of photoperiod pathway genes and their regulators. However, the biological roles of rice genes that act within the autonomous pathway are still largely unknown. In order to better understand the function of the autonomous pathway genes in rice, we conducted molecular genetic analyses of OsFVE, a rice gene homologous to Arabidopsis FVE. OsFVE was found to be ubiquitously expressed in vegetative and reproductive organs. Overexpression of OsFVE could rescue the flowering time phenotype of the Arabidopsis fve mutants by up-regulating expression of the SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO1 (SOC1) and down-regulating FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) expression. These results suggest that there may be a conserved function between OsFVE and FVE in the control of flowering time. However, OsFVE overexpression in the fve mutants did not rescue the flowering time phenotype in in relation to the response to intermittent cold treatment.
18613602	The insecticidal effect of spinosad dust, a formulation that contains 0.125% spinosad, was evaluated against adults of Sitophilus oryzae (L.) and Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) at three temperature levels (20, 25, and 30 degrees C) and four commodities (wheat, Triticum aestivum L.; barley, Hordeum vulgare L.; rice, Oryza sativa L.; and maize, Zea mays L.). For this purpose, quantities of the above-mentioned grains were treated with spinosad at two dose rates (20 and 50 ppm of the formulation, corresponding to 0.025 and 0.06 ppm AI, respectively), and mortality of the exposed adults in the treated grains was measured after 7 and 14 d, whereas progeny production was assessed 65 d later. Generally, for both species, mortality increased with dose, exposure interval, and temperature. For S. oryzae, adult survival and progeny production were lower on wheat than the other grains. After 14 d of exposure, mortality of S. oryzae adults on wheat treated with 50 ppm ranged between 61 and 98%, whereas in the other three commodities it did not exceed 42%. Mortality of R. dominica after 14 d on grains treated 50 ppm ranged between 91 and 100%. For this species, progeny production from exposed parental adults was low in all commodities regardless of temperature. Results indicate that spinosad dust can be used as an alternative to traditional grain protectants, but its effectiveness is highly determined by the target species, commodity, dose, and temperature.
18613606	Infestation of pouch-packaged spaghetti by Sitophilus oryzae (L.) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) was observed in Japan in May 2006. It was suggested that 30% of all shipped pasta products sustain damage to the packages heat-sealed before reaching retail stores. Hence, we investigated the mechanisms by which S. oryzae and Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) adults invade pasta packaged in polypropylene pouches. In the damaged packages, both species entered through the breaks in the seal and laid their eggs on the pasta. However, in the intact packages, the adults of both species bit around air vent holes in the film, but they did not make the holes big enough for entry into the pouch. We also compared each species' developmental periods from oviposition to emergence in pasta and brown rice (Oryza spp.). The average developmental period of both species at 25 degrees C was shorter in rice than in pasta. The number of individuals emerging from brown rice was significantly higher than that from pasta. Finally, we suggested a measure to prevent infestation by insect pests in pouch-packaged pasta products.
18613992	To compare the lipid-lowering effects of an alternative regimen (lifestyle changes, red yeast rice, and fish oil) with a standard dose of a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin). This randomized trial enrolled 74 patients with hypercholesterolemia who met Adult Treatment Panel III criteria for primary prevention using statin therapy. All participants were randomized to an alternative treatment group (AG) or to receive simvastatin (40 mg/d) in this open-label trial conducted between April 1, 2006, and June 30, 2006. The alternative treatment included therapeutic lifestyle changes, ingestion of red yeast rice, and fish oil supplements for 12 weeks. The simvastatin group received medication and traditional counseling. The primary outcome measure was the percentage change in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). Secondary measures were changes in other lipoproteins and weight loss. There was a statistically significant reduction in LDL-C levels in both the AG (-42.4%+/-15%) (P<.001) and the simvastatin group (-39.6%+/-20%) (P<.001). No significant differences were noted between groups. The AG also demonstrated significant reductions in triglycerides (-29% vs -9.3%; 95% confidence interval, -61 to -11.7; P=.003) and weight (-5.5% vs -0.4%; 95% confidence interval, -5.5 to -3.4; P<.001) compared with the simvastatin group. Lifestyle changes combined with ingestion of red yeast rice and fish oil reduced LDL-C in proportions similar to standard therapy with simvastatin. Pending confirmation in larger trials, this multifactorial, alternative approach to lipid lowering has promise for a subset of patients unwilling or unable to take statins.
18614348	Power generation from biomass is an attractive technology that utilizes agricultural residual waste. In order to explain the behavior of biomass-fired fluidized bed incinerator, biomass sources from agricultural residues (rice husk and palm kernel) were co-fired with coal in a 0.15m diameter and 2.3m high fluidized bed combustor. The combustion efficiency and carbon monoxide emissions were studied and compared with those for pure coal combustion. Co-combustion of a mixture of biomass with coal in a fluidized bed combustor designed for coal combustion increased combustion efficiency up to 20% depending upon excess air levels. Observed carbon monoxide levels fluctuated between 200 and 900 ppm with the addition of coal. It is evident from this research that efficient co-firing of biomass with coal can be achieved with minimal modifications to existing coal-fired boilers.
18614707	Thioredoxins (Trxs) constitute a family of small proteins in plants. This family has been extensively characterized in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which contains six different Trx types: f, m, x, and y in chloroplasts, o in mitochondria, and h mainly in cytosol. A detailed study of this family in the model legume Medicago truncatula, realized here, has established the existence of two isoforms that do not belong to any of the types previously described. As no possible orthologs were further found in either rice (Oryza sativa) or poplar (Populus spp.), these novel isoforms may be specific for legumes. Nevertheless, on the basis of protein sequence and gene structure, they are both related to Trxs m and probably have evolved from Trxs m after the divergence of the higher plant families. They have redox potential values similar to those of the classical Trxs, and one of them can act as a substrate for the M. truncatula NADP-Trx reductase A. However, they differ from classical Trxs in that they possess an atypical putative catalytic site and lack disulfide reductase activity with insulin. Another important feature is the presence in both proteins of an N-terminal extension containing a putative signal peptide that targets them to the endoplasmic reticulum, as demonstrated by their transient expression in fusion with the green fluorescent protein in M. truncatula or Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. According to their pattern of expression, these novel isoforms function specifically in symbiotic interactions in legumes. They were therefore given the name of Trxs s, s for symbiosis.
18614714	Manganese (Mn) deficiency is an important plant nutritional disorder in many parts of the world. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) genotypes differ considerably in their ability to grow in soils with low Mn(2+) availability. Differential genotypic Mn efficiency can be attributed to differences in Mn(2+) uptake kinetics in the low nanomolar concentration range. However, the molecular basis for these differences has not yet been clarified. We present here the identification and characterization of the first barley gene encoding a plasma membrane-localized metal transport protein able to transport Mn(2+). The gene is designated HvIRT1 (for IRON-REGULATED TRANSPORTER1) because it belongs to the ZIP gene family and has a high similarity to rice (Oryza sativa) OsIRT1. A novel yeast uptake assay based on inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry analysis of 31 different metal and metalloid ions showed that the HvIRT1 protein, in addition to Mn(2+), also transported Fe(2+)/Fe(3+), Zn(2+), and Cd(2+). Both Mn and iron deficiency induced an up-regulation of HvIRT1 in two barley genotypes differing in Mn efficiency, but the expression levels in all cases were highest (up to 40%) in the Mn-efficient genotype. The higher expression of HvIRT1 correlated with an increased Mn(2+) uptake rate. We conclude that HvIRT1 is an important component controlling Mn(2+) uptake in barley roots and contributes to genotypic differences in Mn(2+) uptake kinetics.
18617222	Mercury (Hg) is a global pollutant and poses a worldwide concern due to its high toxicity. Guizhou province is recognized as a heavily Hg-polluted area in China due to both the special geochemical background and human activities. Here an integrated overview of current knowledge on the behavior of Hg in environments, as well as human health risk with respect to Hg contaminations in Guizhou was presented. Two key anthropogenic Hg emission sources in Guizhou were coal combustion and metals smelting, which dominantly contributed to the high levels of Hg in local ecosystems and high fluxes of Hg deposition. The annual Hg emission from anthropogenic sources ranged between 22.6 and 55.5 t, which was about 6.3-10.3% of current total Hg emissions in China. Meanwhile, Hg Hg-enriched soil in the province serves an important natural Hg emission source to the ambient air. The local environment of Hg mining and zinc smelting areas are seriously contaminated with Hg. It is demonstrated that rice growing in Hg Hg-contaminated soil can accumulate methylmercury (MeHg) to a level to pose health threat to local inhabitants whose staple food is rice. Local inhabitants in Hg mining areas are exposed to Hg through inhalation of Hg vapor and consumption of rice with high level of MeHg. Rice intake is indeed the main MeHg exposure pathway to local inhabitants in Hg mining areas in Guizhou, which is contrary to the general point of view that fish and fish products are the main pathway of MeHg exposure to humans.
18617505	The structure and transport properties of pit membranes at the interface between the metaxylem and xylem parenchyma cells and the possible role of these pit membranes in solute transfer to the phloem were investigated. Electron microscopy revealed a fibrillar, almost tubular matrix within the pit membrane structure between the xylem vessels and xylem parenchyma of leaf blade bundles in rice (Oryza sativa). These pits are involved primarily with regulating water flux to the surrounding xylem parenchyma cells. Vascular parenchyma cells contain large mitochondrial populations, numerous dictyosomes, endomembrane complexes, and vesicles in close proximity to the pit membrane. Taken collectively, this suggests that endocytosis may occur at this interface. A weak solution of 5,6-carboxyfluorescein diacetate (5,6-CFDA) was applied to cut ends of leaves and, after a minimum of 30 min, the distribution of the fluorescent cleavage product, 5,6-carboxyfluorescein (5,6-CF), was observed using confocal microscopy. Cleavage of 5,6-CFDA occurred within the xylem parenchyma cells, and the non-polar 5,6-CF was then symplasmically transported to other parenchyma elements and ultimately, via numerous pore plasmodesmata, to adjacent thick-walled sieve tubes. Application of Lucifer Yellow, and, separately, Texas Red-labelled dextran (10 kDa) to the transpiration stream, confirmed that these membrane-impermeant probes could only have been offloaded from the xylem via the xylem vessel-xylem parenchyma pit membranes, suggesting endocytotic transmembrane transfer of these membrane-impermeant fluorophores. Accumulation within the thick-walled sieve tubes, but not in thin-walled sieve tubes, confirms the presence of a symplasmic phloem loading pathway, via pore plasmodesmata between xylem parenchyma and thick-walled sieve tubes, but not thin-walled sieve tubes.
18618285	Magnaporthe oryzae and Rhizoctonia solani, are among the most important pathogens of rice, severely limiting its productivity. Dm-AMP1, an antifungal plant defensin from Dahlia merckii, was expressed in rice (Oryza sativa L. sp. indica cv. Pusa basmati 1) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Expression levels of Dm-AMP1 ranged from 0.43% to 0.57% of total soluble protein in transgenic plants. It was observed that constitutive expression of Dm-AMP1 suppresses the growth of M. oryzae and R. solani by 84% and 72%, respectively. Transgenic expression of Dm-AMP1 was not accompanied by an induction of pathogenesis-related (PR) gene expression, indicating that the expression of DmAMP1 directly inhibits the pathogen. The results of in vitro, in planta and microscopic analyses suggest that Dm-AMP1 expression has the potential to provide broad-spectrum disease resistance in rice.
18618297	The synthetic cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) gene, modified according to the optimized codon usage of plant genes, was introduced into a plant expression vector and expressed under the control of the Bx17 HMW (high molecular weight) wheat endosperm-specific promoter containing an intron of the rice act1. The recombinant vector was transformed into rice plants using a biolistic-mediated transformation method. Stable integration of the synthetic CTB gene into the chromosomal DNA was confirmed by PCR amplification analysis. A high level of CTB (2.1% of total soluble protein) was expressed in the endosperm tissue of the transgenic rice plants. The synthetic CTB produced only in the rice endosperm demonstrated strong affinity for G(M1)-ganglioside, thereby suggesting that the CTB subunits formed an active pentamer. The successful expression of CTB genes in transgenic plants makes it a powerful tool for the development of a plant-derived edible vaccine.
18619303	Infrared spectroscopy technique is a rapid for the discrimination of food samples, and is widely used to detect and discriminate various beverages. This paper presents the advantages and disadvantages of techniques that have been used to discriminate alcoholic beverages, and the discriminating procedure with infrared spectroscopy technique. Applications of infrared spectroscopy technique to wine, whiskey, Japanese sake and Chinese rice wine etc. is presented too. Finally, problems in applications are analyzed, and the application of infrared spectroscopy technique to the discrimination of our traditional alcoholic beverages is prospected.
18619847	Mitogen activated protein kinase cascade plays a crucial role in various biotic and abiotic stresses, hormones, cell division and developmental processes. MAP kinase kinase being integral part of this cascade performs an important function of integrating upstream signals to mitogen activated protein kinase for further appropriate cellular responses. We here report cloning of five MAP kinase kinase members from Oryza sativa indica cultivar var. Pusa Basmati 1, namely MAP kinase kinases 1, 3, 4, 6 and 10-2. All these members, except MKK10-2 possess fully canonical motif structures of MAP kinase kinase. The deduced amino acid sequence showed changes at certain position within japonica and indica variety of rice. Analysis of transcript regulation by quantitative real time PCR revealed that these five members are differentially regulated by cold, heat, salinity and drought stresses. MAP kinase kinases 4 and 6 are strongly regulated by cold and salt stresses while MAP kinase kinase 1 is regulated by salt and drought stresses. MAP kinase kinase 10-2 is regulated only by cold stress. The study provides the indication of involvement of specific MAP kinase kinase in different abiotic stress signaling and also possible cross talks that exist during the signaling processes.
18620041	Tubby-like proteins, which are characterized by a highly conserved tubby domain, play an important role in the maintenance and function of neuronal cells during postdifferentiation and development in mammals. In additional to the tubby domain, most tubby-like proteins in plants also possess an F-box domain. Plants also appear to harbor a large number of TLP genes. To gain insight into how TLP genes evolved in plants, we conducted a comparative phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary analysis of the tubby-like protein gene family in Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar. Genomewide screening identified 11 TLP genes in Arabidopsis, 14 in rice, and 11 in poplar. Phylogenetic trees, domain organizations, and intron/exon structures classified this family into three subfamilies and indicated that species-specific expansion contributed to the evolution of this family in plants. We determined that in rice and poplar, the tubby-like protein family had expanded mainly through segmental duplication events. Tissue-specific expression analysis indicated that functional diversification of the duplicated TLP genes was a major feature of long-term evolution. Our results also demonstrated that the tubby and F-box domains had co-evolved during the evolution of proteins containing both domains.
18620402	Among cereals, only maize has not only a high amount of carotenoids, tocopherols, and oil content but also is rich in starch and protein content compared with other major food crops, such as rice and wheat. The present investigation was made primarily to assess the genetic variability for nutritionally important traits in 87 elite maize inbreds representing major heterotic groups in China. Carotenoid and tocopherol fractions were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), whereas oil, starch, and protein contents were detected by a VECTER22/N near-infrared analyzer. Significant interactions between genotypes and years were observed for all the traits. The pooled mean values of beta-carotene, beta-cryptoxanthin, alpha-carotene, lutein, zeaxanthin, and total carotenoids were 0.449, 0.876, 0.121, 5.803, 3.048, and 10.298 microg g (-1), respectively, whereas the combined mean performance of alpha-tocopherol, gamma-tocopherol, delta-tocopherol, and total tocopherols were 23.98, 32.90, 2.189, and 59.55 microg g (-1), respectively. The average protein, starch, and oil contents were observed to be 12.28, 64.51, and 3.55%, respectively. High level of heritability estimates were observed for all the traits and ranged from 65.6% (protein content) to 92.5% (alpha/gamma-tocopherol ratio). Most of the traits studied in this experiment were either significantly positive correlated or independent. The present finding exhibits substantial opportunities to the breeders for improvement of these traits in maize cultivars and also suggests further exploration of a new source of elite breeding stocks containing a high level of these nutritionally important compounds. Finally, these findings may also help in biofortification of maize.
18621171	The cave-living spider Leptyphantes sanctivincentii (Simon) (Aranea: Liniphiidae) is characterized by an extreme sexual dimorphism of its gnathocoxal glands. In the female they belong to one type, whereas three different types can be identified in the male; the most remarkable is the type III gland, singularized by the rice-shaped granules which originate from its complex patterned grains. It is likely that the secretion of the male are involved in the course of mating, either as a palp 'lubricant', or as a pheromone carrier.
18621644
18621947	Plastidial phosphorylase (Pho1) accounts for approximately 96% of the total phosphorylase activity in developing rice (Oryza sativa) seeds. From mutant stocks induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea treatment, we identified plants with mutations in the Pho1 gene that are deficient in Pho1. Strikingly, the size of mature seeds and the starch content in these mutants showed considerable variation, ranging from shrunken to pseudonormal. The loss of Pho1 caused smaller starch granules to accumulate and modified the amylopectin structure. Variation in the morphological and biochemical phenotype of individual seeds was common to all 15 pho1-independent homozygous mutant lines studied, indicating that this phenotype was caused solely by the genetic defect. The phenotype of the pho1 mutation was temperature dependent. While the mutant plants grown at 30 degrees C produced mainly plump seeds at maturity, most of the seeds from plants grown at 20 degrees C were shrunken, with a significant proportion showing severe reduction in starch accumulation. These results strongly suggest that Pho1 plays a crucial role in starch biosynthesis in rice endosperm at low temperatures and that one or more other factors can complement the function of Pho1 at high temperatures.
18621977	Gibberellins (GAs) regulate many aspects of plant development, such as germination, growth, and flowering. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) Amy32b alpha-amylase promoter contains at least five cis-acting elements that govern its GA-induced expression. Our previous studies indicate that a barley WRKY gene, HvWRKY38, and its rice (Oryza sativa) ortholog, OsWRKY71, block GA-induced expression of Amy32b-GUS. In this work, we investigated the functional and physical interactions of HvWRKY38 with another repressor and two activators in barley. HvWRKY38 blocks the inductive activities of SAD (a DOF protein) and HvGAMYB (a R2R3 MYB protein) when either of these proteins is present individually. However, SAD and HvGAMYB together overcome the inhibitory effect of HvWRKY38. Yet, the combination of HvWRKY38 and BPBF (another DOF protein) almost diminishes the synergistic effect of SAD and HvGAMYB transcriptional activators. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicate that HvWRKY38 blocks the GA-induced expression of Amy32b by interfering with the binding of HvGAMYB to the cis-acting elements in the alpha-amylase promoter. The physical interaction of HvWRKY38 and BPBF repressors is demonstrated via bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. These data suggest that the expression of Amy32b is modulated by protein complexes that contain either activators (e.g. HvGAMYB and SAD) or repressors (e.g. HvWRKY38 and BPBF). The relative amounts of the repressor or activator complexes binding to the Amy32b promoter regulate its expression level in barley aleurone cells.
18622033	Rice blast disease resistance to the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea is triggered by a physical interaction between the protein products of the host R (resistance) gene, Pi-ta, and the pathogen Avr (avirulence) gene, AVR-pita. The genotype variation and resistant/susceptible phenotype at the Pi-ta locus of wild rice (Oryza rufipogon), the ancestor of cultivated rice (O. sativa), was surveyed in 36 locations worldwide to study the molecular evolution and functional adaptation of the Pi-ta gene. The low nucleotide polymorphism of the Pi-ta gene of O. rufipogon was similar to that of O. sativa, but greatly differed from what has been reported for other O. rufipogon genes. The haplotypes can be subdivided into two divergent haplogroups named H1 and H2. H1 is derived from H2, with nearly no variation and at a low frequency. H2 is common and is the ancestral form. The leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain has a high pi(non)/pi(syn) ratio, and the low polymorphism of the Pi-ta gene might have primarily been caused by recurrent selective sweep and constraint by other putative physiological functions. Meanwhile, we provide data to show that the amino acid Ala-918 of H1 in the LRR domain has a close relationship with the resistant phenotype. H1 might have recently arisen during rice domestication and may be associated with the scenario of a blast pathogen-host shift from Italian millet to rice.
18622717	Following trauma with rice stalk to the left eye, corneal ulcer with abscess and hypopyon developed in an immunocompetent male. Direct examination of the corneal scrapings revealed septate, branched fungal hyphae. Bipolaris hawaiiensis was isolated after culture on blood agar and Sabouraud dextrose agar. Because of delay in diagnosis and appropriate treatment, the patient developed endophthalmitis needing evisceration.
18622741	QTLs for salt-tolerance (ST) related traits at the seedling and tillering stages were identified using 99 BC(2)F(8) introgression lines (IL) derived from a cross between IR64 (indica) as a recurrent parent and Binam (japonica) from Iran as the donor parent. Thirteen QTLs affecting survival days of seedlings (SDS), score of salt toxicity of leaves (SST), shoot K(+) concentration (SKC) and shoot Na(+) concentration (SNC) at the seedling stage and 22 QTLs underlying fresh weight of shoots (FW), tiller number per plant (TN) and plant height (PH) at the tillering stage were identified. Most QTLs detected at the tillering stage showed obvious differential expression to salt stress and were classified into three types based on their differential behaviors. Type I included 11 QTLs which were expressed only under the non-stress condition. Type II included five QTLs expressed in the control and the salt stress conditions, and three of them (QPh5, QPh8 and QTn9) had similar quantity and the same direction of gene effect, suggesting their expression was less influenced by salt stress. Type III included six QTLs which were detectable only under salt stress, suggesting that these QTLs were apparently induced by the stress. Thirteen QTLs affecting trait difference or trait stability of ILs between the stress and non-stress conditions were identified and the Binam alleles at all loci except QPh4, QTn2 and QFw2a decreased trait difference. The three QTLs less influenced by the stress and 13 QTLs affecting trait stability were considered as ST QTLs which contributed to ST. Comparing the distribution of QTLs detected at the seedling and tillering stages, most (69%) of them were genetically independent. Only four were the same or adjacent regions on chromosomes 1, 2, 8 and 11 harboring ST QTLs detected at the two stages, suggesting that partial genetic overlap of ST across the two stages occurs. It is likely, therefore, to develop ST rice variety for both stages by pyramiding of ST QTLs of different stages or selection against the overlapping QTLs between the two stages via marker-assisted selection (MAS).
18623251	A continuously coupled cell-free transcription-translation system was developed for the production of rice cytoplasmic aldolase, an enzyme involved in both glycolytic and gluconeogenic pathways in eukaryotic cells. The system works with a continuous flow of feeding solution containing nucleoside triphosphates and amino acids into a 1-mL reactor containing wheat-germ extract, plasmid DNA, and transcription enzyme, and continuous removal of translation product through an ultrafiltration membrane fitted in the reactor. Addition of free nucleotide primer, m(7)G(5')ppp(5')G, to this reactor was necessary for efficient transcription, thus producing biologically active mRNA for translation. The rate of aldolase synthesis was constant during the continuous translation reaction. It was observed that from 3 h onward only aldolase was synthesized by the system. After 30 h, the total amount of protein synthesized reached 205.6 microg, which is comparable with the amount synthesized (255.6 microg) in the translation system only where separately prepared capped mRNAs were added to the reactor for translation. Autoradiogram and Western blot analyses of the translated product showed a distinct band corresponding to the calculated molecular weight of the protein. These results have shown the establishment of a continuously coupled eukaryotic transcription-translation system for the expression of genes from eukaryotic cells.
18624429	A review of agronomic and genetic approaches as strategies for the mitigation of acrylamide risk in wheat and potato is presented. Acrylamide is formed through the Maillard reaction during high-temperature cooking, such as frying, roasting, or baking, and the main precursors are free asparagine and reducing sugars. In wheat flour, acrylamide formation is determined by asparagine levels and asparagine accumulation increases dramatically in response to sulfur deprivation and, to a much lesser extent, with nitrogen feeding. In potatoes, in which sugar concentrations are much lower, the relationships between acrylamide and its precursors are more complex. Much attention has been focused on reducing the levels of sugars in potatoes as a means of reducing acrylamide risk. However, the level of asparagine as a proportion of the total free amino acid pool has been shown to be a key parameter, indicating that when sugar levels are limiting, competition between asparagine and the other amino acids for participation in the Maillard reaction determines acrylamide formation. Genetic approaches to reducing acrylamide risk include the identification of cultivars and other germplasm in which free asparagine and/or sugar levels are low and the manipulation of genes involved in sugar and amino acid metabolism and signaling. These approaches are made more difficult by genotype/environment interactions that can result in a genotype being "good" in one environment but "poor" in another. Another important consideration is the effect that any change could have on flavor in the cooked product. Nevertheless, as both wheat and potato are regarded as of relatively high acrylamide risk compared with, for example, maize and rice, it is essential that changes are achieved that mitigate the problem.
18626020	Arsenic poisoning affects millions of people worldwide. Human arsenic intake from rice consumption can be substantial because rice is particularly efficient in assimilating arsenic from paddy soils, although the mechanism has not been elucidated. Here we report that two different types of transporters mediate transport of arsenite, the predominant form of arsenic in paddy soil, from the external medium to the xylem. Transporters belonging to the NIP subfamily of aquaporins in rice are permeable to arsenite but not to arsenate. Mutation in OsNIP2;1 (Lsi1, a silicon influx transporter) significantly decreases arsenite uptake. Furthermore, in the rice mutants defective in the silicon efflux transporter Lsi2, arsenite transport to the xylem and accumulation in shoots and grain decreased greatly. Mutation in Lsi2 had a much greater impact on arsenic accumulation in shoots and grain in field-grown rice than Lsi1. Arsenite transport in rice roots therefore shares the same highly efficient pathway as silicon, which explains why rice is efficient in arsenic accumulation. Our results provide insight into the uptake mechanism of arsenite in rice and strategies for reducing arsenic accumulation in grain for enhanced food safety.
18626624	We developed 74 microsatellite marker primer pairs yielding 76 polymorphic loci, specific for the short arm of rye chromosome 1R (1RS) in wheat background. Four libraries enriched for microsatellite motifs AG, AAG, AC and AAC were constructed from DNA of flow-sorted 1RS chromosomes and 1,290 clones were sequenced. Additionally, 2,778 BAC-end-sequences from a 1RS specific BAC library were used for microsatellite screening and marker development. From 724 designed primer pairs, 119 produced 1RS specific bands and 74 of them showed polymorphism in a set of ten rye genotypes. We show that this high attrition rate was due to the highly repetitive nature of the rye genome consisting of a large number of transposable elements. We mapped the 76 polymorphic loci physically into three regions (bins) on 1RS; 29, 30 and 17 loci were assigned to the distal, intercalary and proximal regions of the 1RS arm, respectively. The average polymorphism information content increases with distance from the centromere, which could be due to an increased recombination rate along the chromosome arm toward's the telomere. Additionally, we demonstrate, using the data of the whole rice genome, that the intra-genomic length variation of microsatellites correlates (r = 0.87) with microsatellite polymorphism. Based on these results we suggest that an analysis of the microsatellite length variation is conducted for each species prior to microsatellite development, provided that sufficient sequence information is available. This will allow to selectively design microsatellite markers for motifs likely to yield a high level of polymorphism.
1862689	An association of asymptomatic hyperglycemia with dietary cyanogens and socio-economic level was ascertained in 2,000 volunteers in rural communities in South-East Nigeria. The staples of the poor consisted of one or two bulky carbohydrate meals (derivatives of different species of cocoyam, cassava, yam and maize) eaten with vegetable soup in palm oil, melon seeds, snail, occasional meat and fish. The diet of the high income class included also beans, rice and more animal proteins. Alcohol (mainly palm wine) was consumed only occasionally. The subjects were divided into male and female and were age-matched into various age groups. Anthropometric data of each subject was obtained alongside the family history and socio-economic status. The subjects were further divided into low income vis-a-vis high income groups. All the subjects were normal volunteers, ambulatory, asymptomatic and free from chronic or acute illness. The fasting capillary whole blood glucose (FBG) and 2-h blood glucose following a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) of each subject were measured. The body mass index (BMI) and dental caries scoring of each subject were also determined. The FBG levels and 2-h blood glucose following OGTT were significantly elevated in all subjects particularly in the low income groups except in the under 18-year group. The increases were observed in males and females although glucose levels were lower in the female age group. However, diagnosis of impaired glucose tolerance according to WHO criteria was present in both income groups. The BMI increased as the age increased particularly in the low income groups. There was a strong relationship between age, FBG, IGT and dental caries, respectively in the population. It is concluded that there was strong relationship between poverty, asymptomatic hyperglycemia, and impaired glucose tolerance in the area where cyanogen in diet was higher while there was marginal animal protein in the diet of the poor.
18627494	The plant enzyme 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase (4CL) is part of a family of adenylate-forming enzymes present in all organisms. Analysis of genome sequences shows the presence of '4CL-like' enzymes in plants and other organisms, but their evolutionary relationships and functions remain largely unknown. 4CL and 4CL-like genes were identified by BLAST searches in Arabidopsis, Populus, rice, Physcomitrella, Chlamydomonas and microbial genomes. Evolutionary relationships were inferred by phylogenetic analysis of aligned amino acid sequences. Expression patterns of a conserved set of Arabidopsis and poplar 4CL-like acyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) genes were assayed. The conserved ACS genes form a land plant-specific class. Angiosperm ACS genes grouped into five clades, each of which contained representatives in three fully sequenced genomes. Expression analysis revealed conserved developmental and stress-induced expression patterns of Arabidopsis and poplar genes in some clades. Evolution of plant ACS enzymes occurred early in land plants. Differential gene expansion of angiosperm ACS clades has occurred in some lineages. Evolutionary and gene expression data, combined with in vitro and limited in vivo protein function data, suggest that angiosperm ACS enzymes play conserved roles in octadecanoid and fatty acid metabolism, and play roles in organ development, for example in anthers.
18628842	The goal of the Plant Ontology Consortium is to produce structured controlled vocabularies, arranged in ontologies, that can be applied to plant-based database information even as knowledge of the biology of the relevant plant taxa (e.g. development, anatomy, morphology, genomics, proteomics) is accumulating and changing. The collaborators of the Plant Ontology Consortium (POC) represent a number of core participant database groups. The Plant Ontology Consortium is expanding the paradigm of the Gene Ontology Consortium (http://www.geneontology.org). Various trait ontologies (agronomic traits, mutant phenotypes, phenotypes, traits, and QTL) and plant ontologies (plant development, anatomy [incl. morphology]) for several taxa (Arabidopsis, maize/corn/Zea mays and rice/Oryza) are under development. The products of the Plant Ontology Consortium will be open-source.
18628853	In recent months a bumper crop of genomes has been completed, including the fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) and rice (Oryza sativa). Two large-scale studies of Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein complexes provided a picture of the eukaryotic proteome as a network of complexes. Amongst the other stories of interest was a demonstration that proteomic analysis of blood samples can be used to detect ovarian cancer, perhaps even as early as stage I.
18628886	Gramene (http://www.gramene.org/) is a comparative genome database for cereal crops and a community resource for rice. We are populating and curating Gramene with annotated rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequence data and associated biological information including molecular markers, mutants, phenotypes, polymorphisms and Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL). In order to support queries across various data sets as well as across external databases, Gramene will employ three related controlled vocabularies. The specific goal of Gramene is, first to provide a Trait Ontology (TO) that can be used across the cereal crops to facilitate phenotypic comparisons both within and between the genera. Second, a vocabulary for plant anatomy terms, the Plant Ontology (PO) will facilitate the curation of morphological and anatomical feature information with respect to expression, localization of genes and gene products and the affected plant parts in a phenotype. The TO and PO are both in the early stages of development in collaboration with the International Rice Research Institute, TAIR and MaizeDB as part of the Plant Ontology Consortium. Finally, as part of another consortium comprising macromolecular databases from other model organisms, the Gene Ontology Consortium, we are annotating the confirmed and predicted protein entries from rice using both electronic and manual curation.
18628888	Deleteagene (Delete-a-gene) is a deletion-based gene knockout system for plants. To obtain deletion mutants for a specific gene, random deletion libraries created by fast neutron mutagenesis are screened by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers flanking the target gene. By adjusting the PCR extension time to preferentially amplify the deletion alleles, deletion mutants can be identified in pools of DNA samples with each sample representing more than a thousand mutant lines. In Arabidopsis, knockout plants for greater than 80% of targeted genes have been obtained from a population of 51,840 lines. A large number of deletion mutants have been identified and multiple deletion alleles are often recovered for targeted loci. In Arabidopsis, the method is very useful for targeting small genes and can be used to find deletion mutants mutating two or three tandem homologous genes. In addition, the method is demonstrated to be effective in rice as a deletion mutant for a rice gene was obtained with a similar approach. Because fast neutron mutagenesis is applicable to all plant genetic systems, Deleteagene has the potential to enable reverse genetics for a wide range of plant species.
18628891	The China Rice Functional Genomics Program (CRFGP) was initiated in 1999 by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China under the National Basic Sciences Initiative and was expected to last for an initial period of five years. The CRFGP involves 20 research groups from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and some major universities and focuses on the identification of genes controlling flowering, plant architecture, fertility, reproduction, metabolic controls and stress responses in rice through a combinatorial approach based on genetics, molecular biology and functional genomics as well as the generation of intellectual properties related to crop breeding and improvements. We will briefly describe the mission of the CRFGP as well as its recent progress.
18629160	Data from cytological and genetic mapping studies suggest that maize arose as a tetraploid. Two previous studies investigating the most likely mode of maize origin arrived at different conclusions. Gaut and Doebley proposed a segmental allotetraploid origin of the maize genome and estimated that the two maize progenitors diverged at 20.5 million years ago (mya). In a similar study, using larger data set, Brendel and colleagues suggested a single genome duplication at 16 mya. One of the key components of such analyses is to examine sequence divergence among strictly orthologous genes. In order to identify such genes, Lai and colleagues sequenced five duplicated chromosomal regions from the maize genome and the orthologous counterparts from the sorghum genome. They also identified the orthologous regions in rice. Using positional information of genetic components, they identified 11 orthologous genes across the two duplicated regions of maize, and the sorghum and rice regions. Swigonova et al. analyzed the 11 orthologues, and showed that all five maize chromosomal regions duplicated at the same time, supporting a tetraploid origin of maize, and that the two maize progenitors diverged from each other at about the same time as each of them diverged from sorghum, about 11.9 mya.
18629207	The Plant Ontology Consortium (POC) (www.plantontology.org) is a collaborative effort among several plant databases and experts in plant systematics, botany and genomics. A primary goal of the POC is to develop simple yet robust and extensible controlled vocabularies that accurately reflect the biology of plant structures and developmental stages. These provide a network of vocabularies linked by relationships (ontology) to facilitate queries that cut across datasets within a database or between multiple databases. The current version of the ontology integrates diverse vocabularies used to describe Arabidopsis, maize and rice (Oryza sp.) anatomy, morphology and growth stages. Using the ontology browser, over 3500 gene annotations from three species-specific databases, The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) for Arabidopsis, Gramene for rice and MaizeGDB for maize, can now be queried and retrieved.
18629392	The incidence of colorectal cancer (CRC) is high in the western world and low in Asia and Africa. Fibre and starch are thought to be important protective factors, with a strong inverse relationship between starch consumption and CRC incidence. Whether this is true in Asia, particularly, and Africa is debatable. Because rice is the most easily absorbed of carbohydrates, a mechanism whereby there is an increased starch load in the colon in the Asian population needs to be identified. One possible cause is subclinical malabsorption. This is linked to increased mucosal permeability and low gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, which reflects poor sanitation and water supplies with increased risk for small bowel bacterial overgrowth leading to mucosal cell damage. A potential cause of the dramatic rise in CRC incidence in Japan may relate to its equally dramatic increase in GDP per capita of 600% over 50 years. This correlation appears to be stronger than with other dietary factors including fruit, vegetables and meat. Worldwide, a close correlation exists among low GDP per capita, low CRC incidence and presumed subclinical malabsorption. All these factors combine to maintain a low incidence of CRC in poorly developed countries.
18629439	Four nonpathogenic and nontoxigenic Epicoccum nigrum strains were evaluated for their growth, morphology and pigment producing ability in three complex and one defined liquid media. Epicoccum nigrum IBT 41028 produced pigments in all the four media tested with a maximum pigment of 3.68 AU at 410 nm in M1 medium (unoptimized) containing 5 g/l yeast autolysate. The color hue of the crude pigment extracts ranged from 74 to 102 exhibiting dark orange to green-yellow color. Pelleted morphology was shown to have a positive influence on the pigment production by E. nigrum strain IBT 41028 in the liquid media, and the use of Bis-tris buffer was found to diminish or reduce the pellet formation. Since Monascus is a well known pigment producer on rice. Pigment producing ability of E. nigrum IBT 41028 was tested on rice and compared to liquid media with Monascus ruber IBT 7904 as control. Though, both genera preferred rice but E. nigrum produced 4.6 folds higher pigment in the liquid unoptimized fermentation medium compared to M. ruber. Solid phase extraction and subsequently HPLC-DAD analysis of the crude pigment extracts showed qualitative as well as quantitative variation in the pigment composition under solid and liquid cultivations.
18630604
18630745	Alternative splicing is a molecular mechanism utilized by a broad range of eukaryotes to extend the repertoire of functions encoded by single genes and to posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression. Recent analyses of expressed transcript sequences aligned to the complete genomes of Arabidopsis and rice indicate that alternative splicing in plants is prevalent and exhibits several features similar to other higher eukaryotes including mouse and human. This chapter reviews the computational strategies employed to study alternative splicing with bioinformatics tools and the recent findings from analyses performed on plants by applying such methods.
18631177	Burkholderia glumae is an emerging seed-borne rice pathogen in many areas around the world. Previous studies have demonstrated that B. glumae produces two major virulence factors: the phytotoxin toxoflavin and a secreted lipase. This synthesis of both of these factors is regulated by an N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL)-dependent, cell-density-dependent quorum-sensing regulation system. This study reports the production and secretion of two highly similar endo-polygalacturonases (designated PehA and PehB) by B. glumae. The two enzymes were purified to homogeneity and the corresponding genetic determinants were identified and characterized. When either polygalacturonase gene was inactivated, B. glumae retained rice virulence comparable to that of the wild-type parent strain. Furthermore, the role of AHL-dependent quorum sensing and of plant cell wall degradation compounds in their regulation was investigated.
18631635	Reovirus-like particles, occurring in association with viroplasms, crystalline arrays and tubules, in the cytoplasm of Cicadulina bimaculata capable of inducing wallaby ear disease in maize, were purified from the insects by differential centrifugation, treatment with the nonionic detergent, Nonidet P-40, and sucrose density gradient centrifugation. The purified particles have a double-shelled icosahedral structure about 70 nm in diameter with external projections (A spikes) about 10 nm long located at the 12 vertices. These intact particles (IPs) are morphologically similar to those of Fiji disease virus (FDV), but are more stable. Cores were produced by enzymatic digestion of IPs with alpha-chymotrypsin. The cores are icosahedra about 57 nm in diameter with projections (B spikes) located at the 12 vertices, resembling those of FDV and cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus. Immunization of a rabbit with purified IPs resulted in the production of antibodies specific to IPs, cores, and dsRNA. Immunoelectron microscopic investigations revealed that there is no relationship between this virus and FDV, maize rough dwarf, oat sterile dwarf, pangola stunt, and rice ragged stunt viruses, all members of the genus Fijivirus in the family Reoviridae. The nucleic acid extracted from partially purified virus was resolved into 10 segments by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Reovirus-like particles or viroplasms could not be detected in thin sections of maize seedlings colonized by C. bimaculata showing wallaby ear symptoms. In the light of these data the possible etiology of wallaby ear disease is discussed.
18632204	The synthesized zeolite NaY from rice husk ash (RHA) and the commercial zeolite NaY both modified with surfactants in amounts equal to 50%, 100% and 200% of their external cation exchange capacity (ECEC) were used to remove chromate and arsenate anions from aqueous solutions. While the unmodified zeolite Y had little or no affinity for the Cr(VI) and As(V) anionic species, the surfactant-modified zeolite Y (SMZY) showed significant ability to remove of these anions from the aqueous solutions. The highest chromates and arsenates adsorption efficiency was observed from solutions of pH values 3 and 8, respectively because of the dominance of the univalent species of both anions. The adsorption equilibrium data were best fitted with the Langmuir isotherm model with the highest removal capacities observed for the SMZY initially prepared considering the hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium (HDTMA) amount equal to the 100% of the ECEC of zeolite Y. Synthesized SMZY remove Cr(VI) and As(V) more than the corresponding commercial one due to its lower silica to alumina ratio. Thus, the HDTMA-covered modified zeolite Y synthesized using RHA can be used to remove Cr(VI) and As(V) from water.
18632207	Phytoextraction by hyperaccumulators has been proposed for decreasing toxic-metal concentrations of contaminated soils. However, hyperaccumulators have several shortcomings to introduce these species into Asian Monsoon's agricultural fields contaminated with low to moderate toxic-metals. To evaluate the phytoextraction potential, maize (Gold Dent), soybean (Enrei and Suzuyutaka), and rice (Nipponbare and Milyang 23) were pot-grown under aerobic soil conditions for 60d on the Andosol or Fluvisol with low to moderate copper (Cu), lead (Pb), and zinc (Zn) contamination. After 2 months cultivation, the Gold Dent maize and Milyang 23 rice shoots took up 20.2-29.5% and 18.5-20.2% of the 0.1molL(-1) HCl-extractable Cu, 10.0-37.3% and 8.5-34.3% of the DTPA-extractable Cu, and 2.4-6.5% and 2.1-5.9% of the total Cu, respectively, in the two soils. Suzuyutaka soybean shoot took up 23.0-29.4% of the 0.1molL(-1) HCl-extractable Zn, 35.1-52.6% of the DTPA-extractable Zn, and 3.8-5.3% of the total Zn in the two soils. Therefore, there is a great potential for Cu phytoextraction by the Gold Dent maize and the Milyang 23 rice and for Zn phytoextraction by the Suzuyutaka soybean from paddy soils with low to moderate contamination under aerobic soil conditions.
18632585	Methane-oxidizing bacteria (methanotrophs) attenuate methane emission from major sources, such as wetlands, rice paddies, and landfills, and constitute the only biological sink for atmospheric methane in upland soils. Their key enzyme is particulate methane monooxygenase (pMMO), which converts methane to methanol. It has long been believed that methane at the trace atmospheric mixing ratio of 1.75 parts per million by volume (ppmv) is not oxidized by the methanotrophs cultured to date, but rather only by some uncultured methanotrophs, and that type I and type II methanotrophs contain a single type of pMMO. Here, we show that the type II methanotroph Methylocystis sp. strain SC2 possesses two pMMO isozymes with different methane oxidation kinetics. The pmoCAB1 genes encoding the known type of pMMO (pMMO1) are expressed and pMMO1 oxidizes methane only at mixing ratios >600 ppmv. The pmoCAB2 genes encoding pMMO2, in contrast, are constitutively expressed, and pMMO2 oxidizes methane at lower mixing ratios, even at the trace level of atmospheric methane. Wild-type strain SC2 and mutants expressing pmoCAB2 but defective in pmoCAB1 consumed atmospheric methane for >3 months. Growth occurred at 10-100 ppmv methane. Most type II but no type I methanotrophs possess the pmoCAB2 genes. The apparent K(m) of pMMO2 (0.11 muM) in strain SC2 corresponds well with the K(m(app)) values for methane oxidation measured in soils that consume atmospheric methane, thereby explaining why these soils are dominated by type II methanotrophs, and some by Methylocystis spp., in particular. These findings change our concept of methanotroph ecology.
18632759	Gene targeting refers to the alteration of a specific DNA sequence in an endogenous gene at its original locus in the genome by homologous recombination. Through a gene-targeting procedure with positive-negative selection, we previously reported the generation of fertile transgenic rice plants with a positive marker inserted into the Adh2 gene by using an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation vector containing the positive marker flanked by two 6-kb homologous segments for recombination. We describe here that base changes within the homologous segments in the vector could be efficiently transferred into the corresponding genomic sequences of rice recombinants. Interestingly, a few sequences from the host genome were flanked by the changed sequences derived from the vector in most of the recombinants. Because a single-stranded T-DNA molecule in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is imported into the plant nucleus and becomes double-stranded, both single-stranded and double-stranded T-DNA intermediates can serve in gene-targeting processes. Several alternative models, including the occurrence of the mismatch correction of heteroduplex molecules formed between the genomic DNA and either a single-stranded or double-stranded T-DNA intermediate, are compared to explain the observation, and implications for the modification of endogenous genes for functional genomic analysis by gene targeting are discussed.
18633198	The effects of processing and cooking on the levels of pesticide residues in rice samples were investigated for 11 pesticides in pre-harvest (9 pesticides) and post-harvest (4 pesticides) samples. In the polishing process, the transfer ratio (%, total pesticide residue amount in product/that in brown rice) of rice bran ranged from 40% to 106%, and the transfer ratio of polished rice ranged from 9% to 65% in pre-harvest samples. These values varied from pesticide to pesticide. The processing factor (the concentration (mg/kg) of pesticide in product/that in the brown rice) of polished rice ranged from 0.11 to 0.73. The loss of pesticides during processing and/or cooking did not correlate to any single physical or chemical property. Investigation of changes of pesticide residues during processing and/or cooking is useful not only to establish MRLs, but also to recognize actual levels of pesticide residues in food.
18633654	Common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon) plays an important role by contributing to modern rice breeding. In this paper, we report the sequence and analysis of a 172-kb genomic DNA region of wild rice around the RM5 locus, which is associated with the yield QTL yld1.1. Comparative sequence analysis between orthologous RM5 regions from Oryza sativa ssp. japonica, O. sativa ssp. indica and O. rufipogon revealed a high level of conserved synteny in the content, homology, structure, orientation, and physical distance of all 14 predicted genes. Twelve of the putative genes were supported by matches to proteins with known function, whereas two were predicted by homology to rice and other plant expressed sequence tags or complementary DNAs. The remarkably high level of conservation found in coding, intronic and intergenic regions may indicate high evolutionary selection on the RM5 region. Although our analysis has not defined which gene(s) determine the yld1.1 phenotype, allelic variation and the insertion of transposable elements, among other nucleotide changes, represent potential variation responsible for the yield QTL. However, as suggested previously, two putative receptor-like protein kinase genes remain the key suspects for yld1.1.
18633717	A rice cell suspension culture system with the Ramy3D promoter, which is induced by sucrose starvation, has been previously utilized to produce large quantities of recombinant proteins. Although this expression system was reported previously to generate a good yield of recombinant hGM-CSF in transgenic rice cell suspension culture, rice alpha-amylase was a dominant protein, with 43% of total secreted proteins and an obstacle to the production and purification of secreted recombinant proteins in a rice cell suspension culture. In this study, an intron-containing self-complementary hairpin RNA (ihpRNA)-mediated post transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) strategy for the rice alpha-amylase gene was applied in order to overcome this problem in rice cell suspension culture systems. The reduction of the mRNA level of the rice alpha-amylase gene was verified via Northern blot analysis and siRNA, an initiator of RNA interference, was detected via an RNase protection assay. The amount of rice alpha-amylase in the culture medium was reduced to 8.2% as compared to that of the wild-type. A transgenic rice cell suspension culture expressing both the hGM-CSF and ihpRNA of the rice alpha-amylase gene demonstrated that the quantity of rice alpha-amylase was reduced to 22% and that the accumulation of hGM-CSF increased by 1.9-fold as compared to that in the transgenic cell line expressing hGM-CSF only. These results indicated that RNAi technology should be of great utility for suppressing undesirable genes, and should improve accumulation and facilitate the purification of secreted recombinant proteins in rice cell suspension cultures.
18634092	The cell cycle dependency of rice alpha-amylase production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae was investigated using synchronous and arrested cultures. The results of two separate synchronous cultures, using alpha-mating factor and a cdc28 mutant, indicated that the rice alpha-amylase-specific production rate is not constant during the cell cycle. The specific production rates during G1, S, and M phases were then ascertained by inhibiting the progression of the cell cycle using alpha-mating factor, hydroxyurea, and nocodazole, respectively. The specific production rate was found to be maximal during the M phase. The increase in the specific production rate during the M phase was confirmed from the accumulation of M-phase cells using a cdc15 mutant. The intracellular content of rice alpha-amylase was also measured during the cell cycle. Like the specific production rate, the intracellular content was found to fluctuate throughout the cell cycle, and to reach a maximum during M phase.
18634882	The synthetic gene (sPI-II) harboring the chymotrypsin (C1) and trypsin (T1) inhibitor domains of the Nicotiana alata serine proteinase inhibitor II gene has been previously expressed, and extracellular protease activity was shown to be reduced in the suspension culture medium. In this study, the sPI-II gene was introduced into transgenic rice cells expressing rhGM-CSF (recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor), in an effort to reduce protease activity and increase rhGM-CSF accumulation in the suspension culture medium. The integration and expression of the introduced sPI-II gene in the transgenic rice cells were verified via genomic DNA PCR amplification and Northern blot analysis, respectively. Relative protease activity was found to have been reduced and rhGM-CSF production was increased 2-fold in the co-transformed cell suspension culture with rhGM-CSF and the sPI-II gene, as compared with that observed in the transformed cell suspension culture expressing rhGM-CSF only. These results indicate that a transformed plant cell suspension culture system expressing the proteinase inhibitor can be a useful tool for increasing recombinant protein production.
18635770
18636372	One new steroid alkaloid, 12beta-hydroxylveratroylzygadenine (1) and four known compounds, verdine (2), jervine (3), veramarine (4), and veratroylzygadenine (5), have been isolated from the roots and rhizomes of Veratrum nigrum L. processed by rice vinegar. Their structures were established through a combined analysis of physicochemical properties and spectroscopic evidence. The assay results revealed that compounds 1, 4, and 5 exhibited cell toxicity against human HL-60 cells with IC50 values 52.67, 52.90, and 56.51 micromol/l, respectively.
18637329	A compartmented soil-glass bead culture system was used to investigate characteristics of arsenic accumulation in iron plaque and in mature rice plants irrigated using water with arsenic in greenhouse. Arsenic was supplied as a solution of Na3AsO4 * 12H2O at the following stages: tillering, stem elongation, booting, flowering and grain filling. The whole plant was separated into four parts and As concentrations were analyzed in DCB (dithionite-citrate-bicarbonate)-extraction, root, straw, rice husk and grain respectively. The results show that irrigation-water with arsenic has no significant effect on biomass of straw and grain. Arsenic concentrations are distributed in different components of mature rice with the ranking of iron plaque > root > straw > husk > grain. Arsenic in straw and grain just derive from soil in control, and derive from soil and irrigation-water in arsenic treatment. About 76.5% and 71.0% of total arsenic in rice straw are from soil for lines of YY-1 and 94D-64 respectively. There is no significant difference between two lines. However, about 33.6% of total arsenic in grain of YY-1 comes from irrigation-water with arsenic, and only 15.2% of total arsenic in grain of 94D1-64 is from irrigation-water with arsenic. There is a significant difference between YY-1 and 94D-64. Arsenic concentrations in rice grain are lower than the food safety limitation in China (0.7 mg x kg(-1)).
18637359	CO2 fluxes in rice paddy ecosystem in subtropical hilly region were measured continuously using eddy covariance technique. The objectives were to investigate the responses of CO2 fluxes to light intensity and temperature in the paddy ecosystem. Results showed a rectangular hyperbolic light-response function could be used to describe the relationship of CO2 flux and photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD). The absolute values of CO2 fluxes increased with the increment of PPFD. When PPFD was higher than 1000 micromol/(m2 x s), the maximum was observed. CO2 fluxes responded differently to light between early and late rice. Values of quantum yield of late rice (0.0465-0.0999 micromol/micromol) were general higher than that of early rice (0.0176-0.0541 micromol/micromol). Moreover, the quantum yield and the maximum rate of photosynthesis assimilation in the blooming stage were higher than that in tillering and ripening stages. In nighttime, respiration from soil and plants (ecosystem respiration, Reco) changed exponentially with the increase of soil temperature at the depth of 5 cm (T5), 10 cm (T10), and 20 cm (T20), respectively. Whereas, T5 was more feasible than others to be considered as the temperature parameter for Reco calculation. During early rice growing season, Reco was more sensitive to temperature change than that during late rice growing season.
18637360	The ammonia volatilization on the Typic Gleyi-stagnic Anthrosol with application of common urea and controlled release urea (LP-S100) fertilizers in the rice seasons in paddy soil of Taihui region of China was modeled by Jayaweera-Mikkelsen model. Results showed great difference of ammonia volatilization from two type fertilizers was detected with lysimeter experiment in the rice season. Nitrogen loss via ammonia volatilization after common urea application with conventional ways was 29%-35%, while only 5% of controlled release urea-N was volatilized. The Jayaweera-Mikkelsen model was over estimated the total amount of ammonia volatilization in the whole season, and great deviation from the measured data was obvious for the higher volatilization from common urea fertilizer. The estimated data were 2.95-4.19 times of the measures one for common urea treatments, while they were 1.19-1.40 times of those measured for LP-S100 treatments. The order of magnitude quotient was one of the indicators to evaluate the model estimation. The value of it was 0.8, which indicated the estimation of the model need improvement. Though sensitive analysis for the five parameters in the model was tested and amended the parameter of the concentration of NH4+ -N, a limited term was inducted in the model operation. The amended model got better results as the ratio of estimation to measured data was decreased to 1.12-1.28. The alga activity in the paddy field influenced ammonia volatilization and might make the failure of the model estimation of the original model.
18637791	Recent studies with the high-tillering mutants in rice (Oryza sativa), the max (more axillary growth) mutants in Arabidopsis thaliana and the rms (ramosus) mutants in pea (Pisum sativum) have indicated the presence of a novel plant hormone that inhibits branching in an auxin-dependent manner. The synthesis of this inhibitor is initiated by the two CCDs [carotenoid-cleaving (di)oxygenases] OsCCD7/OsCCD8b, MAX3/MAX4 and RMS5/RMS1 in rice, Arabidopsis and pea respectively. MAX3 and MAX4 are thought to catalyse the successive cleavage of a carotenoid substrate yielding an apocarotenoid that, possibly after further modification, inhibits the outgrowth of axillary buds. To elucidate the substrate specificity of OsCCD8b, MAX4 and RMS1, we investigated their activities in vitro using naturally accumulated carotenoids and synthetic apocarotenoid substrates, and in vivo using carotenoid-accumulating Escherichia coli strains. The results obtained suggest that these enzymes are highly specific, converting the C27 compounds beta-apo-10'-carotenal and its alcohol into beta-apo-13-carotenone in vitro. Our data suggest that the second cleavage step in the biosynthesis of the plant branching inhibitor is conserved in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species.
18637891
18638416	A primary reason for using two-color microarrays is that the use of two samples labeled with different dyes on the same slide, that bind to probes on the same spot, is supposed to adjust for many factors that introduce noise and errors into the analysis. Most users assume that any differences between the dyes can be adjusted out by standard methods of normalization, so that measures such as log ratios on the same slide are reliable measures of comparative expression. However, even after the normalization, there are still probe specific dye and slide variation among the data. We define a method to quantify the amount of the dye-by-probe and slide-by-probe interaction. This serves as a diagnostic, both visual and numeric, of the existence of probe-specific dye bias. We show how this improved the performance of two-color array analysis for arrays for genomic analysis of biological samples ranging from rice to human tissue. We develop a procedure for quantifying the extent of probe-specific dye and slide bias in two-color microarrays. The primary output is a graphical diagnostic of the extent of the bias which called ECDF (Empirical Cumulative Distribution Function), though numerical results are also obtained. We show that the dye and slide biases were high for human and rice genomic arrays in two gene expression facilities, even after the standard intensity-based normalization, and describe how this diagnostic allowed the problems causing the probe-specific bias to be addressed, and resulted in important improvements in performance. The R package LMGene which contains the method described in this paper has been available to download from Bioconductor.
18639481	It has been shown that the tensor calculation is very sensitive to the presence of noise in the acquired images, yielding to very low quality Diffusion Tensor Images (DTI) data. Recent investigations have shown that the noise present in the Diffusion Weighted Images (DWI) causes bias effects on the DTI data which cannot be corrected if the noise characteristic is not taken into account. One possible solution is to increase the minimum number of acquired measurements (which is 7) to several tens (or even several hundreds). This has the disadvantage of increasing the acquisition time by one (or two) orders of magnitude, making the process inconvenient for a clinical setting. We here proposed a turn-around procedure for which the number of acquisitions is maintained but, the DWI data are filtered prior to determining the DTI. We show a significant reduction on the DTI bias by means of a simple and fast procedure which is based on linear filtering; well-known drawbacks of such filters are circumvented by means of anisotropic neighborhoods and sequential application of the filter itself. Information of the first order probability density function of the raw data, namely, the Rice distribution, is also included. Results are shown both for synthetic and real datasets. Some error measurements are determined in the synthetic experiments, showing how the proposed scheme is able to reduce them. It is worth noting a 50% increase in the linear component for real DTI data, meaning that the bias in the DTI is considerably reduced. A novel fiber smoothness measure is defined to evaluate the resulting tractography for real DWI data. Our findings show that after filtering, fibers are considerably smoother on the average. Execution times are very low as compared to other reported approaches which allows for a real-time implementation.
18639953	Mucin-type O-glycosylation has been well characterized in mammalian systems but not in plants. In this study, the purified alcohol-soluble, non-reduced protein (prolamin) fraction from rice seed was investigated for the occurrence of O-linked oligosaccharides. As storage prolamins are unlikely to be O-glycosylated, any O-glycosylation found was likely to belong to co-extracted proteins, whether because of association with the protein body or solubility. SDS-PAGE and MS analyses revealed 14 and 16kDa protein families in fractions that bound to the lectins peanut agglutinin (PNA), Vicia villosa lectin (VVL) and Jacalin, indicative of the presence of O-linked saccharides. Enzymatic cleavage, fluorescent labeling and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis demonstrated a peak consistent with Gal-beta-(1-->3)-GalNAc, with similar MS/MS fragmentation. Additionally, upon chemical analysis, a GlcNAc-containing O-linked carbohydrate moiety was discovered. Protein blotting with anti-O-GlcNAc antibody (clone CTD110.6) was positive in a subpopulation of the 14kDa alcohol-soluble protein fraction, but a hot capping experiment was negative. Therefore, the GlcNAc residue in this case is unlikely to be terminal. Additionally, a positive reaction with CTD110.6mAb cannot be taken as absolute proof of O-GlcNAc modification and further confirmatory experiments should be employed. We hypothesize that O-glycosylation may contribute to protein functionality or regulation. Further investigation is required to identify the specific proteins with these modifications. This 'reverse' approach could lead to the identification of proteins involved in mRNA targeting, signaling, translation, anchoring or maintenance of translational quiescence and may be applied to germinating rice seed extracts for further elucidation of protein function and regulation.
18639954	High hydrostatic pressure (HHP) is an extreme thermal-physical stress affecting multiple cellular activities. Recently, we found that HHP treatment caused various physiological changes in rice. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of plant response to HHP, we constructed forward and reverse subtracted cDNA libraries of rice seeds treated with 75MPa hydrostatic pressure for 12h by suppression subtractive hybridization in combination with mirror orientation selection. Of 97 clones isolated through microarray dot-blot and sequenced, 45 were unique genes. Among these 45 unique cDNAs, 29 clones showed significant sequence similarity to known genes, 12 were homologous to genes with unknown function, and the remaining 4 clones did not match any known sequences. Most of the genes with known function were involved in metabolism, defense response, transcriptional regulation, transportation regulation, and signal transduction. To our knowledge, this is the first gene expression analysis of rice in response to HHP. The expression profiles of the genes identified in this study provide useful information regarding molecular processes, including alteration of metabolism and adaptation response caused by HHP.
18640289	The African malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae is undergoing speciation, being split into the M and S molecular forms. Speciation is the main process promoting biological diversity, thus, new vector species might complicate disease transmission. Genetic differentiation between the molecular forms has been extensively studied, but phenotypic differences between them, the evolutionary forces that generated divergence, and the mechanisms that maintain their genetic isolation have only recently been addressed. Here, we review recent studies suggesting that selection mediated by larval predation and competition promoted divergence between temporary and permanent freshwater habitats. These differences explain the sharp discontinuity in distribution of the molecular forms between rice fields and surrounding savanna, but they can also explain the concurrent cline between humid and arid environments due to the dependence on permanent habitats in the latter. Although less pronounced, differences in adult body size, reproductive output, and longevity also suggest that the molecular forms have adapted to distinct niches. Reproductive isolation between the molecular forms is achieved by spatial swarm segregation, although within-swarm mate recognition appears to play a role in certain locations. The implications of these results to disease transmission and control are discussed and many of the gaps in our understanding are highlighted.
18640729	Effects of two fertilizers, NH(4)Cl and KCl, on the growth of the edible cyanobacterium Ge-Xian-Mi (Nostoc) and four other cyanobacterial strains were compared at pH 8.3+/-0.2 and 25 degrees C. Their growth was decreased by at least 65% at 10 mmol L(-1) NH(4)Cl but no inhibitory effect was observed at the same level of KCl. Meanwhile, the strains exhibited a great variation of sensitivity to NH(4)(+) toxicity in the order: Ge-Xian-Mi>Anabaena azotica FACHB 118>Microcystis aeruginosa FACHB 905>M. aeruginosa FACHB 315>Synechococcus FACHB 805. The 96-h EC(50) value for relative growth rate with regard to NH(4)(+) for Ge-Xian-Mi was 1.105 mmol L(-1), which was much less than the NH(4)(+) concentration in many agricultural soils (2-20 mmol L(-1)). This indicated that the use of ammonium as nitrogen fertilizer was responsible for the reduced resource of Ge-Xian-Mi in the paddy field. After 96 h exposure to 1 mmol L(-1) NH(4)Cl, the photosynthetic rate, F(v)/F(m) value, saturating irradiance for photosynthesis and PSII activity of Ge-Xian-Mi colonies were remarkably decreased. The chlorophyll synthesis of Ge-Xian-Mi was more sensitive to NH(4)(+) toxicity than phycobiliproteins. Thus, the functional absorption cross section of Ge-Xian-Mi PSII was increased markedly at NH(4)Cl levels >or=1 mmol L(-1) and the electron transport on the acceptor side of PSII was significantly accelerated by NH(4)Cl addition >or=3 mmol L(-1). Dark respiration of Ge-Xian-Mi was significantly increased by 246% and 384% at 5 and 10 mmol L(-1) NH(4)Cl, respectively. The rapid fluorescence rise kinetics indicated that the oxygen-evolving complex of PSII was the inhibitory site of NH(4)(+).
18641631	Mutation hotspots are commonly observed in genomic sequences and certain human disease loci, but general mechanisms for their formation remain elusive. Here we investigate the distribution of single-nucleotide changes around insertions/deletions (indels) in six independent genome comparisons, including primates, rodents, fruitfly, rice and yeast. In each of these genomic comparisons, nucleotide divergence (D) is substantially elevated surrounding indels and decreases monotonically to near-background levels over several hundred bases. D is significantly correlated with both size and abundance of nearby indels. In comparisons of closely related species, derived nucleotide substitutions surrounding indels occur in significantly greater numbers in the lineage containing the indel than in the one containing the ancestral (non-indel) allele; the same holds within species for single-nucleotide mutations surrounding polymorphic indels. We propose that heterozygosity for an indel is mutagenic to surrounding sequences, and use yeast genome-wide polymorphism data to estimate the increase in mutation rate. The consistency of these patterns within and between species suggests that indel-associated substitution is a general mutational mechanism.
18641903	The virulence of Hirsutella thompsonii (Fischer) to Brevipalpus phoenicis (Geijskes) was evaluated in laboratory, grown on complete and solid culture media (MC-S); complete and liquid culture media (MC-L); rice (APC) and powdered rice (APC-SM). Adults were confined to arenas prepared with citrus leaves in acrylic dishes containing water-agar. Conidial suspensions were prepared at different concentration (3.2 x 10(5) to 1 x 10(7) spores/ml) and applied on mites to establish the table curve-response on fourth day. For field evaluation, adults were maintained in arenas prepared with fruits which were placed in plants. In this test, four treatments were tried: H. thompsonii cultured on rice (APC) at two concentrations (20 kg/ha and 10 kg/ha), H. thompsonii produced by liquid fermentation (MC-L) (5 L/ha) and control (sterile water). Adult survival, number of eggs and nymphs per fruit were observed 10 and 20 days after the fungus application. The lowest LC25 value calculated was from pathogen produced in MC-S (1.9 x 10(5) conidia/ml).The LC25 values calculated to APC and APC-SM did not differ statistically. The LC25 values to MC-L and MC-S were 1.9 x 10(6) infective cells/ml and 2.2 x 10(5) conidia/ml. In the field, concentration and time to death differed between treatments and control. The applications resulted in reduction of adult survival and number of eggs.
18642025	Rice is one of the most important food crops. The temperature-sensitive genic male sterility (TGMS) system provides a great potential for improving food production by hybrids. The use of TGMS system is simple, inexpensive, effective, and eliminates the limitations of the conventional three-line system. A rice gene, tms2, generated by irradiation of a japonica variety has been reported to control TGMS in several rice lines. Previous studies reported genetic markers linked to this gene, and the gene was transferred to an aromatic Thai cultivar. Using information obtained from published databases, we located positions of the reported genetic markers flanking the gene in rice genomic sequences, and developed gene-based markers located inside the flanking markers for polymorphism detection. We found that inbred indica tms2 mutant plants contain about 1 Mb of japonica DNA, in which at least 70 kb was deleted. Using RT-PCR for expression analysis, four genes out of seven genes annotated as expressed proteins located inside the deletion showed expression in panicles. These genes could be responsible for TGMS phenotypes of tms2. In addition, we developed gene-based markers flanking and inside the deletion for selecting the tms2 gene in breeding populations. By genotyping 102 diverse rice lines including 38 Thai rice lines, 5 species of wild rice, and 59 exotic rice lines including TGMS lines and cultivars with desirable traits, a gene-based marker located inside the deletion and one flanking marker were shown to be highly specific for the tms2 mutant.
18642926	Liquors from rice husk autohydrolysis, containing xylooligosaccharides (XOS), other saccharides, and nonsaccharide compounds, were refined by membrane processing to increase the proportion of substituted XOS in refined liquors. XOS were assayed for composition and degree of polymerization (DP) distribution and hydrolyzed with commercial enzymes for obtaining XOS with DP in the range of 2-6. Nanofiltered, hydrolyzed liquors were subjected to ion exchange processing to yield a final product containing monosaccharides, XOS (accounting for 55.6% of the nonvolatile solutes), and other nonvolatile compounds. The solution obtained after enzymatic hydrolysis with commercial xylanases (in which 82.8% of XOS were in the DP range of 2-6) was examined as a medium for promoting the growth of Bifidobacterium adolescentis CECT 5781, B. longum CECT 4503, B. infantis CECT 4551, and B. breve CECT 4839. The growth rate of B. adolescentis (0.58 h(-1)) was higher than the ones determined for B. longum, B. infantis, and B. breve (0.37, 0.30, and 0.40 h(-1), respectively). The percentage of total XOS consumption by B. adolescentis was 77% after 24 h, the highest percentage of utilization corresponding to xylotriose (90%), followed by xylobiose (84%), xylotetraose (83%), and xylopentaose (71%).
18643339	We study the influence of the driving rate in the two-dimensional Oslo rice pile model. We find that the usual power-law behavior of the avalanche size distribution still holds for small avalanches, independent of the driving rate. The signature of fast driving is, however, the increase of the incidence rate of large avalanches. For larger driving rates, this increase is more prominent and spreads to smaller avalanche sizes. As a result, the mass flow due to large avalanches is increased much more than would be expected from an increase in driving rate alone. Fast driving leads to a dramatic increase in devastating avalanches, just before the continuous flow regime is reached.
18643943	We aimed to establish a rice gene flow model based on (i) the Gaussian plume model, (ii) data from a three-location x 3-yr field experiment on transgene flow to common rice cultivars (Oryza sativa), male sterile (ms) lines (O. sativa) and common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon), and (iii) 32-yr historical meteorological data collected from 38 meteorological stations in southern China during the rice flowering period. The concept of the gene flow coefficient (GFC) is proposed; that is, the ratio of the transgene flow frequency (G%) obtained from field experiments to the aggregated pollen dispersal frequency (P%) calculated based on the pollen dispersal model. The maximum distances of gene flow (MDGF) to traditional rice cultivars, ms lines, and common wild rice at a threshold value of either 1.0 or 0.1% were determined. The MDGF and its spatial distribution in southern China show that the gene flow pattern is significantly affected by the monsoon climate, the topography, and the outcrossing ability of recipients. We believe that the information provided in this study will be useful for the risk assessment of transgenic rice in other rice-growing regions.
18643954	Methylated inositol D-pinitol (3-O-methyl-D-chiro-inositol) accumulates in a number of plants naturally or in response to stress. Here, we present evidence for accumulation and salt-enhanced synthesis of pinitol in Porteresia coarctata, a halophytic wild rice, in contrast to its absence in domesticated rice. A cDNA for Porteresia coarctata inositol methyl transferase 1 (PcIMT1), coding for the inositol methyl transferase implicated in the synthesis of pinitol has been cloned from P. coarctata, bacterially overexpressed and shown to be functional in vitro. In silico analysis confirms the absence of an IMT1 homolog in Oryza genome, and PcIMT1 is identified as phylogenetically remotely related to the methyl transferase gene family in rice. Both transcript and proteomic analysis show the up-regulation of PcIMT1 expression following exposure to salinity. Coordinated expression of L-myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase (PcINO1) gene along with PcIMT1 indicates that in P. coarctata, accumulation of pinitol via inositol is a stress-regulated pathway. The presence of pinitol synthesizing protein/gene in a wild halophytic rice is remarkable, although its exact role in salt tolerance of P. coarctata cannot be currently ascertained. The enhanced synthesis of pinitol in Porteresia under stress may be one of the adaptive features employed by the plant in addition to its known salt-exclusion mechanism.
18643988	Small interfering RNA (siRNA) is an essential factor for epigenetic modification of the genome. Recent studies have suggested that endogenous siRNAs induce DNA methylation, chromatin modification and chromatin inactivation at homologous sequences. We have shown that siRNAs targeted to promoter regions of endogenous rice genes induce strong DNA methylation of the targeted sequences, but transcriptional gene silencing is rarely observed. Here, an analysis of epigenetic modifications induced by RNAi targeted to transcribed regions of endogenous rice genes shows that the effects of siRNA are gene-specific, but that they tend to induce higher de novo DNA methylation of CpG dinucleotides than of other cytosines. However, loss of OsMet1 expression by RNAi did not significantly affect levels and patterns of de novo DNA methylation or post-transcriptional mRNA suppression. We also showed that sequence-specific de novo DNA methylation extended both 5' and 3' of the targeted sequences, but there was no significant extension of siRNA signals either 5' or 3'. These results suggest that exogenous siRNAs are strong inducers of de novo DNA methylation in transcribed sequences of rice endogenous genes, but are insufficient to induce heterochromatin formation.
18644665	Spatial distribution of arsenic (As) concentrations of irrigation water, soil and plant (rice) in a shallow tube-well (STW) command area (8 ha), and their relationship with Fe, Mn and P were studied. Arsenic concentrations of water in the 110 m long irrigation channel clearly decreased with distance from the STW point, the range being 68-136 microg L(-1). Such decreasing trend was also noticed with Fe and P concentrations, but the trend for Mn concentrations was not remarkable. Concerning soil As, the concentration showed a decreasing tendency with distance from the pump. The NH(4)-oxalate extractable As contributed 36% of total As and this amount of As was associated with poorly crystalline Fe-oxides. Furthermore only 22% of total As was phosphate extractable so that most of the As was tightly retained by soil constituents and was not readily exchangeable by phosphate. Soil As (both total and extractable As) was significantly and positively correlated with rice grain As (0.296+/-0.063 microg g(-1), n=56). Next to drinking water, rice could be a potential source of As exposure of the people living in the As affected areas of Bangladesh.
18644715	The isolation of oryzanol from crude rice bran oil (RBO) was achieved by a two-step crystallization process. In the first crystallization, oryzanol was concentrated in the liquid phase along with free fatty acid (FFA), monoacylglycerol (MG), squalene, tocols, and phytosterols, whereas the solid phase contained mainly triacylglycerol (TG) and steryl esters. Oryzanol-rich product obtained from the first crystallization was subjected to the second crystallization where the oryzanol-rich product was kept at room temperature (20.5+/-1.5 degrees C) for 24h. Hexane was added as anti-solvent to the oryzanol-rich product and kept at 5+/-1 degrees C for another 48h. Parameters that affect the isolation of oryzanol from crude RBO were systematically investigated. Under optimal operation conditions, oryzanol with purity and recovery of 93-95% and 59%, respectively, was obtained from RBO with an initial FFA content of ca. 5%.
18644781	The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a flavivirus replicating in the cytoplasm of infected cells. The HCV genome is a single-stranded RNA encoding a polyprotein that is cleaved by cellular and viral proteases into 10 different products. While the structural proteins core protein, envelope protein 1 (E1) and E2 build up the virus particle, most nonstructural (NS) proteins are required for RNA replication. One of the least studied proteins is NS2, which is composed of a C-terminal cytosolic protease domain and a highly hydrophobic N-terminal domain. It is assumed that the latter is composed of three trans-membrane segments (TMS) that tightly attach NS2 to intracellular membranes. Taking advantage of a system to study HCV assembly in a hepatoma cell line, in this study we performed a detailed characterization of NS2 with respect to its role for virus particle assembly. In agreement with an earlier report (Jones, C. T., Murray, C. L., Eastman, D. K., Tassello, J., and Rice, C. M. (2007) J. Virol. 81, 8374-8383), we demonstrate that the protease domain, but not its enzymatic activity, is required for infectious virus production. We also show that serine residue 168 in NS2, implicated in the phosphorylation and stability of this protein, is dispensable for virion formation. In addition, we determined the NMR structure of the first TMS of NS2 and show that the N-terminal segment (amino acids 3-11) forms a putative flexible helical element connected to a stable alpha-helix (amino acids 12-21) that includes an absolutely conserved helix side in genotype 1b. By using this structure as well as the amino acid conservation as a guide for a functional study, we determined the contribution of individual amino acid residues in TMS1 for HCV assembly. We identified several residues that are critical for virion formation, most notably a central glycine residue at position 10 of TMS1. Finally, we demonstrate that mutations in NS2 blocking HCV assembly can be rescued by trans-complementation.
18646130	Clozapine is widely used for people with schizophrenia. Although agranulocytosis, weight gain, and cardiac problems are serious problems associated with its use, hypersalivation, sometimes of a gross and socially unacceptable quantity, is also common (30-80%). To determine the clinical effects of pharmacological interventions for clozapine-induced hypersalivation. We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (March 2007), inspected references of all identified studies for further trials, contacted relevant pharmaceutical companies, drug approval agencies and authors of trials. We included randomised controlled trials comparing pharmacological interventions, at any dose and by any route of administration, for clozapine-induced hypersalivation. We extracted data independently. For dichotomous data (homogenous) we calculated relative risk (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and numbers needed to treat (NNT) on an intention-to-treat basis. We calculated weighted mean difference (WMD) for continuous data. Of the 15 trials identified, 14 were conducted in China and 14 in hospitals. The quality of reporting was poor with no studies clearly describing allocation concealment and much data were missing or unusable. All results are vulnerable to considerable bias. Most frequently the primary outcome was the diameter of the wet patch on the pillow. Antimuscarinics (astemizole, diphenhydramine, propantheline, doxepin) were the most commonly evaluated drugs. For the outcome of 'no clinically important improvement' astemizole and diphenhydramine were more effective than placebo (astemizole: n=97, 2 RCTs, RR 0.61 CI 0.47 to 0.81 NNT 3 CI 2 to 5; diphenhydramine: n=131, 2 RCTs, RR 0.43 CI 0.31 to 0.58, NNT 2 CI 1.5 to 2.5), but the doses of astemizole used were those that can cause toxicity. Data involving propantheline were heterogeneous (I2= 86.6%), but both studies showed benefit over placebo. Adverse effects were poorly recorded. Of the other interventions, oryzanol (rice bran oil and rice embryo oil extract) showed benefit over the antimuscarinic doxepin in terms of 'no clinically important change' (n=104, 1 RCT, RR 0.45 CI 0.27 to 0.75, NNT 4 CI 2 to 7). The Chinese medicine suo quo wan (comprises spicebush root, Chinese yam and bitter cardamom) showed benefit over doxepin (n=70, 1 RCT, RR 'no clinically important change' 0.31 CI 0.16 to 0.59, NNT 3 CI 1.5 to 3.7). There are currently insufficient data to confidently inform clinical practice. The limitations of these studies are plentiful and the risk of bias is high. These trials, however, are invaluable guides for current and future study design. Well conducted randomised trials are possible. Some may be underway. Current practice outside of well designed randomised trials should be clearly justified.
18646532	To study the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localization of CpTI protein in sck transgenic rice. Immunohistochemistry and immune electron microscopy (IEM) were used to observe the localization of CpTI protein of root and leaf cell in sck transgenic rice. The endoplasmic reticulum localization of CpTI protein were observed by IEM. Colloidal gold granules were found in ER of root cell of sck transgenic rice and in root cells of the control plant colloidal gold granules were not observed. In plastid, chloroplast, cytoplasm, karyon of root cell of sck transgenic rice, a little of colloidal gold granules were also observed. The ER in the leaf cell was not observed because of the presence of vacuole, but some colloidal gold granules in cytoplasm, karyon and plastid of leaf cells were observed in sck transgenic rice. Colloidal gold granules were not observed in leaf cells of the control plant. It seemed that CpTI protein was mainly localized in the ER of the cell from sck transgenic rice and in other organelles there was also a little CpTI protein.
18646758	A simple and rapid procedure for the separation and determination of inorganic, methyl, and ethyl mercury compounds was described using liquid chromatography (LC) followed by vapor generation inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (VG-ICP-MS). Well resolved chromatograms were obtained within 5 min by reversed-phase liquid chromatography with a C8 column as the stationary phase and a pH 4.7 solution containing 0.5% v/v 2-mercaptoethanol and 5% v/v methanol as the mobile phase. The separated mercury compounds were converted to mercury vapors by an in situ nebulizer/vapor generation system for their introduction into ICP. The concentrations of NaBH4 and HNO3 required for vapor generation were also optimized. The method was applied for the speciation of mercury in reference materials NIST SRM 1568a Rice Flour and NIST SRM 1567a Wheat Flour and also rice flour and wheat flour samples purchased locally. The accuracy of the procedure was verified by analyzing the certified reference material NRCC DOLT-3 Dogfish Liver for methyl mercury. Precision between sample replicates was better than 13% for all the determinations. The detection limits of the mercury compounds studied were in the range 0.003-0.006 ng Hg mL(-1) in the injected solutions, which correspond to 0.02-0.06 ng g(-1) in original flour samples. A microwave-assisted extraction procedure was adopted for the extraction of mercury compounds from rice flour, wheat flour, and fish samples using a mobile phase solution.
18647164	Pythium insidiosum is an aquatic oomycete that causes severe segmental thickening of the canine gastrointestinal (GI) tract, resulting in weight loss, vomiting, diarrhea, and death. Infection in dogs previously has been observed primarily in the southeastern United States. To describe the clinicopathologic and epidemiologic findings associated with GI pythiosis in 10 dogs from California. Dogs were initially identified on the basis of supportive clinical findings and routine histology. Pythiosis was confirmed in each dog with at least one of the following: immunoblot serology, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay serology, immunohistochemistry, and culture followed by species-specific polymerase chain reaction, rRNA gene sequencing, or both. Between September 2003 and December 2006, GI pythiosis was confirmed in 1 dog from central California and 9 dogs that lived within a 30-mile radius of Davis, CA. Seven of 8 dogs for which environmental data were available had frequent access to flooded rice fields or other water sources. Esophageal lesions were present in 2 of 10 dogs. Common laboratory findings included eosinophilia (7/9), hypoalbuminemia (9/9), and hyperglobulinemia (8/9). Median survival time was 26.5 days (range, 0-122 days), and the disease was ultimately fatal in all 10 dogs. The geographic distribution of pythiosis has widened in recent years to include the western United States. Factors that may have contributed to this change include altered rice-farming practices and landscape irrigation. Veterinarians in California should be familiar with the clinicopathologic features associated with GI pythiosis to aid in early diagnosis and effective treatment.
18647406	The MYB superfamily constitutes the most abundant group of transcription factors described in plants. Members control processes such as epidermal cell differentiation, stomatal aperture, flavonoid synthesis, cold and drought tolerance and pathogen resistance. No genome-wide characterization of this family has been conducted in a woody species such as grapevine. In addition, previous analysis of the recently released grape genome sequence suggested expansion events of several gene families involved in wine quality. We describe and classify 108 members of the grape R2R3 MYB gene subfamily in terms of their genomic gene structures and similarity to their putative Arabidopsis thaliana orthologues. Seven gene models were derived and analyzed in terms of gene expression and their DNA binding domain structures. Despite low overall sequence homology in the C-terminus of all proteins, even in those with similar functions across Arabidopsis and Vitis, highly conserved motif sequences and exon lengths were found. The grape epidermal cell fate clade is expanded when compared with the Arabidopsis and rice MYB subfamilies. Two anthocyanin MYBA related clusters were identified in chromosomes 2 and 14, one of which includes the previously described grape colour locus. Tannin related loci were also detected with eight candidate homologues in chromosomes 4, 9 and 11. This genome wide transcription factor analysis in Vitis suggests that clade-specific grape R2R3 MYB genes are expanded while other MYB genes could be well conserved compared to Arabidopsis. MYB gene abundance, homology and orientation within particular loci also suggests that expanded MYB clades conferring quality attributes of grapes and wines, such as colour and astringency, could possess redundant, overlapping and cooperative functions.
1864841	Oryzacystatin, a cysteine proteinase inhibitor occurring in rice seeds, contains a particular glycine residue (Gly5) near the NH2-terminal position, and the sequence Gln53-Val54-Val55-Ala56-Gly57 in a central part of the molecule. Both are conserved among most members of the cystatin superfamily. We have found from Escherichia coli expression studies that the NH2-terminal 21 residues of oryzacystatin are not essential for its papain-inhibitory activity, and that the conserved pentapeptide region may be indispensable [Abe, K., Emori, Y., Kondo, H., Arai, S., & Suzuki, K. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 7655-7659]. Here we present more detailed data based on quantitative analyses of the inhibitory activities of NH2- and COOH-terminally truncated oryzacystatin and site-directed mutants at the Gln-Val-Val-Ala-Gly region. The data indicate the following results. (1) The truncated mutants lacking the NH2-terminal 21 residues or the COOH-terminal 11 residues exhibit potent papain-inhibitory activity equivalent to the activity of wild oryzacystatin. (2) However, neither the mutant lacking the NH2-terminal 38 residues nor that lacking the COOH-terminal 35 residues is completely able to inhibit papain. (3) Site-directed mutants at the Gln residue of the Gln-Val-Val-Ala-Gly region have drastically reduced papain-inhibitory activities: the Gln----Pro mutant is completely inactive and the Gln----Leu mutant has an approximately 150 times higher Ki value than wild-type oryzacystatin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
18649319	Rare earth elements (REEs) have beneficial influence on plant growth and are widely used in agriculture practice, but little is known about behavior of the REEs on mitochondria in plant cells. Thermogenic metabolic curves were determined by the ampoule method at 303 K using a TAM air isothermal microcalorimeter in mitochondria isolated from indice rice 9311 (Oryza sativa L.), and the effect of Ce(III) on mitochondrial metabolism was investigated. By analyzing the obtained heat flux curves, the crucial parameters such as activity recovery rate constant (k) and maximum heat power (P(m)) were investigated. Application of Ce3+ in concentrations ranging from 0 to 120 microg/ml significantly increased k and P(m) values, with the maximum reaching 261 and 180% of the control, respectively. Concentrations from 140 to 150 microg/ml had the opposite effect. These results were consistent with previous reports on the effects of REEs on plant growth. It was concluded that the Ce(III)-induced change of mitochondrial metabolic activity is a possible mechanism by which Ce(III) influenced indice rice 9311 growth.
18649547	Responses of sugar metabolism during germination of rice (O. sativa), wheat (T. aestivum) and rape (B. chinensis var. oleifera) seeds to simulated acid rain (pH 2.0, pH 2.5, pH 3.0, pH 3.5, pH 4.0, pH 4.5, pH 5.0) were investigated. The purpose was to clarify the mechanism of acid rain affecting seed germination. The results show that the alpha-amylase activity, contents of soluble sugar and reducing sugar of the rice, wheat and rape seeds decrease with increased stress level (pH 5.0 - 2.0), and are lower than CK. The response order of three indexes to stress level of acid rain is that rice (pH 3.5 - 4.0/53.88% - 77.7%) is smaller than wheat (pH 3.5 - 4.5/58.60% - 89.41%), and rape (pH 4.0 - 5.0/60.14% - 100%) is the smallest, alpha-amylase activity, contents of soluble sugar and reducing sugar of rice increase with prolonged stress time, but the three indexes of wheat and rape increase at first, and then decrease. In the same stress time (3 - 7 d), the three indexes of the three species for all treatment groups are lower than CK, and decrease with increased stress level. The stress time when the maximum damage of a-amylase activity, contents of soluble sugar and reducing sugar appeared is that rice (7 d, 7 d, 7 d) > wheat (7 d, 6 d, 5 d) > rape (3 d, 7 d, 5 d). Responses of three indexes to stress level and stress time of acid rain show that the ability of sugar metabolism resisting acid rain is that rice is stronger than wheat and rape is the worst, and the difference in sugar metabolism of 3 species is one of the internal reasons why the germination indexes behave differently.
18649574	In this study, the biodegradation characteristics of six plant-based wastes were compared in anaerobic batch vial systems. The highest gas accumulation and methane (CH4) concentrations (approximately 70%) were observed in samples containing copy paper, newspaper and box paper materials, whereas the lowest were observed in samples containing wood and leaves. In samples containing steamed rice and fruit, the methanogenic activity was inhibited, which resulted in acid accumulation. The high biodegradation activity of newspaper samples was also associated with high adenosine triphosphate levels and dehydrogenase activity. No significant differences were, however, observed in the dehydrogenase activity of the samples. High bioluminescence was observed in samples with high biodegradation activities, indicative of low toxicity.
18649576	The present study aimed to develop a mathematical model of composting which, while not overlooking the fundamental principles of physical and microbiological chemistry, could be easily applied in practice and be validated by experimental data. The experimental results of the biological aerobic decomposition of a mixture consisting of rice and rice husks, could be explained in terms of the parameter aggregation model, assuming a set of pseudo-first-order reactions in series, in which a hydrolysis step is followed by a biochemical oxidative step with formation of compost, biomass and biological gases (CO2, O2). The corresponding kinetic parameters and their temperature dependence were determined. These parameters indicated that the hydrolysis step was always the slowest one, and, therefore, the overall rate-determining step. This is in substantial agreement with our experimental observations of a non-dependency of the overall rate on the oxygen concentration, and suggests that rather than using mesophilic and thermophilic bacteria and fungi for seeding or accelerating the process, adequate hydrolytic enzymes (or related micro-organisms) should be added, instead.
18650402	Insertions and precise eliminations of transposable elements generated numerous transposon insertion polymorphisms (TIPs) in rice (Oryza sativa). We observed that TIPs represent more than 50% of large insertions and deletions (>100 bp) in the rice genome. Using a comparative genomic approach, we identified 2,041 TIPs between the genomes of two cultivars, japonica Nipponbare and indica 93-11. We also identified 691 TIPs between Nipponbare and indica Guangluai 4 in the 23-Mb collinear regions of chromosome 4. Among them, retrotransposon-based insertion polymorphisms were used to reveal the evolutionary relationships of these three cultivars. Our conservative estimates suggest that the TIPs generated approximately 14% of the genomic DNA sequence differences between subspecies indica and japonica. It was also found that more than 10% of TIPs were located in expressed gene regions, representing an important source of genetic variation. Transcript evidence implies that these TIPs induced a series of genetic differences between two subspecies, including interrupting host genes, creating different expression forms, drastically changing intron length, and affecting expression levels of adjacent genes. These analyses provide genome-wide insights into evolutionary history and genetic variation of rice.
18650929	Methane (CH(4)) emissions from boreal wetlands show considerable seasonal variation, including small winter emissions. We addressed the seasonality of CH(4)-producing microbes by comparing archaeal communities and the rates and temperature response of CH(4) production in a boreal fen at three key phases of growing season and in winter. Archaeal community analysis by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and cloning of 16S ribosomal DNA and reverse-transcribed RNA revealed slight community shifts with season. The main archaeal groups remained the same throughout the year and were Methanosarcinaceae, Rice cluster II and Methanomicrobiales-associated Fen cluster. These methanogens and the crenarchaeal groups 1.1c and 1.3 were detected from DNA and RNA, but the family Methanosaetaceae was detected only from RNA. Differences between DNA- and RNA-based results suggested higher stability of DNA-derived communities and better representation of the active CH(4) producers in RNA. Methane production potential, measured as formation of CH(4) in anoxic laboratory incubations, showed prominent seasonality. The potential was strikingly highest in winter, possibly due to accumulation of methanogenic substrates, and maximal CH(4) production was observed at ca. 30 degrees C. Archaeal community size, determined by quantitative PCR, remained similar from winter to summer. Low production potential in late summer after a water level draw-down suggested diminished activity due to oxygen exposure. Our results indicated that archaeal community composition and size in the boreal fen varied only slightly despite the large fluctuations of methanogenic potential. Detection of mRNA of the methanogenic mcrA gene confirmed activity of methanogens in winter, accounting for previously reported winter CH(4) emissions.
18651292	Spices and herbs are extensively used in indigenous diets in tropical regions where prevalence of iron deficiency is still high. They are rich in polyphenolic compounds that are expected to inhibit iron absorption by forming iron complexes in the intestine, making dietary iron less available for absorption. The effects of six spices and herbs (chili pepper, garlic, 'Pak kyheng' (Thai leafy vegetable), shallot, tamarind, turmeric) and one mixture of spices (curry paste) on iron availability were determined by measuring the percentage dialyzable iron after addition of spices and herbs to a rice meal after simulated digestion. All tested spices and herbs contained from 0.5 to 33 mg polyphenol per meal and were potent inhibitors of iron availability (20-90%), reducing iron availability in a dose-dependent manner--with the exception of tamarind, which at 11 mg polyphenol per meal enhanced iron availability. Our findings demonstrate that culinary spices and herbs can play an important role in iron nutrition.
18652475	In 2007, it was determined that melamine, ammeline, ammelide, and cyanuric acid (abbreviated as MARC for melamine and related contaminants) had been added to wheat gluten and rice protein that were subsequently incorporated into pet food. The consumption of food tainted by MARC compounds was implicated in numerous instances of renal failure in cats and dogs. A method for the analysis of MARC compounds in kidney tissue using high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS) has been developed. MARC analytes were extracted by homogenization of kidney tissue in 50/40/10 acetonitrile/water/diethylamine. The homogenate was centrifuged, and an aliquot of supernatant was diluted with acetonitrile, concentrated, and fortified with a stable isotope-labeled analogue of melamine. Analytes were detected using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization and multiple reaction monitoring. Quantitation of positive samples was performed using the internal standard method and five-point calibration curves ranging between 50 and 1000 ng/mL of each analyte. The method was validated by analysis of replicate kidney tissue samples fortified with the individual analytes and by analysis of kidney samples fortified with melamine cyanurate powder at two different concentrations. This method was successfully used for routine postmortem diagnosis of melamine toxicosis in animals. Melamine was also detected by this method in paraffin-embedded tissue from animals suspected to have died of melamine toxicosis.
18652646	After 10-year-use of AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) technology for DNA fingerprinting and mRNA profiling, large repertories of genome- and transcriptome-derived sequences are available in public databases for model, crop and tree species. AFLP marker systems have been and are being extensively exploited for genome scanning and gene mapping, as well as cDNA-AFLP for transcriptome profiling and differentially expressed gene cloning. The evaluation, annotation and classification of genomic markers and expressed transcripts would be of great utility for both functional genomics and systems biology research in plants. This may be achieved by means of the Gene Ontology (GO), consisting in three structured vocabularies (i.e. ontologies) describing genes, transcripts and proteins of any organism in terms of their associated cellular component, biological process and molecular function in a species-independent manner. In this paper, the functional annotation of about 8,000 AFLP-derived ESTs retrieved in the NCBI databases was carried out by using GO terminology. Descriptive statistics on the type, size and nature of gene sequences obtained by means of AFLP technology were calculated. The gene products associated with mRNA transcripts were then classified according to the three main GO vocabularies. A comparison of the functional content of cDNA-AFLP records was also performed by splitting the sequence dataset into monocots and dicots and by comparing them to all annotated ESTs of Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. On the whole, the statistical parameters adopted for the in silico AFLP-derived transcriptome-anchored sequence analysis proved to be critical for obtaining reliable GO results. Such an exhaustive annotation may offer a suitable platform for functional genomics, particularly useful in non-model species. Reliable GO annotations of AFLP-derived sequences can be gathered through the optimization of the experimental steps and the statistical parameters adopted. The Blast2GO software was shown to represent a comprehensive bioinformatics solution for an annotation-based functional analysis. According to the whole set of GO annotations, the AFLP technology generates thorough information for angiosperm gene products and shares common features across angiosperm species and families. The utility of this technology for structural and functional genomics in plants can be implemented by serial annotation analyses of genome-anchored fragments and organ/tissue-specific repertories of transcriptome-derived fragments.
18653690	The disruption of K(+) transport and accumulation is symptomatic of NH(4)(+) toxicity in plants. In this study, the influence of K(+) supply (0.02-40 mM) and nitrogen source (10 mM NH(4)(+) or NO(3)(-)) on root plasma membrane K(+) fluxes and cytosolic K(+) pools, plant growth, and whole-plant K(+) distribution in the NH(4)(+)-tolerant plant species rice (Oryza sativa L.) was examined. Using the radiotracer (42)K(+), tissue mineral analysis, and growth data, it is shown that rice is affected by NH(4)(+) toxicity under high-affinity K(+) transport conditions. Substantial recovery of growth was seen as [K(+)](ext) was increased from 0.02 mM to 0.1 mM, and, at 1.5 mM, growth was superior on NH(4)(+). Growth recovery at these concentrations was accompanied by greater influx of K(+) into root cells, translocation of K(+) to the shoot, and tissue K(+). Elevating the K(+) supply also resulted in a significant reduction of NH(4)(+) influx, as measured by (13)N radiotracing. In the low-affinity K(+) transport range, NH(4)(+) stimulated K(+) influx relative to NO(3)(-) controls. It is concluded that rice, despite its well-known tolerance to NH(4)(+), nevertheless displays considerable growth suppression and disruption of K(+) homeostasis under this N regime at low [K(+)](ext), but displays efficient recovery from NH(4)(+) inhibition, and indeed a stimulation of K(+) acquisition, when [K(+)](ext) is increased in the presence of NH(4)(+).
18654831	Four crop plants Oryza sativa (rice), Solanum melongena (brinjal), Spinacea oleracea (spinach) and Raphanus sativus (radish) were grown to study the impact of secondary treated municipal waste water irrigation. These plants were grown in three plots each of 0.5 ha, and irrigated with secondary treated waste water from a sewage treatment plant. Sludge from the same sewage treatment plant was applied as manure. Cultivated plants were analyzed for accumulation of heavy metals and pesticides. Results revealed the accumulation of six heavy metals cadmium (Cd), chromium (Cr), iron (Fe), copper (Cu), nickel (Ni), and zinc (Zn) as well as two pesticides [1,1-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichloroethane; DDT] and benzene hexa chloride (BHC). Order of the plants for the extent of bioaccumulation was S. oleracea > R. sativus > S. melongena > O. sativa. The study has shown the secondary treated waste water can be a source of contamination to the soil and plants.
18655589	Field experiments were conducted on the double rice cropping paddy field in red soil area to evaluate the influence of cropping system innovation on soil profile form and related soil characteristics. Four cropping systems of rice-rice-Chinese Milkvetch (Astragalus sinicus Linn.), forage, paddy-upland rotation, and upland were substituted for the double rice cropping system. The results indicated that compared with those under double rice cropping system, the thickness of cultivated horizon under upland cropping system increased by 4 cm, that of plow pan declined by 2 cm, > 2 mm aggregates in wet-sieved particle-size fractions increased by 6.94%, wet-sieved mean-mass diameter increased by 0.37 mm, contents of humic acid carbon and fulvic acid carbon increased by 0.15 and 0.49 g kg(-1), respectively, and quotient of aggregates water stability was 0.78 times higher. Under paddy-upland rotation, the quotient of aggregates water stability was higher (95.86), while soil nutrient contents changed a little. Under rice-rice-Chinese Milkvetch system, soil organic matter content increased by 1.3 g kg(-1), quotient of aggregates water stability declined by 8.82, but other parameters had less changes. Under forage system, the thickness of cultivated and transitional horizons increased by 2 cm and 9 cm, respectively, quotient of aggregates water stability increased by 1.39, while the contents of soil organic matter and total potassium decreased by 5.6 and 2.8 g kg(-1), respectively. Among all test cropping systems, forage system had the greatest changes in soil characteristics. It was completely feasible to substitute the local double rice cropping system for paddy-upland rotation or upland cropping, particularly in the areas where full irrigation was not available. However, attention should be paid to the decrease of soil potassium content when the cropping system innovation was practiced.
18655596	Based on a multilevel model, the expansion mechanism of farmland in Horqin steppe of northern China was studied at field, household, and village levels. The results showed that there was no significant difference among households in reclaiming the steppe. The households with extra labor force and relatively higher basic education tended to reclaim steppe if they lived mainly on cultivation and animal breeding, while those with large livestock number were not favorable for farmland expansion. Corn cultivation was more sensitive to economic situations, while rice planting was more constrained by natural conditions. Therefore, relatively good basic education might favor the conversion of grassland to farmland, while transferring residual labor forces might detain the trend.
18656444	Brassinolide is known to be the most biologically active compound among more than 50 brassinosteroids identified to date. However, brassinolide has not been detected in rice. To determine if this is due to the lack of the brassinolide synthase function in the rice CYP85A enzyme, we performed analyses to study metabolic conversion using a yeast strain harboring the rice CYP85A1 gene. In repeated feeding tests where the substrates were used, the biosynthetic pathway progressed only up to the synthesis of castasterone, not of brassinolide. Phylogenetic analysis of the CYP85 amino acid sequences revealed that duplication of the CYP85 gene has occurred in most dicotyledonous plant genomes; further, 1 of the 2 copies of CYP85 is evolving to develop a brassinolide synthase function. However, only a single copy of this gene is found in the currently available genome sequences of graminaceous plants; this is a likely explanation for the absence of an endogenous pool of brassinolide in rice plants.
18656573	Dietary intake is an important determinant of obesity and numerous chronic health conditions. A healthful diet is an essential component of chronic disease self-management. Researchers have indicated that the healthfulness of the Latino diet deteriorates during the acculturation process. However, given the many operationalizations of acculturation, conclusive evidence regarding this relationship is still lacking. This comprehensive and systematic literature review examines the relationship between acculturation and diet by examining national, quantitative, and qualitative studies involving Latinos living in the United States. Studies of diet included those that examined dietary intake using one of several validated measures (eg, food frequency questionnaire, 24-hour dietary recall, or dietary screener) and/or dietary behaviors (eg, away-from-home-eating and fat avoidance). Articles were identified through two independent searches yielding a final sample of 34 articles. Articles were abstracted by two independent reviewers and inter-rater reliability was assessed. Analyses examined the extent to which various measures of acculturation (ie, acculturation score, years in the United States, birthplace, generational status, and language use) were associated with macronutrient intake, micronutrient intake, and dietary behaviors. Several relationships were consistent irrespective of how acculturation was measured: no relationship with intake of dietary fat and percent energy from fat; the less vs more acculturated consumed more fruit, rice, beans, and less sugar and sugar-sweetened beverages. Additional observed relationships depended on the measure of acculturation used in the study. These findings suggest a differential influence of acculturation on diet, requiring greater specificity in our dietary interventions by acculturation status.
18656676	Two ferric-ion-based total antioxidant capacity methods: 1,10-phenanthroline (Phen) and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) were used for determination of antioxidant capacities (AC) of the acetonic and methanolic extracts of vegetable oils. The obtained mean Phen and FRAP values for acetonic extracts of olive oils, rapeseed, rice and four sunflower oils (39.3-336.5 and 39.5-339.6 micromol Fe/100g) were higher than for methanolic extracts (22.8-307.3 and 23.5-300.1 micromol Fe/100g). However, antioxidant capacities of methanolic extracts of corn oil, blended oils and two sunflower oils with garden green flowers (56.5-312.9 and 53.9-306.5 micromol Fe/100g for Phen and FRAP methods, respectively) were higher than for acetonic extracts of these oils (54.2-249.2 and 52.9-244.7 micromol Fe/100g for Phen and FRAP methods, respectively). There is a linear and significant correlation between these two analytical methods (r=0.9989 and 0.9986 for acetonic and methanolic extracts). Also, total phenolic compounds (TPC) in the studied oils correlated with their antioxidant capacities determined by Phen and FRAP methods (r=0.9012, 0.7818 and 0.8947, 0.7830 for acetonic and methanolic extracts, respectively). The comparable precision (R.S.D.=0.8-4.6%, 0.9-4.9% and 0.7-4.0%, 0.6-4.0% for acetonic and methanolic extracts, respectively) and sensitivity (epsilon=1.27 x 10(4), 1.11 x 10(4) and 2.62 x 10(4)dm(3)mol(-1)cm(-1)) for the proposed Phen and the modified FRAP methods, demonstrate the benefit of the Phen method in the routine analysis of antioxidant capacities of vegetable oils.
18657212	Striga is a parasitic weed attacking mainly maize, sorghum, millet and cowpea. Studying the interaction between rice and Striga is valuable since rice is a model monocot. In this paper, the susceptibility of different rice cultivars to S. hermonthica was tested and quantitative trait loci (QTL) for Striga tolerance mapped on the Bala x Azucena F(6) population. Seven rice cultivars were grown with and without S. hermonthica for 14 wk. For the mapping experiment, 115 recombinant inbred lines (RILs), along with Azucena and Bala, were grown with and without Striga for 11 wk. Rice cultivars tested had different susceptibilities to Striga, ranging from highly susceptible to completely resistant. Azucena and Bala differed in the speed of Striga emergence and the impact on host growth. A genomic region between positions 139 and 166 cM on chromosome 1 was identified containing strong QTL (LOD = 4.9-15.7) for all traits measured. This indicates that genes for Striga tolerance exist in rice germplasm and the mapped QTL can be further studied to promote understanding of the nature of resistance/tolerance and breeding for Striga-resistant crop plants.
18657232	Delta(3),Delta(2)-enoyl CoA isomerase (ECI) is an enzyme that participates in the degradation of unsaturated fatty acids through the beta-oxidation cycle. Three genes encoding Delta(3),Delta(2)-enoyl CoA isomerases and named AtECI1, AtECI2 and AtECI3 have been identified in Arabidopsis thaliana. When expressed heterologously in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, all three ECI proteins were targeted to the peroxisomes and enabled the yeast Deltaeci1 mutant to degrade 10Z-heptadecenoic acid, demonstrating Delta(3),Delta(2)-enoyl CoA isomerase activity in vivo. Fusion proteins between yellow fluorescent protein and AtECI1 or AtECI2 were targeted to the peroxisomes in onion epidermal cells and Arabidopsis root cells, but a similar fusion protein with AtECI3 remained in the cytosol for both tissues. AtECI3 targeting to peroxisomes in S. cerevisiae was dependent on yeast PEX5, while expression of Arabidopsis PEX5 in yeast failed to target AtECI3 to peroxisomes. AtECI2 and AtECI3 are tandem duplicated genes and show a high level of amino acid conservation, except at the C-terminus; AtECI2 ends with the well conserved peroxisome targeting signal 1 (PTS1) terminal tripeptide PKL, while AtECI3 possesses a divergent HNL terminal tripeptide. Evolutionary analysis of ECI genes in plants revealed several independent duplication events, with duplications occurring in rice and Medicago truncatula, generating homologues with divergent C-termini and no recognizable PTS1. All plant ECI genes analyzed, including AtECI3, are under negative purifying selection, implying functionality of the cytosolic AtECI3. Analysis of the mammalian and fungal genomes failed to identify cytosolic variants of the Delta(3),Delta(2)-enoyl CoA isomerase, indicating that evolution of cytosolic Delta(3),Delta(2)-enoyl CoA isomerases is restricted to the plant kingdom.
1865878	Barley nitrate reductase cDNA and genomic clones were isolated by homology with the barley nitrate reductase cDNA clone bNRp10 and sequenced. This is the first reported analysis of a full-length nitrate reductase gene and its corresponding cDNA in the same species. The longest cDNA clone extends to within 9 bp of the ATG start codon and the sequence is similar to that reported for the higher plant NR sequences. As expected, the amino acid sequence of barley nitrate reductase is more related closely to the rice (84% homology) than to the Arabidopsis (62%) sequence. Four different polyA addition sites were identified from sequence analysis of nine barley NR cDNA clones. A 7.3 kb region of a genomic recombinant lambda clone was subcloned as two contiguous BamHI fragments into p Bluescript, designated pMJ7 and pMJ8, and sequenced. These clones include the entire nitrate reductase coding region, one large intron, 2.7 kb of untranslated sequence 5' to the translation start codon and 0.25 kb 3' to the translation termination codon. The mRNA cap site was identified as a cytosine, 111 bases upstream of the ATG translation start codon. The putative CAAT and TATA boxes were identified at -115 and -33 bp, respectively, with the mRNA cap site designated as +1. The barley nitrate reductase gene coding region strongly favors G or C in the third codon position.
18660495	Higher plants are aerobic organisms which suffer from the oxygen deficiency imposed by partial or total submergence. However, some plant species have developed strategies to avoid or withstand severe oxygen shortage and, in some cases, the complete absence of oxygen (tissue anoxia) for considerable periods of time. Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the few plant species that can tolerate prolonged soil flooding or complete submergence thanks to an array of adaptive mechanisms. These include an ability to elongate submerged shoot organs at faster than normal rates and to develop aerenchyma, allowing the efficient internal transport of oxygen from the re-emerged elongated shoot to submerged parts. However, rice seeds are able to germinate anaerobically by means of coleoptile elongation. This cannot be explained in terms of oxygen transport through an emerged shoot. This review provides an overview of anoxic rice germination that is mediated through coleoptile rather than root emergence. Although there is still much to learn about the biochemical and molecular basis of anaerobic rice germination, the ability of rice to maintain an active fermentative metabolism (i.e. by fuelling the glycolytic pathway with readily fermentable carbohydrates) is certainly crucial. The results obtained through microarray-based transcript profiling confirm most of the previous evidence based on single-gene studies and biochemical analysis, and highlight new aspects of the molecular response of the rice coleoptile to anoxia.
18661246	The study was conducted to determine the effect of supplementation with rice bran (RB) and /or noug seed (Guizotia abyssinica) meal (NSM) on feed intake, digestibility, and body weight (BW) change in hay based feeding of Farta sheep. Twenty five yearling Farta rams with a mean initial BW of 19.23 +/- 0.28 kg were used in randomized complete block design arranged into five blocks of five animals. The five dietary treatments that consisted of hay alone (T(1)), hay + RB (T(2)), hay + mixture of RB and NSM at a ratio of 1:2 (T(3)), hay + mixture of RB and NSM at a ratio of 2:1 (T(4)) and hay + NSM (T(5)) were randomly assigned to each sheep within a block. The supplements were daily offered at 300 g dry matter (DM) head(-1) in two equal parts at 800 and 1600 h. Supplementation improved the total DM and acid detergent fiber (ADF) intake (P < 0.05), organic matter (OM) intake (P < 0.01), crude protein (CP) intake (P < 0.001). The apparent digestibility of DM in T(5) was higher (P < 0.05) than in T(1) and T(2) and that of T(4) was also higher (P < 0.05) than in T(1). The apparent digestibility of CP in T(5) and T(4) were higher (P < 0.001) than in T(1) and T(2) and that of T(3) and T(2) were also higher (P < 0.001) than for T(1). The BW gain of experimental sheep was improved (P < 0.01) by supplementation with NSC (T(5)) and/or its mixtures with RB (T(3) and T(4)). The results of the study showed that supplementation with either of both mixtures of NSM and RB at 43% of total DM intake promoted better feed intake, digestibility and BW gain in Farta sheep.
18663452	Co-transformation of Oryza sativa L. var. Pusa Basmati1 was done using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain harbouring a single-copy cointegrate vector and a multi-copy binary vector in the same cell. The T-DNA of the cointegrate vector pGV2260::pSSJ1 carried the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hph) and beta-glucuronidase (gus) genes. The binary vector pCam-chi11, without a plant selectable marker gene, harboured the rice chitinase (chi11) gene under maize ubiquitin promoter. Co-transformation of the gene of interest (chi11) with the selectable marker gene (hph) occurred in 4 out of 20 T(0) plants (20%). Segregation of hph from chi11 was accomplished in two (CoT6 and CoT23) of the four co-transformed plants in the T(1) generation. The selectable marker-free (SMF) lines CoT6 and CoT23 harboured single copies of chi11. Homozygous SMF T(2) plants were established in the lines CoT6 and CoT23. Northern and Western blot analysis of the homozygous SMF lines showed high level of transgene expression. In comparison to untransformed controls, chitinase specific activity was 66- and 22-fold higher in the homozygous SMF T(2) plants of lines CoT6 and CoT23, respectively. The lines CoT6 and CoT23 exhibited 38 and 40% reduction in sheath blight disease, respectively.
18663592	The concentrations of ammonium NH4+, nitrate NO3-, and nitrite NO2- ions were recorded along with ammonia (NH(3)) emission from a fertilized rice field located in the Kwangju province in South Korea over a period of 4 months (June to October 2006). The highest magnitude of NH(3) flux was 20,754 microg m(-2) h(-1), while the average flux value over the entire sampling period was 2,395 microg m(-2) h(-1). The highest ionic concentrations were 1.67, 0.44, and 0.71 ppm for NH4+, NO3-, and NO2- ions, respectively. Possible effects of soil pH on NH(3) fluxes were detected, as they concurrently exhibited a gradual and periodic change during the sampling period. Positive correlations existed between concentrations of NH4+ and NO2- ions and the soil pH. Positive correlations also existed between NH(3) emission flux and ambient (and water) temperatures. Results indicated that fertilizer application to rice can lead to significant emission of NH(3) along with NH4+ and NO3- ions.
18664295	Many plant beta-galactosidases (Bgals) have been well characterized and their deduced biological functions mainly involve degradation of structural pectins, xyloglucans or arabinogalactoproteins in plant cell walls. However, gene multiplicity in glycosyl hydrolase family 35 (GH35), to which these proteins belong, implies diverse functions. In this study, the gene multiplicity, apparent evolutionary relationships and transcript expression of rice Bgal genes were examined, in order to predict their biological functions. Fifteen rice Bgal genes were identified in the plant genome, one of which encodes a protein similar to animal Bgals (OsBgal9), and the remaining 14 fall in a nearly plant-specific subfamily of Bgals. The presence of both classes of Bgals in bryophytes, as well as vascular plants, suggests both gene lineages were present early in plant evolution. All 15 proteins were predicted to contain secretory signal sequences, suggesting they have secretory pathway or external roles. RT-PCR and database analysis found two distinct lineages to be expressed nearly exclusively in reproductive tissues and to be closely related to Arabidopsis Bgals expressed most highly in flower and pollen. On the other hand, OsBgal6 is expressed primarily in young vegetative tissues, and alternative splicing in panicle prevents its production of full-length protein in this reproductive tissue. OsBgal11 also showed alternative splicing to produce different length proteins. OsBgal13 produced by recombinant expression in Escherichia coli hydrolyzed alpha-L-arabinoside in addition to beta-D-galactoside and beta-(1-->3)-, beta-(1-->4)- and beta-(1-->6)- linked galacto-oligosaccharides. Rice GH35 contains fifteen genes with a diversity of protein sequences, predicted locations and expression and splicing patterns that suggest that OsBgals enzymes may play a variety of roles in metabolism of cell wall polysaccharides, glycoproteins and glycolipids.
18665259	Buruli ulcer disease (BU), due to the bacteria Mycobacterium ulcerans, represents an important and emerging public health problem, especially in many African countries. Few elements are known nowadays about the routes of transmission of this environmental bacterium to the human population. In this study, we have investigated the relationships between the incidence of BU in Cte d'Ivoire, western Africa, and a group of environmental variables. These environmental variables concern vegetation, crops (rice and banana), dams, and lakes. Using a geographical information system and multivariate analyses, we show a link between cases of BU and different environmental factors for the first time on a country-wide scale. As a result, irrigated rice field cultures areas, and, to a lesser extent, banana fields as well as areas in the vicinity of dams used for irrigation and aquaculture purposes, represent high-risk zones for the human population to contract BU in Cte d'Ivoire. This is much more relevant in the central part of the country. As already suspected by several case-control studies in different African countries, we strengthen in this work the identification of high-risk areas of BU on a national spatial scale. This first study should now be followed by many others in other countries and at a multi-year temporal scale. This goal implies a strong improvement in data collection and sharing in order to achieve to a global picture of the environmental conditions that drive BU emergence and persistence in human populations.
18665985	The mobility of the rice pesticides thiobencarb (S-[(4-chlorophenyl) methyl] diethylcarbamothioate) and fipronil ([5-amino-3-cyano-1-[2,6-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4-[(trifluoromethyl)sulfinyl]pyrazole) were investigated in the glasshouse under flooded conditions using two Australian rice-growing soils. When using leakage rates of 10 mm day(-1), less than 20% of applied thiobencarb and fipronil remained in the water column after 10 days due to rapid transfer to the soil phase. Up to 70% and 65% of the applied thiobencarb and fipronil, respectively, were recovered from the 0-1 cm layer of soils. Only 5-7% of each pesticide was recovered from the 1-2 cm layer, and less than 2% was recovered from each 1 cm layer in the 2-10 cm region of the soils. Analysis of the water leaking from the base of the soil cores showed between 5-10% of the applied thiobencarb and between 10-20% of the applied fipronil leaching from the soil cores. The high levels of pesticide in the effluent was attributed to preferential flow of pesticide-laden water via soil macropores resulting from the wetting and drying process, worm holes and root channels.
18666619	The main source of air and soil contamination with arsenic compounds is mining industry of coal and oil as well as mining and metallurgy of non-ferrous metals. The cases of long-drawn arsenism were observed among inhabitants of regions where such industry is well developed. The long term, regular exposure to arsenic compounds both food and inhalation manifests in skin lesion and troubles in functioning of blood, neural and breathing systems. The purpose of this study is the latest literature review concerning contamination of air, soil and potable water with arsenic. The content of arsenic in the comestible produce varies and depends on kind ant origin of the produce. The biggest amount of arsenic in the daily ration came from potable water. The determined amount of arsenic ranged within 1 -5300 microg/L comes from countries where earth water is used as drinking water, which means that allowable contents specified by FAO/WHO experts is exceeded more than one hundred times. The common inhabitant of developing countries consumes 400-650 g of rice weekly. The average contamination of rice with arsenic is 0.57-0.69 mg/kg, which means the intake of this element on the level 30%-45% PTWI (Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake). The relatively small arsenic contents is characteristic for vegetables and fruits (<0.1 mg/kg), higher amount is observed in leaf vegetables (up to 0.6 mg/kg) and potatoes (0.86 mg/kg). The similarly low arsenic contents (<0.1 mg/kg) is characteristic for the meat produce. Among animal produce the largest quantity of arsenic is determined in fish and seafood (1.5-11.2 mg/kg). The introduction of EU regulations in Poland resulted in resignation of the arsenic contents limitation in food, however the continues monitoring of the contamination level with arsenic compounds is necessary, particularly in the industrial areas of the country.
18666953	Two sucrose transporter (SUT) cDNAs, OsSUT2M and OsSUT5Z, were isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Sequencing results indicate they are 1,531 bp and 1,635 bp in length including complete open reading frame 1,506 bp and 1,608 bp, which encode 502 amino acids and 536 amino acids, respectively. The TopPred program suggested that both sucrose transporter proteins, OsSUT2M and OsSUT5Z, consist of potentially 12 transmembrane domains. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was carried out to investigate the gene expression patterns of OsSUT2M and OsSUT5Z. In vegetative organs, transcripts of OsSUT2M were higher in source leaf blades than in other organs at the same development stage, whereas transcripts of OsSUT5Z were less traceable in all organs investigated. In reproductive organs, both transcripts of these two genes were high in panicles from the booting stage to 7 days after flowering (DAF) and then sharply declined. The potential physiology functions of these two sucrose transporters are discussed.
18667091	Malaria transmission in most agricultural ecosystems is complex and hence the need for developing a holistic malaria control strategy with adequate consideration of socio-economic factors driving transmission at community level. A cross-sectional household survey was conducted in an irrigated ecosystem with the aim of investigating vector control practices applied and factors affecting their application both at household and community level. Four villages representing the socio-economic, demographic and geographical diversity within the study area were purposefully selected. A total of 400 households were randomly sampled from the four study villages. Both semi-structured questionnaires and focus group discussions were used to gather both qualitative and quantitative data. The results showed that malaria was perceived to be a major public health problem in the area and the role of the vector Anopheles mosquitoes in malaria transmission was generally recognized. More than 80% of respondents were aware of the major breeding sites of the vector. Reported personal protection methods applied to prevent mosquito bites included; use of treated bed nets (57%), untreated bed nets (35%), insecticide coils (21%), traditional methods such as burning of cow dung (8%), insecticide sprays (6%), and use of skin repellents (2%). However, 39% of respondents could not apply some of the known vector control methods due to unaffordability (50.5%), side effects (19.9%), perceived lack of effectiveness (16%), and lack of time to apply (2.6%). Lack of time was the main reason (56.3%) reported for non-application of environmental management practices, such as draining of stagnant water (77%) and clearing of vegetations along water canals (67%). The study provides relevant information necessary for the management, prevention and control of malaria in irrigated agro-ecosystems, where vectors of malaria are abundant and disease transmission is stable.
18667093	Upstream open reading frames (uORFs) can down-regulate the translation of the main open reading frame (mORF) through two broad mechanisms: ribosomal stalling and reducing reinitiation efficiency. In distantly related plants, such as rice and Arabidopsis, it has been found that conserved uORFs are rare in these transcriptomes with approximately 100 loci. It is unclear how prevalent conserved uORFs are in closely related plants. We used a homology-based approach to identify conserved uORFs in five cereals (monocots) that could potentially regulate translation. Our approach used a modified reciprocal best hit method to identify putative orthologous sequences that were then analysed by a comparative R-nomics program called uORFSCAN to find conserved uORFs. This research identified new genes that may be controlled at the level of translation by conserved uORFs. We report that conserved uORFs are rare (<150 loci contain them) in cereal transcriptomes, are generally short (less than 100 nt), highly conserved (50% median amino acid sequence similarity), position independent in their 5'-UTRs, and their start codon context and the usage of rare codons for translation does not appear to be important.
18667321	The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)'s Environmental Modelling for Radiation Safety (EMRAS) model evaluation programme includes a Tritium and Carbon-14 Working Group (TCWG), the goal of which is to test the performance of models for the environmental transfer. This paper describes work on two of the nine TCWG scenarios; one involved the prediction of time-dependent tritium concentrations in freshwater mussels subject to an abrupt change in ambient tritium levels and the second was concerned with the prediction of carbon-14 concentrations in rice grown in the vicinity of sources of continuous atmospheric releases.
18668227	An isocratic LC method for the determination of melamine and its degradation products (ammelide, ammeline, and cyanuric acid), used to increase the apparent protein content of rice protein concentrate, has been developed. Method development involved optimization of different RP columns, aqueous mobile phases, pH, phosphate concentration, and temperature. The optimum separation of these compounds was achieved using a Luna CN column (30 degrees C), 5 mmol L(-1) sodium phosphate (pH 5.0) as mobile phase, 1 mL min(-1) flow-rate, UV absorbance-DAD detection at 220 nm, and resorcine as internal standard; this enabled separation of these compounds with baseline resolution (values in the 2.1-10.1 range) in about 8 min. Prior to HPLC, the developed sample preparation procedure consisted in a leaching process using the above mentioned mobile phase. Method validation was carried out in rice protein concentrates in accordance with the European Commission decision 2002/657/EC criteria. For this purpose, eight mandatory performance characteristics for the conventional validation approach were determined: calibration graphs, extraction efficiencies, decision limits, detection capabilities, precision (repeatability and within-laboratory reproducibility), accuracy, selectivity, and robustness. The extraction efficiencies for these compounds were in the range 99-100% and the within-laboratory reproducibility at 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 detection capabilities concentration levels were smaller than 5, 4, and 3%, respectively. Finally, the proposed method was successfully applied to the analysis of other rice protein concentrates and several animal feed samples.
18668229	Samples of rice from Mexican and USA retail stores were analyzed for the presence of transgenic (GM) events using real-time PCR. In screening for the CaMV35S promoter sequence (35SP), positive results were found in 49 and 35% of the Mexican and American samples, respectively. In further investigations in Mexican samples, 43% were positive for P35S::bar, with two above the quantifiable limit; these were 0.07% and 0.05% GMO. Fourteen out of the sixteen positive samples were labeled as imported from the USA. In testing samples bought in American retail shops, 24% showed positive results, all below the quantifiable range. It could be deduced that P35S::bar positive samples were Liberty Link(R) (LL) rice. In distinguishing between LL601 and LL62, end-point PCR was used, corroborating the P35S::bar amplicon length difference of these events. LL62 was found in one rice sample purchased in Mexico and two in the USA samples. Its presence was verified with the 35S terminator sequence. All other LL positive samples contained LL601. None of the samples analyzed showed the presence of Bt63 rice. The LL rice varieties found have been identified as not being commercially cultivated, and so their presence requires further investigation. 35SP was also present in samples which did not have any LL rice. Maize sequences could not be detected in any of the samples; however, soybean DNA was found in Mexican and USA rice samples. The Roundup Ready(R) trait was detected in trace amounts in 16 and 6% of the rice samples bought in Mexico and the USA, respectively. Real-time PCR was shown to be the method of choice for the sensitive and rapid screening of commodities and retail samples for the detection of GM and other contamination.
18668337	The genomic upstream sequence of the rice tubulin gene OsTub6 has been cloned, sequenced and characterized. The 5'UTR sequence is interrupted by a 446 bp long leader intron. This feature is shared with two other rice beta-tubulin genes (OsTub4 and OsTub1) that, together with OsTub6, group in the same clade in the evolutionary phylogenetic tree of plant beta-tubulins. Similarly to OsTub4, the leader intron of OsTub6 is capable of sustaining intron mediated enhancement (IME) of gene expression, in transient expression assays. A general picture is drawn for three rice alpha-tubulin and two rice beta-tubulin genes in which the first intron of the coding sequence for the formers and the intron present in the 5'UTR for the latters, are important elements for controlling gene expression. We used OsTua2:GUS, OsTua3:GUS, OsTub4:GUS and OsTub6:GUS chimeric constructs to investigate the in vivo pattern of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) expression in transgenic rice plants. The influence of the regulatory introns on expression patterns was evaluated for two of them, OsTua2 and OsTub4. We have thus characterized distinct patterns of expression attributable to each tubulin isotype and we have shown that the presence of the regulatory intron can greatly influence both the amount and the actual site of expression. We propose the term Intron Dependent Spatial Expression (IDSE) to highlight this latter effect.
18669171	Half-life estimates of three polychlorodibenzofurans (PCDFs) were calculated using serial blood samples collected over a 15 to 19-year period. Blood fat PCDFs were modeled in eight individuals who were exposed to contaminated rice oil in Japan (Yusho, n = 5) and in Taiwan (Yucheng, n = 3). The elimination kinetics of PCDFs were concentration-dependent, with faster rates observed at higher concentrations and the apparent transition to slower rates occurring at about 1-3 ppb. Average half-lives of 1.1, 2.3, and 1.5 years above the transition concentration and 7.2, 5.7, and 3.5 years below it were estimated for 2,3,4,7,8-pentaCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-hexaCDF, and 1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptaCDF, respectively. A positive linear correlation of half-life with age was observed for the combined group, with a rate of increase of 0.19, 0.12, and 0.05-year half-life per year of increase in age for penta-, hexa-, and hepta-CDF, respectively. The distinctly younger Yucheng patients exhibited far lower variability in half-lives and age-related trends that were quite consistent with the corresponding data on 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) for younger persons exposed in the Seveso incident. These age- and concentration-dependent half-lives for PCDFs may have important risk assessment implications for estimating body burdens. The current study provides limited additional evidence that PCDFs, like TCDD, are more rapidly eliminated in younger individuals.
18670134	A database search of the sequences flanking a member of rice retrotransposon RIRE7 revealed that a 298-bp sequence in the region downstream of the member is a repetitive sequence interspersed in the genome of Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare. Most of the repetitive sequences were flanked by a direct repeat of a target-site sequence, about 14 bp in length. The consensus sequence, 293 bp in length, had no regions encoding any proteins but had sequence motifs of an internal promoter of RNA polymerase III. These indicate that the sequence is a retroposon SINE, designated OsSN1 (Oryza sativa SINE1). OsSN1 is a new rice SINE, because it has no homology with any of the three p-SINE families previously identified from rice, and because it has a stretch of A at the 3' end, unlike p-SINE and any other Gramineae SINEs which have a stretch of T at the 3' end. The Nipponbare genome was found to have many members related to OsSN1, forming two additional new SINE families (designated OsSN2 and OsSN3). OsSN2 and OsSN3 are highly homologous to the 3' and 5' regions of OsSN1, respectively. This suggests that OsSN1 has a mosaic structure, which is generated by sequence exchange (or shuffling) between ancestral OsSN2 and OsSN3. Despite the absence of homology in the 3' regions between OsSN1 (or OsSN2) and OsSN3, a sequence, 5'-TTCTC-3', is commonly present in the region preceding the A stretch at the 3' end. This sequence together with the A stretch and a stem-loop structure found in the region near the A stretch are assumed to be important for retroposition. OsSN members were present in strains of Oryza species, as were p-SINE members. Some of the members showed insertion polymorphism at the respective loci among the rice strains. p-SINE had such polymorphic members, which are useful for classification and phylogenetic analysis of various strains of Oryza species. The polymorphic members of OsSN were more frequently found than those of p-SINE, and therefore, such members are likely to be useful for extensive taxonomic and phylogenetic studies on various rice strains.
18670135	The DROOPING LEAF (DL) gene has an important function in rice development. Loss-of-function mutation of DL fails to form midrib, a strong structure formed in the central region of the leaf, resulting in a drooping leaf phenotype. In addition, severe mutation in DL causes a floral homeotic change, i.e., replacement of the carpels by the stamens. Thus, DL regulates midrib formation in the leaf and carpel specification in the flower. DL encodes a putative transcription factor that belongs to the YABBY family, suggesting that it plays an essential role in these developmental processes by regulating many downstream genes, either directly or indirectly. As a first step to elucidate genetic networks involved in midrib formation, in this paper, we attempt to identify genes regulated by DL in the initial processes of midrib development. By comparing expression profiles in the shoot apex that involves the leaf primordia, we found 90 genes that are upregulated at least two-fold higher in the transgenic plants overexpressing DL (Act1:DL) than in the null dl mutant (dl-sup1), suggesting that these genes are involved in midrib formation under the control of DL. Subsequent RT-PCR analysis of arbitrarily chosen 18 genes suggests that some genes may be involved in only midrib formation, whereas others may be involved in both midrib formation and carpel development.
18670140	Small RNAs including microRNA (miRNA) and small interfering RNA (siRNA) are known as repressors of gene expression. There are many plant proteins involved in small RNA-mediated gene silencing, such as Dicer ribonucleases and RNA-dependent RNA polymerases. However, most of these proteins have been reported to be absent in the late developmental stage of the plant male gamete, pollen. In order to clarify the existence of the small RNAs during maturation of pollen, we cloned and sequenced small RNAs from rice anthers including tricellular pollen. From fifty six candidates of small RNAs, we identified two known miRNAs (miR166 and miR167), eight potential miRNAs, and ten putative heterochromatic siRNAs (hc-siRNAs). RNA gel blot analyses clearly showed that miR166 and miR167 were accumulated in the uninuclear pollen stage of anther development and remained until the tricellular pollen stage. Our cloning and RNA gel blot analyses of small RNAs led us to propose a possible function of small RNA-mediated gene regulation for the development of male gametes in rice.
18670612	Microsatellites or SSRs (simple sequence repeats) are ubiquitous short tandem duplications occurring in eukaryotic organisms. These sequences are among the best marker technologies applied in plant genetics and breeding. The abundant genomic, BAC, and EST sequences available in databases allow the survey regarding presence and location of SSR loci. Additional information concerning primer sequences is also the target of plant geneticists and breeders. In this paper, we describe a utility that integrates SSR searches, frequency of occurrence of motifs and arrangements, primer design, and PCR simulation against other databases. This simulation allows the performance of global alignments and identity and homology searches between different amplified sequences, that is, amplicons. In order to validate the tool functions, SSR discovery searches were performed in a database containing 28 469 nonredundant rice cDNA sequences.
18670890	The tumor-associated glycoprotein 72 (TAG 72) has been shown to be expressed in the majority of human adenocarcinomas. In an effort to develop a technique for the safe and inexpensive production of large quantities of anti-TAG 72 humanized antibody fragments (hzAb) as a future source of clinical-grade proteins, we developed a transgenic rice cell suspension culture system. The in vivo assembly and secretion of hzAb were achieved in a transgenic rice cell culture under the control of the rice alpha amylase 3D (RAmy 3D) expression system, and the biological activities of plant-derived hzAb were determined to be quite similar to those of animal-derived antibody. Purified hzAb was shown to bind to the recombinant antigen, TAG 72, and to bind specifically to human LS 174T colon adenocarcinoma cells expressing the TAG 72 antigen, and this binding occurred to the same extent as was seen with animal-derived antibody. Plant-derived hzAb proved as effective as animal-derived antibody in targeting tumors of xenotransplanted LS 174T cells in nude mice. The results of this study indicate that the hzAb derived from plant cell suspension cultures may have great potential for pharmaceutical applications in the development of future cancer therapeutic and diagnostic protocols.
18670900	This study examined the effects of troposphere ozone (O3) on rice by developing a portable ozone fumigation system and applied to the field in Hanoi, Vietnam. The system was nearly identical to the open top chamber but designed to easily and cheaply assess the O3 sensitivity of local agricultural crops in the actual field. The rice (Oryza sativa L.) was exposed to ozone during the flowering stage at peri-urban experimental site of Hanoi. The fumigation protocols covered five different levels, namely; non-filtered air (ambient) as the control treatment, 32, 62, 85 and 113 ppb in 7-h mean. It was found that observed impacts corresponded well to similar open-top chamber studies in other Asian countries. The methodology and the system left a large room for improvement and called for very careful interpretation and pre-conditions (e.g. low ambient O3 concentration). However, the portable O3 exposure in the field might open a door to the less developed countries to implement the phytotoxic risk assessment of the local agricultural species.
18671868	The classic paradigm of heterotrimeric G-protein signaling describes a heptahelical, membrane-spanning G-protein coupled receptor that physically interacts with an intracellular G alpha subunit of the G-protein heterotrimer to transduce signals. G-protein coupled receptors comprise the largest protein superfamily in metazoa and are physiologically important as they sense highly diverse stimuli and play key roles in human disease. The heterotrimeric G-protein signaling mechanism is conserved across metazoa, and also readily identifiable in plants, but the low sequence conservation of G-protein coupled receptors hampers the identification of novel ones. Using diverse computational methods, we performed whole-proteome analyses of the three dominant model plant species, the herbaceous dicot Arabidopsis thaliana (mouse-eared cress), the monocot Oryza sativa (rice), and the woody dicot Populus trichocarpa (poplar), to identify plant protein sequences most likely to be GPCRs. Our stringent bioinformatic pipeline allowed the high confidence identification of candidate G-protein coupled receptors within the Arabidopsis, Oryza, and Populus proteomes. We extended these computational results through actual wet-bench experiments where we tested over half of our highest ranking Arabidopsis candidate G-protein coupled receptors for the ability to physically couple with GPA1, the sole G alpha in Arabidopsis. We found that seven out of eight tested candidate G-protein coupled receptors do in fact interact with GPA1. We show through G-protein coupled receptor classification and molecular evolutionary analyses that both individual G-protein coupled receptor candidates and candidate G-protein coupled receptor families are conserved across plant species and that, in some cases, this conservation extends to metazoans. Our computational and wet-bench results provide the first step toward understanding the diversity, conservation, and functional roles of plant candidate G-protein coupled receptors.
18676378	The role of root temperature T(R) in regulating the water-uptake capability of rice roots and the possible relationship with aquaporins were investigated. The root hydraulic conductivity Lp(r) decreased with decreasing T(R) in a measured temperature range between 10 degrees C and 35 degrees C. A single break point (T(RC) = 15 degrees C) was detected in the Arrhenius plot for steady-state Lp(r). The temperature dependency of Lp(r) represented by activation energy was low (28 kJ mol(-1)) above T(RC), but the value is slightly higher than that for the water viscosity. Addition of an aquaporin inhibitor, HgCl(2), into root medium reduced osmotic exudation by 97% at 25 degrees C, signifying that aquaporins play a major role in regulating water uptake. Below T(RC), Lp(r) declined precipitously with decreasing T(R) (E(a) = 204 kJ mol(-1)). When T(R) is higher than T(RC), the transient time for reaching the steady-state of Lp(r) after the immediate change in T(R) (from 25 degrees C) was estimated as 10 min, while it was prolonged up to 2-3 h when T(R) < T(RC). The Lp(r) was completely recovered to the initial levels when T(R) was returned back to 25 degrees C. Immunoblot analysis using specific antibodies for the major aquaporin members of PIPs and TIPs in rice roots revealed that there were no significant changes in the abundance of aquaporins during 5 h of low temperature treatment. Considering this result and the significant inhibition of water-uptake by the aquaporin inhibitor, we hypothesize that the decrease in Lp(r) when T(R) < T(RC) was regulated by the activity of aquaporins rather than their abundance.
18676379	Maize (Zea mays L.) shows a high accumulation of silicon (Si), but transporters involved in the uptake and distribution have not been identified. In the present study, we isolated two genes (ZmLsi1 and ZmLsi6), which are homologous to rice influx Si transporter OsLsi1. Heterologous expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes showed that both ZmLsi1 and ZmLsi6 are permeable to silicic acid. ZmLsi1 was mainly expressed in the roots. By contrast, ZmLsi6 was expressed more in the leaf sheaths and blades. Different from OsLsi1, the expression level of both ZmLsi1 and ZmLsi6 was unaffected by Si supply. Immunostaining showed that ZmLsi1 was localized on the plasma membrane of the distal side of root epidermal and hypodermal cells in the seminal and crown roots, and also in cortex cells in lateral roots. In the shoots, ZmLsi6 was found in the xylem parenchyma cells that are adjacent to the vessels in both leaf sheaths and leaf blades. ZmLsi6 in the leaf sheaths and blades also exhibited polar localization on the side facing towards the vessel. Taken together, it can be concluded that ZmLsi1 is an influx transporter of Si, which is responsible for the transport of Si from the external solution to the root cells and that ZmLsi6 mainly functions as a Si transporter for xylem unloading.
18676621	Gene expression in response to Cu stress in rice leaves was quantified using DNA microarray (Agilent 22K Rice Oligo Microarray) and real-time PCR technology. Rice plants were grown in hydroponic solutions containing 0.3 (control), 10, 45, or 130 microM of CuCl(2), and Cu accumulation and photosynthesis inhibition were observed in leaves within 1 d of the start of treatment. Microarray analysis flagged 305 Cu-responsive genes, and their expression profile showed that a large proportion of general and defence stress response genes are up-regulated under excess Cu conditions, whereas photosynthesis and transport-related genes are down-regulated. The Cu sensitivity of each Cu-responsive gene was estimated by the median effective concentration value (EC50) and the range of fold-changes (F) under the highest (130 microM) Cu conditions (|log(2)F|(130)). Our results indicate that defence-related genes involved in phytoalexin and lignin biosynthesis were the most sensitive to Cu, and that plant management of abiotic and pathogen stresses has overlapping components, possibly including signal transduction.
18676878	Postembryonic development in plants depends on the activity of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and root apical meristem (RAM). In Arabidopsis thaliana, CLAVATA signaling negatively regulates the size of the stem cell population in the SAM by repressing WUSCHEL. In other plants, however, studies of factors involved in stem cell maintenance are insufficient. Here, we report that two proteins closely related to CLAVATA3, FLORAL ORGAN NUMBER2 (FON2) and FON2-LIKE CLE PROTEIN1 (FCP1/Os CLE402), have functionally diversified to regulate the different types of meristem in rice (Oryza sativa). Unlike FON2, which regulates the maintenance of flower and inflorescence meristems, FCP1 appears to regulate the maintenance of the vegetative SAM and RAM. Constitutive expression of FCP1 results in consumption of the SAM in the vegetative phase, and application of an FCP1 CLE peptide in vitro disturbs root development by misspecification of cell fates in the RAM. FON1, a putative receptor of FON2, is likely to be unnecessary for these FCP1 functions. Furthermore, we identify a key amino acid residue that discriminates between the actions of FCP1 and FON2. Our results suggest that, although the basic framework of meristem maintenance is conserved in the angiosperms, the functions of the individual factors have diversified during evolution.
1867743	A structured interview was applied through a personal interview to 142 peasant mothers aimed at exploring some beliefs about childhood diarrheal disease and the use of home-made beverages and feeding habits during the illness. The majority answered they used to give a herbal tea (90%) or a rice-based beverage (77%) to their child with diarrhea. Only 18% mentioned the use of oral rehydration packages. Sixty-three percent avoid certain foods while 25% withhold all food, usually for more than 24 hours, to a sick child. It is justified to assess the clinical efficacy of a rice-powder solution in the prevention of severe dehydration, as well as to promote an uninterrupted diet based on locally accepted and available foods, in the home management of a child with acute diarrhea.
18678041	Two approaches were undertaken to characterize the arsenic (As) content of Chinese rice. First, a national market basket survey (n = 240) was conducted in provincial capitals, sourcing grain from China's premier rice production areas. Second, to reflect rural diets, paddy rice (n = 195) directly from farmers fields were collected from three regions in Hunan, a key rice producing province located in southern China. Two of the sites were within mining and smeltery districts, and the third was devoid of large-scale metal processing industries. Arsenic levels were determined in all the samples while a subset (n = 33) were characterized for As species, using a new simple and rapid extraction method suitable for use with Hamilton PRP-X100 anion exchange columns and HPLC-ICP-MS. The vast majority (85%) of the market rice grains possessed total As levels < 150 ng g(-1). The rice collected from mine-impacted regions, however, were found to be highly enriched in As, reaching concentrations of up to 624 ng g(-1). Inorganic As (As(i)) was the predominant species detected in all of the speciated grain, with As(i) levels in some samples exceeding 300 ng g(-1). The As(i) concentration in polished and unpolished Chinese rice was successfully predicted from total As levels. The mean baseline concentrations for As(i) in Chinese market rice based on this survey were estimated to be 96 ng g(-1) while levels in mine-impacted areas were higher with ca. 50% of the rice in one region predicted to fail the national standard.
18678896	Hybrid sterility is a major form of postzygotic reproductive isolation. Although reproductive isolation has been a key issue in evolutionary biology for many decades in a wide range of organisms, only very recently a few genes for reproductive isolation were identified. The Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) is divided into two subspecies, indica and japonica. Hybrids between indica and japonica varieties are usually highly sterile. A special group of rice germplasm, referred to as wide-compatibility varieties, is able to produce highly fertile hybrids when crossed to both indica and japonica. In this study, we cloned S5, a major locus for indica-japonica hybrid sterility and wide compatibility, using a map-based cloning approach. We show that S5 encodes an aspartic protease conditioning embryo-sac fertility. The indica (S5-i) and japonica (S5-j) alleles differ by two nucleotides. The wide compatibility gene (S5-n) has a large deletion in the N terminus of the predicted S5 protein, causing subcellular mislocalization of the protein, and thus is presumably nonfunctional. This triallelic system has a profound implication in the evolution and artificial breeding of cultivated rice. Genetic differentiation between indica and japonica would have been enforced because of the reproductive barrier caused by S5-i and S5-j, and species coherence would have been maintained by gene flow enabled by the wide compatibility gene.
18678910	We demonstrate the application of molecular rotational spectroscopy to measure the conformation isomerization rate of vibrationally excited pent-1-en-4-yne (pentenyne). The rotational spectra of single quantum states of pentenyne are acquired by using a combination of IR-Fourier transform microwave double-resonance spectroscopy and high-resolution, single-photon IR spectroscopy. The quantum states probed in these experiments have energy eigenvalues of approximately 3,330 cm(-1) and lie above the barrier to conformational isomerization. At this energy, the presence of intramolecular vibrational energy redistribution (IVR) is indicated through the extensive local perturbations found in the high-resolution rotation-vibration spectrum of the acetylenic C-H stretch normal-mode fundamental. The fact that the IVR process produces isomerization is deduced through a qualitatively different appearance of the excited-state rotational spectra compared with the pure rotational spectra of pentenyne. The rotational spectra of the vibrationally excited molecular eigenstates display coalescence between the characteristic rotational frequencies of the stable cis and skew conformations of the molecule. This coalescence is observed for quantum states prepared from laser excitation originating in the ground vibrational state of either of the two stable conformers. Experimental isomerization rates are extracted by using a three-state Bloch model of the dynamic rotational spectra that includes the effects of chemical exchange between the stable conformations. The time scale for the conformational isomerization rate of pentenyne at total energy of 3,330 cm(-1) is approximately 25 ps and is 50 times slower than the microcanonical isomerization rate predicted by the statistical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory.
18678949	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight of rice (Oryza sativa L.), one of the most devastating diseases of rice in most rice-growing countries. XometC, a cystathionine gamma-lyase (CGL) like protein that is an antibacterial drug-target protein against Xoo, was cloned, expressed, purified and crystallized. CGL catalyzes the second step in the reverse-transsulfuration pathway, which is essential for the metabolic interconversion of the sulfur-containing amino acids cysteine and methionine. Crystals of two different shapes, plate-shaped and pyramid-shaped, diffracted to 2.9 and 3.2 A resolution and belonged to the primitive orthogonal space group P2(1)2(1)2(1) and the tetragonal space group P4(1) (or P4(3)), with unit-cell parameters a = 73.0, b = 144.9, c = 152.3 A and a = b = 78.2, c = 300.7 A, respectively. For the P2(1)2(1)2(1) crystals, three or four monomers exist in the asymmetric unit with a corresponding V(M) of 3.02 or 2.26 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 59.3 or 45.7%. For the P4(1) (or P4(3)) crystals, four or five monomers exist in the asymmetric unit with a corresponding V(M) of 2.59 or 2.09 A(3) Da(-1) and a solvent content of 52.5 or 40.6%.
18679055	A rice diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) gene, OsBIDK1, which encodes a 499-amino acid protein, was cloned and characterized. OsBIDK1 contains a conserved DGK domain, consisting of a diacylglycerol kinase catalytic subdomain and a diacylglycerol kinase accessory subdomain. Expression of OsBIDK1 in rice seedlings was induced by treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH), a chemical activator of the plant defense response, and by infection with Magnaporthe grisea, causal agent of blast disease. In BTH-treated rice seedlings, expression of OsBIDK1 was induced earlier and at a higher level than in water-treated control seedlings after inoculation with M. grisea. Transgenic tobacco plants that constitutively express the OsBIDK1 gene were generated and disease resistance assays showed that overexpression of OsBIDK1 in transgenic tobacco plants resulted in enhanced resistance against infection by tobacco mosaic virus and Phytophthora parasitica var. nicotianae. These results suggest that OsBIDK1 may play a role in disease resistance responses.
18679559	Soil, water and rice grain samples from field trials conducted under the IPM and non-IPM modules in Kaithal (Haryana) region were analyzed for pendimethalin, atrazine, lindane and chlorpyriphos, and in Dehradun (Uttarakhand) region, samples were analyzed for carbendazim only. The pesticide residues were found below the detectable limit in the soil and water samples of the Kaithal region. From Dehradun region the residues of carbendazim in rice grains were detected at 0.001 mg/kg level, and in soil they were in the range of 0.03-0.001 mg/kg. The insecticides applied in IPM as well as non-IPM trials in both regions were observed to be below the prescribed maximum residue level.
18680157	In recent years, outbreaks of the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stl), have occurred more frequently in China. The objective of this study was to determine the susceptibility of N. lugens to neonicotinoids and other insecticides in major rice production areas in China. Results indicated that substantial variations in the susceptibility to different insecticides existed in N. lugens. Field populations had developed variable resistance levels to neonicotinoids, with a high resistance level to imidacloprid (RR: 135.3-301.3-fold), a medium resistance level to imidaclothiz (RR: 35-41.2-fold), a low resistance level to thiamethoxam (up to 9.9-fold) and no resistance to dinotefuran, nitenpyram and thiacloprid (RR < 3-fold). Further examinations indicated that a field population had developed medium resistance level to fipronil (up to 10.5-fold), and some field populations had evolved a low resistance level to buprofezin. In addition, N. lugens had been able to develop 1424-fold resistance to imidacloprid in the laboratory after the insect was selected with imidacloprid for 26 generations. Long-term use of imidacloprid in a wide range of rice-growing areas might be associated with high levels of resistance in N. lugens. Therefore, insecticide resistance management strategies must be developed to prevent further increase in resistance.
18680254	Rice alpha-oxygenase (RalphaO) catalyzes the insertion of O2 into the Calpha-H bond of various fatty acids. The mechanism is thought to involve a tyrosyl radical as the oxidant on the basis of comparisons to the structurally homologous cyclooxygenase enzymes. Kinetic and spectroscopic results presented here for the wild-type RalphaO and the Tyr379Phe mutant indicate an irreversible H* abstraction mechanism and support the involvement of the proposed catalytic Tyr*. In addition, very large, weakly temperature dependent deuterium kinetic isotope effects (approximately 50) are observed, consistent with extensive nuclear tunneling. RalphaO, thus, presents a novel example where such quantum effects are associated with an amino acid radical-utilizing enzyme.
18680302	2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline (2-AP) was identified as the major flavor compound in aromatic rice varieties Tainung 71 and 72. In order to understand the mechanism of 2-AP biosynthesis in aromatic rice, we studied the formation of putative precursors, Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylic acid and methylglyoxal. The endogenous Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylic acid contents of Tainung 71 and 72 calli reached 191 to 276%, compared to nonaromatic rice Tainung 67. In addition, calli of Tainung 71 and 72 contained 1.30- and 1.36-fold, respectively, higher methylglyoxal levels than that of Tainung 67. Specific enzyme activities of Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylic acid-synthetic enzyme including Delta(1)-pyrolline-5-carboxylic acid synthetase (P5CS) and ornithine aminotransferase (OAT) increased significantly in aromatic rice varieties. The expression levels of P5CS1 and P5CS2 genes were found to be significantly higher in aromatic rice than nonaromatic rice. Results of a tracer experiment with (15)N-labeled glutamic acid revealed that the nitrogen atom of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline was derived from glutamic acid. Upregulation of P5CS in aromatic rice Tainung 72 may contribute to the increase of Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylic acid level and thus leads to the accumulation of an extra amount of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline.
18680372	The feasibility of rapid analysis for oligosaccharides, including isomaltose, isomaltotriose, maltose, and panose, in Chinese rice wine by Fourier transform near-infrared (FT-NIR) spectroscopy together with partial least-squares regression (PLSR) was studied in this work. Forty samples of five brewing years (1996, 1998, 2001, 2003, and 2005) were analyzed by NIR transmission spectroscopy with seven optical path lengths (0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, and 5 mm) between 800 and 2500 nm. Calibration models were established by PLSR with full cross-validation and using high-performance anion-exchange chromatography coupled with pulsed amperometric detection as a reference method. The optimal models were obtained through wavelength selection, in which the correlation coefficients of calibration (r(cal)) for the four sugars were 0.911, 0.938, 0.925, and 0.966, and the root-mean-square errors of calibrations were 0.157, 0.147, 0.358, and 0.355 g/L, respectively. The validation accuracy of the four models, with correlation coefficients of cross-validation (r(cv)) being 0.718, 0.793, 0.681, and 0.873, were not very satisfactory. This might be due to the low concentrations of the four sugars in Chinese rice wine and the influence of some components having structures similar to those of the four sugars. The results obtained in this study indicated that the NIR spectroscopy technique offers screening capability for isomaltose, isomaltotriose, maltose, and panose in Chinese rice wine. Further studies with a larger Chinese rice wine sample should be done to improve the specificity, prediction accuracy, and robustness of the models.
18680374	In order to develop a rapid inexpensive test for cadmium in rice, we identified an antibody specific for cadmium-EDTA complexes; this antibody binds to cadmium-EDTA with a Kd of approximately 10(-8) M. Although the antibody's cross reactivity to magnesium was minimal (Kd approximately 10(-5) M), the high toxicity of cadmium coupled with the high natural occurrence of magnesium in rice resulted in a situation where magnesium interfered with cadmium determination and resulted in falsely elevated estimates of cadmium. Fortunately, the formation constant of EDTA for cadmium is approximately 5 x 10(7) times higher (at pH 7) than the formation constant of EDTA for magnesium, and we were able to eliminate the magnesium interference by judicious selection of the EDTA concentration used in the assay. The resulting equilibria are complex, but we show that a relatively simple two-step model in which cadmium and magnesium compete for EDTA followed by cadmium-EDTA and magnesium-EDTA competing for antibody provided a good fit to the measured data. These analyses enabled appropriate selection of the optimum EDTA concentration for an immunoassay with improved selectivity.
18680420	Starting with the influences of having a father who was an agricultural plant pathologist, I sketch my career through university and research institute from field epidemiology, basic virus characterization to molecular biology. I note what I consider to be the highlights of my scientific career and the events that shaped the development of my thinking. These include secondment to teach in a university in Uganda, a sabbatical year in the University of California, Davis, where I became aware of the emerging DNA technology, studying the molecular biology of Cauliflower mosaic virus, rice tungro viruses, and Banana streak virus with the aim of developing diagnostics and approaches to control of viruses. Bringing these experiences together, I am now involved in facilitating the uptake of the application of biotechnology to crop improvement in developing countries. I conclude with some thoughts on opportunities for young plant pathologists over the next years of rapid change. As I am one of the few British scientists who have had the honor of writing such an article, I also note some of the vagaries of the British system.
1868203	The small subunit ribosomal DNA for a woody actinorhizal, Alnus glutinosa, was isolated by the PCR method. Amplification products were cloned into the Bluescript SK- vector. Full sequence, 1698 bp, was obtained with NS1 to NS8 primers. Sequence alignments were made by UWGCG sequence data analysis computer programs. 18S rDNA sequence of A. glutinosa was compared to analogous segments of four other angiosperms, tomato, rice, maize and soybean. Sequence homologies are discussed and application for the technique is suggested.
18682317	Ascorbic acid (AA) is a potent antioxidant, and its neuroprotective effect has not been established yet. Using the Rice-Vannucci model, we examined the effect of AA on hypoxic-ischemic (HI) injury in the immature rat brain. Under isoflurane anesthesia, 7-day-old rat pups received 750 mg/kg of AA by intraperitoneal injection just before hypoxic exposure; 8% oxygen for 90 min. Vehicle controls received an equal volume of saline. AA decreased a macroscopic brain injury score at 48 and 168 h post-HI compared with vehicle controls (48 h post-HI, AA 1.38+/-0.45 vs. controls 2.94+/-0.24, p<0.05; 168 h post-HI, 1.13+/-0.44 vs. 2.50+/-0.25, p<0.05). AA injection significantly decreased the number of both necrotic and apoptotic cells in cortex, caudate putamen, thalamus and hippocampus, and also seemed to reduce the number of TUNEL-positive cells. Western blot analysis showed that AA significantly suppressed 150/145 kDa subunits of alpha-fodrin breakdown products (FBDP) in cortex, striatum, thalamus and hippocampus at 24 and 48 h post-HI, and also 120 kDa subunit of FBDP in all examined regions except for thalamus, which indicated that AA injection inhibited both calpain and caspase-3 activation. Western blot analysis of nitrotyrosine failed to show inhibition of free radical production by AA, however, our results show that AA inhibits both necrotic and apoptotic cell death and that AA is neuroprotective after HI in immature rat brain.
18684630	The objective of this study was to evaluate the contents of essential elements in the two staple foods (rice and maize flour) consumed by children in Tanzania as a possible selection measure for high nutrient foods in order to combat malnutrition. Samples were analysed using proton-induced X-ray emission (PIXE) at the University of Surrey Ion Beam Centre. The mean concentrations of elements determined in the two staple foods are presented and compared with the mean concentrations published in the literature.
18685183	Arabidopsis E3 ligase salt- and drought-induced RING-finger 1 (SDIR1) has been found to be involved in abscisic acid (ABA)-related stress signaling. SDIR1-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved tolerance to drought. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and rice (Oryza sativa) are two important agronomic crop plants. To determine whether SDIR1 enhances drought resistance in crop plants, SDIR1 transgenic tobacco and rice plants were generated. Ectopic expression of SDIR1 in both plants conferred improved drought tolerance ability. These results suggest that SDIR1 can function as a drought-tolerance gene in both dicotyledons and monocotyledons, and that it can serve as a drought-tolerance engineering candidate gene in crop plants.
18685273	Phytoremediation is the use of plants to remove xenobiotic compounds from the environment. Plants have the inherent ability to detoxify xenobiotic pollutants, but they are generally poor at degrading them. The introduction of genes involved in xenobiotic degradation is aimed at enhancing plants' potential further. Rice (Oryza sativa) is a good candidate for this purpose and has been transformed with genes encoding cytochrome P450 monooxygenases CYP1A1, CYP2B6, and CYP2C19. The transgenic plants were more tolerant to various herbicides than nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants, owing to enhanced metabolism by the introduced P450 enzymes. Transgenic plants were able to remove atrazine and metolachlor from soil. Field testing and risk assessment are very important for developing transgenic plants for phytoremediation. Transgenic rice plants should become useful as herbicide-tolerant crops and for phytoremediation of xenobiotic pollutants in future.
18685722	The Plant Gene Index (PlantGI) database is developed as a web-based search system with search capabilities for keywords to provide information on gene indices specifically for agricultural plants. The database contains specific Gene Index information for ten agricultural species, namely, rice, Chinese cabbage, wheat, maize, soybean, barley, mushroom, Arabidopsis, hot pepper and tomato. PlantGI differs from other Gene Index databases in being specific to agricultural plant species and thus complements services from similar other developments. The database includes options for interactive mining of EST CONTIGS and assembled EST data for user specific keyword queries. The current version of PlantGI contains a total of 34,000 EST CONTIGS data for rice (8488 records), wheat (8560 records), maize (4570 records), soybean (3726 records), barley (3417 records), Chinese cabbage (3602 records), tomato (1236 records), hot pepper (998 records), mushroom (130 records) and Arabidopsis (8 records). The database is available for free at http://www.niab.go.kr/nabic/.
18685815	To evaluate the commercial potential of new microbial feed additive, Issatchenkia orientalis Y266 and Bacillus subtilis B266 from commercial fermented rice bran were tested for their tolerance or resistance to pH, bile, oxgall, and temperature. It was found that the strains grew very well up to pH 3.0 and resistant to relatively high concentrations of bile salt and oxgall. I. orientalis and B. subtilis are extremely tolerant in range of 70-90 degrees C in solid medium. B. subtilis B266 also has excellent tolerant property up to 90 degrees C in liquid medium. The health indexes (the microflora in the small intestines and the antibody titer to Newcastle disease virus) of chicks were significantly improved in the fermented rice bran with these strains (0.25% addition to diet) in comparison with the Avilamycin (20 mg/kg diet)-fed group (p < 0.05). The fermented rice bran-fed group showed a better microbial flora in the small intestines. Accordingly, it would appear that the fermented rice bran with these strains may be a potential candidate for an alternative microbial feed additive.
18686304	The phytohormones gibberellic acid (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) play essential and often antagonistic roles in regulating plant growth, development, and stress responses. Using a proteomics-based approach, we examined the role of GA and ABA in the modulation of protein expression levels during seed germination. Rice seeds were treated with GA (200 microM), ABA (10 microM), ABA followed by GA, GA followed by ABA, and water as a control and then incubated for 3 days. The embryo was dissected from germinated seeds, and proteins were subjected to 2-DE. Approximately, 665 total protein spots were resolved in the 2-D gels. Among them, 16 proteins notably modulated by either GA or ABA were identified by MALDI-TOF MS. Northern analyses demonstrated that expression patterns of 13 of these 16 genes were consistent with those of the proteome analysis. Further examination of two proteins, rice isoflavone resuctase (OsIFR) and rice PR10 (OsPR10), using Western blot and immunolocalization, revealed that both are specifically expressed in the embryo but not in the endosperm and are dramatically downregulated by ABA.
18686529	A vending machine stocked with your most commonly used drugs can be a relatively inexpensive investment in patient and staff satisfaction. Rice Memorial Hospital in Willmar, MN, has installed such a machine, which includes several safeguards: * It has several internal cameras, serving as backup systems to ensure the proper drug is being dispensed to the proper patient. * The machine cannot be accessed by anyone unless they have received a magnetic swipe card from the prescribing physician. * The code is only given to a physician authorized to enter the web portal of the prescription vendor.
18686725	The majority of the population in Bangladesh is employed in manual handling tasks, but adequate protections for these workers do not exist. Conditions at a boulder handling site, saw mill, rice packaging plant and construction site show the need for comprehensive reforms in occupational safety and health legislation and practice in Bangladesh. New policies on training, industrial hygiene, safety equipment, and risk assessment are necessary to protect workers in a rapidly developing economy.
18687674	A huge amount of cDNA and EST resources have been developed for cultivated rice species Oryza sativa; however, only few cDNA resources are available for wild rice species. In this study, we isolated and completely sequenced 1888 putative full-length cDNA (FLcDNA) clones from wild rice Oryza rufipogon Griff. W1943 for comparative analysis between wild and cultivated rice species. Two cDNA libraries were constructed from 3-week-old leaf samples under either normal or cold-treated conditions. Homology searching of these cDNA sequences revealed that >96.8% of the wild rice cDNAs were matched to the cultivated rice O. sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare genome sequence. However, <22% of them were fully matched to the cv. Nipponbare genome sequence. The comparative analysis showed that O. rufipogon W1943 had greater similarity to O. sativa ssp. japonica than to ssp. indica cultivars. In addition, 17 novel rice cDNAs were identified, and 41 putative tissue-specific expression genes were defined through searching the rice massively parallel signature-sequencing database. In conclusion, these FLcDNA clones are a resource for further function verification and could be broadly utilized in rice biological studies.
18687877	Endogenous small RNAs, including microRNAs (miRNAs) and short-interfering RNAs (siRNAs), function as post-transcriptional or transcriptional regulators in plants. miRNA function is essential for normal plant development and therefore is likely to be important in the growth of the rice grain. To investigate the roles of miRNAs in rice grain development, we carried out deep sequencing of the small RNA populations of rice grains at two developmental stages. In a data set of approximately 5.5 million sequences, we found representatives of all 20 conserved plant miRNA families. We used an approach based on the presence of miRNA and miRNA* sequences to identify 39 novel, nonconserved rice miRNA families expressed in grains. Cleavage of predicted target mRNAs was confirmed for a number of the new miRNAs. We identified a putative mirtron, indicating that plants may also use spliced introns as a source of miRNAs. We also identified a miRNA-like long hairpin that generates phased 21 nt small RNAs, strongly expressed in developing grains, and show that these small RNAs act in trans to cleave target mRNAs. Comparison of the population of miRNAs and miRNA-like siRNAs in grains to those in other parts of the rice plant reveals that many are expressed in an organ-specific manner.
18688178	OsMADS1 is a rice MADS box gene necessary for floral development. To identify the key cis-regulatory regions for its expression, we utilized transgenic rice plants expressing GUS fusion constructs. Histochemical analysis revealed that the 5.7-kb OsMADS1 intragenic sequences, encompassing exon 1, intron 1, and a part of exon 2, together with the 1.9-kb 5' upstream promoter region, are required for the GUS expression pattern that coincides with flower-preferential expression of OsMADS1. In contrast, the 5' upstream promoter sequence lacking this intragenic region caused ectopic expression of the reporter gene in both vegetative and reproductive tissues. Notably, incorporation of the intragenic region into the CaMV35S promoter directed the GUS expression pattern similar to that of the endogenous spatial expression of OsMADS1 in flowers. In addition, our transient gene expression assay revealed that the large first intron following the CaMV35S minimal promoter enhances flower-preferential expression of GUS. These results suggest that the OsMADS1 intragenic sequence, largely intron 1, contains a key regulatory region(s) essential for expression.
18688371	Evidence from cross section data indicates that ubiquitin +13 ions lose their secondary and tertiary structure in mass spectrometric experiments. These transitions from the folded state into the near linear final structure occur at the experimental temperatures on time scales that are far too long for conventional molecular dynamics simulations. In this study, an approach to mass spectrometric unfolding processes is developed and a detailed application to an ubiquitin +13 ion system is presented. The approach involves a sequence of molecular dynamics simulations at gradually increasing temperatures leading to identification of major intermediate states, and the unfolding pathway. The unfolding rate at any temperature can then be calculated by a Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (RRK) approach. For ubiquitin +13, three interesting intermediate states were found and the final near linear geometry was computed. The several relevant energy barriers calculated for the process are in the range of 7 to 15 kcal mol(-1). The unfolding time scale at 300 K was computed to be 2 ms. Cross section calculations using a hard sphere scattering model were carried out for the final structure and found to be in good accord with the results of electrospray experiments supporting the theoretical model used. The approach employed here should be applicable to any other solvent-free protein system.
18688729	Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) play a central role in detoxification processes of aldehydes generated in plants when exposed to the stressed conditions. In order to identify genes required for the stresses responses in the grass crop Zea mays, an ALDH (ZmALDH22A1) gene was isolated and characterized. ZmALDH22A1 belongs to the family ALDH22 that is currently known only in plants. The ZmALDH22A1 encodes a protein of 593 amino acids that shares high identity with the orthologs from Saccharum officinarum (95%), Oryza sativa (89%), Triticum aestivum (87%) and Arabidopsis thaliana (77%), respectively. Real-time PCR analysis indicates that ZmALDH22A1 is expressed differentially in different tissues. Various elevated levels of ZmALDH22A1 expression have been detected when the seedling roots exposed to abiotic stresses including dehydration, high salinity and abscisic acid (ABA). Tomato stable transformation of construct expressing the ZmALDH22A1 signal peptide fused with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) driven by the CaMV35S-promoter reveals that the fusion protein is targeted to plastid. Transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing ZmALDH22A1 shows elevated stresses tolerance. Stresses tolerance in transgenic plants is accompanied by a reduction of malondialdehyde (MDA) derived from cellular lipid peroxidation.
18689882	Rice grain width and shape play a crucial role in determining grain quality and yield. The genetic basis of rice grain width was dissected into six additive quantitative trait loci (QTL) and 11 pairs of epistatic QTL using an F(7) recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a single cross between Asominori (japonica) and IR24 (indica). QTL by environment interactions were evaluated in four environments. Chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) harboring the six additive effect QTL were used to evaluate gene action across eight environments. A major, stable QTL, qGW-5, consistently decreased rice grain width in both the Asominori/IR24 RIL and CSSL populations with the genetic background Asominori. By investigating the distorted segregation of phenotypic values of rice grain width and genotypes of molecular markers in BC(4)F(2) and BC(4)F(3) populations, qGW-5 was dissected into a single recessive gene, gw-5, which controlled both grain width and length-width ratio. gw-5 was narrowed down to a 49.7-kb genomic region with high recombination frequencies on chromosome 5 using 6781 BC(4)F(2) individuals and 10 newly developed simple sequence repeat markers. Our results provide a basis for map-based cloning of the gw-5 gene and for marker-aided gene/QTL pyramiding in rice quality breeding.
18690410	A nuclear gene, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) homolog, was cloned from Phyllostachys meyeri as PmFT. Its putative copy number was estimated as four by Southern blot analysis, and the two copies were completely sequenced. Twenty-seven FT homolog sequences of bambusoid and early diverging grasses comprised 172-bp exons, and 357- to 785-bp introns exhibited 0-58.9% pairwise divergence with six modal levels. Parsimony analyses of the FT homologs rooted at Pharus virescens produced six equally parsimonious trees. In the strict consensus tree, five clades were resolved; they were affected by divergence of the intron region rather than exon region. The basal clade was Puelioideae, followed by Olyreae clade including Oryza sativa. Streptogyneae clade combined the Olyreae clade with terminal sister clades of the Bambuseae, i.e., pantropical bamboos and East Asiatic temperate bamboos. The global topology suggested that FT homologs are significant for resolving the tribe level. However, the phylogeny of FT homologs does not resolve monophyly in Bambusoideae because of intercalary positioning by Streptogyneae clade. We discussed the role of FT homologs in controlling the inflorescence architecture and position of Streptogyneae in the bamboo phylogeny.
18691433	Long terminal repeat retrotransposons (LTR elements) are ubiquitous Eukaryotic TEs that transpose through RNA intermediates. Accounting for significant proportion of many plant genomes, LTR elements have been well established as one of the major forces underlying the evolution of plant genome size, structure and function. The accessibility of more than 40% of genomic sequences of the model legume Medicago truncatula (Mt) has made the comprehensive study of its LTR elements possible. We use a newly developed tool LTR_FINDER to identify LTR retrotransposons in the Mt genome and detect 526 full-length elements as well as a great number of copies related to them. These elements constitute about 9.6% of currently available genomic sequences. They are classified into 85 families of which 64 are reported for the first time. The majority of the LTR retrotransposons belong to either Copia or Gypsy superfamily and the others are categorized as TRIMs or LARDs by their length. We find that the copy-number of Copia-like families is 3 times more than that of Gypsy-like ones but the latter contribute more to the genome. The analysis of PBS and protein-coding domain structure of the LTR families reveals that they tend to use only 4-5 types of tRNAs and many families have quite conservative ORFs besides known TE domains. For several important families, we describe in detail their abundance, conservation, insertion time and structure. We investigate the amplification-deletion pattern of the elements and find that the detectable full-length elements are relatively young and most of them were inserted within the last 0.52 MY. We also estimate that more than ten million bp of the Mt genomic sequences have been removed by the deletion of LTR elements and the removal of the full-length structures in Mt has been more rapid than in rice. This report is the first comprehensive description and analysis of LTR retrotransposons in the Mt genome. Many important novel LTR families were discovered and their evolution is elucidated. Our results may outline the LTR retrotransposon landscape of the model legume.
18692183	Cadmium is a well-known nephrotoxic agent with extremely long biological half-time of 10-30 years in human. To investigate the evolution of cadmium-induced renal effects in the population, a number of 148 residents who lived in cadmium-polluted area were followed-up for 3 years after the reduction of cadmium exposure in rice. Urinary cadmium (UCd), beta(2)-microglobulin (B2M) and albumin (ALB) were analyzed in 1995 and 1998, respectively. The results demonstrated that the changes of renal effects of residents depended on the levels of UCd before inflow of cadmium to human body declined. In cases where UCd were less than 10 microg/g creatinine in 1995, evidence was found indicating significant decreases in proteinuria (i.e., B2M and ALB) 3 years later, whereas, in cases where the excretion of UCd exceeded 10 microg/g creatinine in 1995, progression was observed. The study of dose-response relationships between UCd and B2M or ALB also showed that the cadmium-induced renal dysfunction might be reversible if UCd concentration was low-level before exposure decreasing, otherwise it might be irreversible or aggravated.
18693478	Universal fortification of staple foods with iron has been widely promoted as a cost-effective strategy to reduce iron deficiency in developing-country populations. Nonetheless, relatively few efficacy trials have been reported to date to demonstrate impact on iron status. The Ultra Rice technology provides a means of delivering fortificant iron via rice. The objective of this study was to test the efficacy of rice fortified with microencapsulated, micronized iron pyrophosphate to improve the iron status of women in Mexico in a randomized, controlled intervention trial. Nonpregnant, nonlactating women 18 to 49 years of age were recruited from six factories. The women received a daily portion of cooked rice 5 days per week for a period of 6 months, before and after which iron status indicators were determined in venous blood samples. The average intake of iron from the fortificant was 13 mg/day. Mean plasma ferritin concentration and estimated body iron stores were significantly higher, and transferrin receptors were lower, in the iron-fortified rice group following the intervention. Mean hemoglobin concentration also increased in the treatment group, but the increase was significant only when the analysis was restricted to those with baseline hemoglobin < 12.8 g/dL. The absolute reduction in anemia and iron deficiency was 10.3 and 15.1 percentage points, respectively. Total iron intake from fortificant was a significant covariate of change in body iron stores. The overall prevalence of anemia was reduced by 80%. Fortification of rice with iron using this technology is an efficacious strategy for preventing iron deficiency.
18694839	Magnaporthe grisea is the most destructive fungal pathogen of rice and a model organism for studying plant-pathogen interaction. Molecular markers and genetic maps are useful tools for genetic studies. In this study, based on the released genome sequence data of M. grisea, we investigated 446 simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci and developed 313 SSR markers, which showed polymorphisms among nine isolates from rice (including a laboratory strain 2539). The number of alleles of each marker ranged 2-9 with an average of 3.3. The polymorphic information content (PIC) of each marker ranged 0.20-0.89 with an average of 0.53. Using a population derived from a cross between isolates Guy11 and 2539, we constructed a genetic map of M. grisea consisting of 176 SSR markers. The map covers a total length of 1247 cM, equivalent to a physical length of about 35.0 Mb or 93% of the genome, with an average distance of 7.1cM between adjacent markers. A web-based database of the SSR markers and the genetic map was established (http://ibi.zju.edu.cn/pgl/MGM/index.html).
18694840	The rice pathogen Fusarium fujikuroi is well known for its ability to produce the plant hormones gibberellins (GAs). However, the majority of closely related Fusarium species is unable to produce GAs although the GA gene cluster is present in their genomes. In this study, we analyzed five orchid-associated Fusarium isolates for their capacity to produce GAs. Four of them did not produce any GAs and were shown not to contain any GA biosynthetic genes. However, the fifth isolate, which has been identified as F. proliferatum based on five molecular markers, produced significant amounts of GAs in contrast to previously characterized F. proliferatum strains. We focused on the molecular characterization of two GA-specific genes, ggs2 and cps/ks, both inactive in F. proliferatum strain D-02945. Complementation of a F. fujikuroi Deltaggs2 mutant with the ET1 ggs2 gene fully restored GA biosynthesis, confirming that the orchid-associated isolate contains an active gene copy. A possible correlation between GA production and their role in plant-fungal interactions is discussed.
18695876	We have shown previously that hypoxia activates the cyclin D1 promoter via the Jak2/STAT5b pathway in breast cancer cells. Most solid tumors contain hypoxic components and overexpression of cyclin D1. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the molecular mechanism by which momilactone B exerts its inhibitory effects on breast cancer cells. Momilactone B, extracted from Korean rice hulls, suppressed hypoxia-induced increases in phospho-STAT5, STAT5b, cyclin D1, and cdk4 protein levels in human breast cancer cells. STAT5b expression was inhibited by siRNA experiments leading to decreased cyclin D1. The effects of momilactone B on cell growth and apoptosis-related gene expression were investigated in breast cancer cells under hypoxic conditions (2% O2). Bax and p21 expression was found to be up-regulated, whereas ppRb and bcl-2 were down-regulated in momilactone B-treated cells under hypoxic conditions. However, the p53 protein level did not change. Flow cytometry with Annexin-FITC staining showed that the number of apoptotic cells increased in hypoxic cells treated with momilactone B compared with untreated hypoxic cells. Furthermore, caspase activity increased upon treatment with momilactone B under hypoxic conditions. These results indicate that momilactone B inhibits the growth of breast cancer cells, regulates the expression of apoptosis-related genes, and induces apoptosis through STAT5b and a caspase-3 dependent pathway. We suggest that momilactone B accelerates hypoxia-induced apoptosis of human breast cancer cells through STAT5b, and may represent an effective chemopreventive or therapeutic agent against breast cancer.
18695945	cDNA corresponding to OsRad51 protein was isolated from cDNA library of rice flowers (Oryza sativa, Indica cultivar group) and cloned in to pET28a expression vector. The protein was over expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and purified. Purified OsRad51 could bind single and double stranded DNA, however it showed higher affinity for single stranded DNA. Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) studies of OsRad51-DNA complexes showed that this protein formed ring like structures and bound DNA forming filaments. OsRad51 protein promoted renaturation of complementary single strands in to duplex DNA molecules and also showed ATPase activity, which was stimulated by single strand DNA. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays revealed that OsRad51 promoted homology dependent renaturation as well as strand exchange reactions. Renaturation activity was ATP dependent; however strand exchange activity was ATP independent. This is the first report on in vitro characterization of Rad51 protein from crop plants.
18696028	CPP-like genes are members of a small family which features the existence of two similar Cys-rich domains termed CXC domains in their protein products and are distributed widely in plants and animals but do not exist in yeast. The members of this family in plants play an important role in development of reproductive tissue and control of cell division. To gain insights into how CPP-like genes evolved in plants, we conducted a comparative phylogenetic and molecular evolutionary analysis of the CPP-like gene family in Arabidopsis and rice. The results of phylogeny revealed that both gene loss and species-specific expansion contributed to the evolution of this family in Arabidopsis and rice. Both intron gain and intron loss were observed through intron/exon structure analysis for duplicated genes. Our results also suggested that positive selection was a major force during the evolution of CPP-like genes in plants, and most amino acid residues under positive selection were disproportionately located in the region outside the CXC domains. Further analysis revealed that two CXC domains and sequences connecting them might have coevolved during the long evolutionary period.
18696133	In this work, we investigated the production of transglutaminase (TGase) by an Amazonian isolated strain of Bacillus circulans by solid-state cultivation (SSC). Several agro-industrial residues, such as untreated corn grits, milled brewers rice, industrial fibrous soy residue, soy hull, and malt bagasse, were used as substrates for microbial growth and enzyme production. Growth on industrial fibrous soy residue, which is rich in protein and hemicellulose, produced the highest TGase activity (0.74 U g(-1) of dried substrate after 48 h of incubation). A 2(3) central composite design was applied to determine the optimal conditions of aeration, cultivation temperature and inoculum cell concentration to TGase production. The best culture conditions were determined as being 0.6 L air min(-1), 33 degrees C and 10 log (10) CFU g(-1) of dried substrate, respectively. Under the proposed optimized conditions, the model predicted an enzyme production of 1.16 U g(-1) of dried substrate, closely matching the experimental activity of 1.25 U g(-1). Results presented in this work point to the use of this newly isolated B. circulans strain as a potential alternative of microbial source for TGase production by SSC, using inexpensive culture media.
18697304	Land use patterns and the occurrence of Anopheles species larvae were studied in Sukabumi District, West Java, Indonesia, from October 2004 to September 2005. Two land use maps derived using remote sensing were used. One map derived from Quickbird satellite images of 150 km2 of the Simpenan and Ciemas subdistricts (106 degrees 27' 53"-106 degrees 38' 38" E and 6 degrees 59' 59"-7 degrees 8' 46" S) in Sukabumi and one using ASTER images covering 4,000 km2 of Sukabumi District from 106 degrees 22' 15"-107 degrees 4' 1" E and 6 degrees 42' 50" - 7 degrees 26' 13" S. There was a total of 11 Anopheles spp. collected from 209 sampling locations in the area covered by the Quickbird image and a total of 15 Anopheles spp. collected from 1,600 sampling locations in the area covered by the ASTER map. For the area covered by the land use maps, ten species were found to have statistically positive relationships between land use class and species presence: Anopheles aconitus, An. annularis, An. barbirostris. An. flavirostris, An. insulaeflorum, An. kochi, An. maculatus, An. subpictus, An. sundaicus, and An. vagus. Quickbird and ASTER satellite images both produced land maps that were adequate for predicting species presence in an area. The land use classes associated with malaria vector breeding were rice paddy (An. aconitus, An. subpictus), plantation located near or adjacent to human settlements (An. maculatus), bush/shrub (An. aconitus, An. maculatus, An. sundaicus), bare land, and water body land use on the coast located < or = 250 m of the beach (An. sundaicus). Understanding the associations of habitat and species in one area, predictions of species presence or absence can be made prior to a ground survey allowing for accurate vector survey and control planning.
18697307	Studies were conducted between May and June, 2006 to investigate the environmental factors affecting the distribution of An. arabiensis Patton and Culex quinquefasciatus Say in Mwea, Kenya. The sampling unit comprised all non-paddy aquatic habitats and ten randomly selected paddies and canals located within a 200 m radius from the periphery of the study site. Thirteen physico-chemical variables were recorded for each sampling site in each sampling occasion and a sample of mosquito larvae and other aquatic invertebrates collected. The non-paddy aquatic habitats identified included pools and marshes. Morphological identification of 1,974 mosquito larvae yielded four species dominated by Cx. quinquefasciatus (73.2%) and An. arabiensis (25.0%). Pools were associated with significantly higher Cx. quinquefasciatus larval abundance and less diversity of other aquatic invertebrates compared with other habitat types. In contrast, the abundance of An. arabiensis did not differ significantly among habitat types. Culex quinquefasciatus habitats had higher water conductivity and exhibited a higher abundance of other aquatic invertebrates than An. arabiensis habitats. Chi-square analysis indicated that the two species were more likely to coexist in the same habitats than would be expected by chance alone. Anopheles arabiensis larvae were positively associated with dissolved oxygen and adults of family Haliplidae and negatively associated with emergent vegetation and Heptageniidae larvae. Culex quinquefasciatus larvae were positively associated with dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, Chironomidae larvae, and Microvelidae adults and negatively associated with emergent vegetation. These findings suggest that both biotic and abiotic factors play a significant role in niche partitioning among Cx. quinquefasciatus and An. arabiensis, a factor that should be considered when designing an integrated vector control program.
18697315	Studies were conducted to determine the contribution of diverse larval habitats to adult Anopheles arabiensis Patton and Culex quinquefasciatus Say production in a rice land agro-ecosystem in Mwea, Kenya. Two sizes of cages were placed in different habitat types to investigate the influence of non-mosquito invertebrates on larval mortalities and the contribution of each habitat type to mosquito productivities, respectively. These emergence traps had fine netting material covers to prevent adult mosquitoes from ovipositing in the area covered by the trap and immature mosquitoes from entering the cages. The emergence of Anopheles arabiensis in seeps, tire tracks, temporary pools, and paddies was 10.53%, 17.31%, 12.50%, and 2.14%, respectively, while the corresponding values for Cx. quinquefasciatus were 16.85% in tire tracks, 8.39% in temporary pools, and 5.65% in the paddies from 0.125 m3 cages during the study. Cages measuring 1 m3 were placed in different habitat types which included paddy, swamp, marsh, ditch, pool, and seep to determine larval habitat productivity. An. arabiensis was the predominant anopheline species (98.0%, n = 232), although a few Anopheles coustani Laveran (2.0%, n = 5) emerged from the habitats. The productivity for An. arabiensis larvae was 6.0 mosquitoes per m2 for the temporary pools, 5.5 for paddy, 5.4 for marsh, 2.7 for ditch, and 0.6 for seep. The Cx. quinquefasciatus larval habitat productivity was 47.8 mosquitoes per m2 for paddies, 35.7 for ditches, 11.1 for marshes, 4.2 for seeps, 2.4 for swamps, and 1.0 for temporary pools. Pools, paddy, and marsh habitat types were the most productive larval habitats for An. arabiensis while paddy, ditch, and marsh were the most productive larval habitats for Cx. quinquefasciatus. The most common non-mosquito invertebrate composition in the cages included Dytiscidae, Notonectidae, Belostomatidae, and Ephemerellidae, and their presence negatively affected the number of emergent mosquitoes from the cages. In conclusion, freshly formed habitats are the most productive aquatic habitats, while old and more permanent habitats are the least productive due to natural regulation of mosquito immatures.
18697323	This paper characterizes water body types harboring immature mosquitoes in a low-lying area of Haiti and investigates the relationship between immature Anopheles albimanus abundance and aquatic predator presence. Larval An. albimanus were found in permanent and semi-permanent groundwater habitats including (in order of greatest abundance) hoof/footprints, ditches, rice fields, and ground pools. High levels of species co-occurrence were observed in habitats. Among water bodies positive for immature Anopheles, 42.9% also contained immature Culex species. Significant association between An. albimanus abundance and the absence of fish predators was detected. Results from the multivariate negative binomial regression suggest that the interactive effect of increasing distance from the Artibonite River and elevation are positively associated with the abundance of immature An. albimanus. The presence of fish predators was not associated with the abundance of An. albimanus larvae in habitats while controlling for habitat distance and elevation. The results of this study provide baseline entomological information to inform vector control programs in the country.
18697328
18700160	Recombinant human holo-lactoferrin (holo-rhLF) was orally administered, via gavage, to Wistar rats at 1000, 500 and 100mg/kgbw/day for 28 days. The test article, holo-rhLF, was expressed in rice grain, extracted, purified and saturated with iron. During the 28-day period, animals were examined for evidence of toxicity. On day 29, the animals were exsanguinated, examined for gross pathology, and tissues preserved for histopathology. There were no deaths caused by holo-rhLF and in-life physical signs were generally normal. Although statistical differences were noted in some hematology, clinical chemistry and heart/body weight ratios, they were of questionable biological significance. A significantly greater total iron binding capacity (TIBC) was detected in the blood of male animals dosed with holo-rhLF. Serum was analyzed for the presence of IgG and IgE antibodies; demonstrating low levels of IgG antibodies to the human protein, but no increase in IgE antibodies. There was no increase in serum lactoferrin levels. The results of the 28-day oral administration demonstrate a lack of toxicity of holo-rhLF in rats. There were no treatment related, toxicologically relevant changes in clinical signs, growth, food consumption, hematology, clinical chemistry, organ weights or pathology. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) is greater than 1000 mg/kg/day.
18700735	The dipole polarizabilities of Co(n)Bz(m), (n, m = 1-4, m = n, n + 1) clusters are studied by means of an all-electron gradient-corrected density functional theory and finite field method. The dipole moments are relatively large for most of the clusters, implying their asymmetric structures. The total polarizability increases rapidly as cluster size, whereas the average polarizability shows "odd-even" oscillation with relatively large values at (n, n + 1). The polarizabilities exhibit clear shape-dependent variation, and the sandwich structures have systematically larger polarizability and anisotropy than the rice-ball isomers. The dipole polarizabilities are further analyzed in terms of the highest occupied molecular orbital-lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (HOMO-LUMO) gap, ionization potential, and electron delocalization volume. We conclude that the polarizability variations are determined by the interplay between the geometrical and electronic properties of the clusters.
18700826	The nonexpressor of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes (NPR1) protein plays an important role in mediating defense responses activated by pathogens in Arabidopsis. In rice, a disease-resistance pathway similar to the Arabidopsis NPR1-mediated signaling pathway one has been described. Here, we show that constitutive expression of the Arabidopsis NPR1 (AtNPR1) gene in rice confers resistance against fungal and bacterial pathogens. AtNPR1 exerts its protective effects against fungal pathogens by priming the expression of salicylic acid (SA)-responsive endogenous genes, such as the PR1b, TLP (PR5), PR10, and PBZ1. However, expression of AtNPR1 in rice has negative effects on viral infections. The AtNPR1-expressing rice plants showed a higher susceptibility to infection by the Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) which correlated well with a misregulation of RYMV-responsive genes, including expression of the SA-regulated RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 1 gene (OsRDR1). Moreover, AtNPR1 negatively regulates the expression of genes playing a role in the plant response to salt and drought stress (rab21, salT, and dip1), which results in a higher sensitivity of AtNPR1 rice to the two types of abiotic stress. These observations suggest that AtNPR1 has both positive and negative regulatory roles in mediating defense responses against biotic and abiotic stresses.
18701522	Crop domestication can serve as a model of plant evolutionary processes. It involves a series of selection events from standing natural variation and newly occurring mutations and combinations of mutations as a result of natural crossings in populations during local adaptation and propagation of plant lines to other cultivation areas. Our earlier identification of three functional nucleotide polymorphisms (FNPs) of distinct genes involved in the rice domestication process led us to propose a model of the japonica rice domestication process. Here, we examined three more FNPs in two domestication-related genes involved in pigment synthesis during the development of seed pericarp color (Rc and Rd) in 91 landraces (and some modern cultivars) of japonica rice collected from throughout the area of distribution of rice. These polymorphisms were assigned by using genome-wide patterns of restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) and the local origins of the landraces. The results led us to infer the process of japonica rice domestication in more detail and propose a more refined model of the japonica domestication process. In this model, the critical role of the Rc FNP at an early step of the domestication process was highlighted. Independent artificial selections of two defective Rd alleles were found, suggesting a role for Rd other than in pigment synthesis during rice domestication.
18701670	Root growth is mainly determined by cell division and subsequent elongation in the root apical area. Components regulating cell division in root meristematic cells are largely unknown. Previous studies have identified rice (Oryza sativa) ROOT ARCHITECTURE ASSOCIATED1 (OsRAA1) as a regulator in root development. Yet, the function of OsRAA1 at the cellular and molecular levels is unclear. Here, we show that OsRAA1-overexpressed transgenic rice showed reduced primary root growth, increased numbers of cells in metaphase, and reduced numbers of cells in anaphase, which suggests that OsRAA1 is responsible for limiting root growth by inhibiting the onset of anaphase. The expression of OsRAA1 in fission yeast also induced metaphase arrest, which is consistent with the fact that OsRAA1 functions through a conserved mechanism of cell cycle regulation. Moreover, a colocalization assay has shown that OsRAA1 is expressed predominantly at spindles during cell division. Yeast two-hybrid and pull-down assays, as well as a bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay, all have revealed that OsRAA1 interacts with a rice homolog of REGULATORY PARTICLE TRIPLE-A ATPASE4, a component that is involved in the ubiquitin pathway. Treating transgenic rice with specific inhibitors of the 26S proteasome blocked the degradation of OsRAA1 and increased the number of cells in metaphase. Mutation of a putative ubiquitination-targeting D-box (RGSLDLISL) in OsRAA1 interrupted the destruction of OsRAA1 in transgenic yeast. These results suggest that ubiquitination and proteasomic proteolysis are involved in OsRAA1 degradation, which is essential for the onset of anaphase, and that OsRAA1 may modulate root development mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway as a novel regulatory factor of the cell cycle.
18703746	Beneficial effects of soy protein consumption on bone quality have been reported. The effects of other dietary protein sources such as whey protein hydrolysate (WPH) and rice protein isolate (RPI) on bone growth have been less well examined. The current study compared effects of feeding soy protein isolate (SPI), WPH and RPI for 14 d on tibial bone mineral density (BMD) and bone mineral content (BMC) in intact and ovariectomized (OVX) rapidly growing female rats relative to animals fed casein (CAS). The effects of estrogenic status on responses to SPI were also explored. Tibial peripheral quantitative computerized tomography (pQCT) showed all three protein sources had positive effects on either BMD or BMC relative to CAS (P < 0.05), but SPI had greater effects in both intact and OVX female rats. SPI and E2 had positive effects on BMD and BMC in OVX rats (P < 0.05). However, trabecular BMD was lower in a SPI + E2 group compared to a CAS + E2 group. In OVX rats, SPI increased serum bone formation markers, and serum from SPI-fed rats stimulated osteoblastogenesis in ex vivo. SPI also suppressed the bone resorption marker RatLaps (P < 0.05). Both SPI and E2 increased alkaline phosphatase gene expression in bone, but only SPI decreased receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL) and estrogen receptor gene expression (P < 0.05). These data suggest beneficial bone effects of a soy diet in rapidly growing animals and the potential for early soy consumption to increase peak bone mass.
18704169	The mechanisms of evolution of plant viruses are being unraveled, yet the timescale of their evolution remains an enigma. To address this critical issue, the divergence time of plant viruses at the intra- and inter-specific levels was assessed. The time of the most recent common ancestor (TMRCA) of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV; genus Sobemovirus) was calculated by a Bayesian coalescent analysis of the coat protein sequences of 253 isolates collected between 1966 and 2006 from all over Africa. It is inferred that RYMV diversified approximately 200 years ago in Africa, i.e., centuries after rice was domesticated or introduced, and decades before epidemics were reported. The divergence time of sobemoviruses and viruses of related genera was subsequently assessed using the age of RYMV under a relaxed molecular clock for calibration. The divergence time between sobemoviruses and related viruses was estimated to be approximately 9,000 years, that between sobemoviruses and poleroviruses approximately 5,000 years, and that among sobemoviruses approximately 3,000 years. The TMRCA of closely related pairs of sobemoviruses, poleroviruses, and luteoviruses was approximately 500 years, which is a measure of the time associated with plant virus speciation. It is concluded that the diversification of RYMV and related viruses has spanned the history of agriculture, from the Neolithic age to the present.
18704694	Rice (Oryza sativa) has two betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase homologs, BAD1 and BAD2, encoded on chromosome four and chromosome eight respectively. BAD2 is responsible for the characteristic aroma of fragrant rice. Complementary DNA clones of both BAD1 and BAD2 were isolated and expressed in E. coli. BAD2 had optimum activity at pH 10, little to no affinity towards N-acetyl-gamma-aminobutyraldehyde (NAGABald) with a Km of approximately 10 mM and moderate affinity towards gamma-guanidinobutyraldehyde (GGBald) and betaine aldehyde (bet-ald) with Km values of approximately 260 microM and 63 microM respectively. A lower Km of approximately 9 microM was observed with gamma-aminobutyraldehyde (GABald), suggesting BAD2 has a higher affinity towards this substate in vivo. The enzyme encoded on chromosome four, BAD1, had optimum activity at pH 9.5, showed little to no affinity towards bet-ald with a Km of 3 mM and had moderate affinity towards GGBald, NAGABald and GABald with Km values of approximately 545, 420 and 497 microM respectively. BAD1 had a half life roughly double that of BAD2. We discuss the implications of these findings on the pathway of fragrance generation in Basmati and Jasmine rice and the potential of rice to accumulate the osmoprotectant glycine betaine.
18705865	Flagellin is a component of bacterial flagella and acts as a proteinaceous elicitor of defence responses in organisms. Flagellin from a phytopathogenic bacterium, Acidovorax avenae strain N1141, induces immune responses in suspension-cultured rice cells. To analyse the function of flagellin in rice, we fused the N1141 flagellin gene to the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and introduced it into rice. Many of the resulting transgenic rice plants accumulated flagellin at various levels. The transgenic rice developed pale spots in the leaves. The expression of a defence-related gene for phenylalanine ammonia-lyase was induced in the transgenic plants, and H(2)O(2) production and cell death were observed in some plants with high levels of gene expression, suggesting that the flagellin triggers immune responses in the transgenic rice. Transgenic plants inoculated with Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast, showed enhanced resistance to blast, suggesting that the flagellin production confers disease resistance in the transgenic rice.
18706695	Triclosan is an antimicrobial agent widely used in many contemporary consumer and health care products. This study assayed phytotoxicity of triclosan using plant growth tests, soil microbial activity using soil respiration and phosphatase activity tests and soil microbial functional diversity using the Biolog ECO plates. The results showed that triclosan inhibited plant growth in soil, with rice seeds being more sensitive than cucumber seeds with EC50 values of 57 and 108 mg/kg. Soil respiration was significantly inhibited in the treatments with triclosan at concentrations more than 10mg/kg (dry soil) during the first 4 days of incubation, but recovered later on after longer incubation. Phosphatase activity was also inhibited for all the soils treated with triclosan (from 0.1 to 50mg/kg dry soil), but a declining inhibition was observed after 2 days of incubation. Biolog analysis found that triclosan treatment increased the utilization of carbon sources and exerted no adverse effects on the functional diversity of soil microbial community.
18707110	Ferulic acid (FA) is a phenolic antioxidant present in plants, which is widely used in the food and cosmetic industry. In the present study, various agricultural wastes such as maize bran, rice bran, wheat bran, wheat straw, sugar cane baggasse, pineapple peels, orange peels, and pomegranate peels were screened for the presence of esterified FA (EFA). Among the sources screened, maize bran was found to contain the highest amount of EFA. Pineapple peels, orange peels, and pomegranate peels were also found to contain traces of EFA. Alkaline extraction of EFA from maize bran was carried out using 2 M NaOH. Response surface methodology (RSM) was used for optimization of EFA extraction, which resulted in a 1.3-fold increase as compared to the unoptimized conventional extraction technique. FA was analyzed by means of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Purification was carried out by adsorption chromatography using Amberlite XAD-16 followed by preparative high-performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC). The recovery of Amberlite XAD-16 purified FA was up to 57.97% with HPLC purity 50.89%. The fold purity achieved was 1.35. After preparative HPTLC, the maximum HPLC purity obtained was 95.35% along with an increase in fold purity up to 2.53.
18707797	The vacuole, a multifunctional organelle of most plant cells, has very important roles in space filling, osmotic adjustment, storage and digestion. Previous researches suggested that aquaporins in the tonoplast were involved in vacuolar functions. The rice genome contains 33 aquaporin genes, 10 of which encode tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs). However, the function of each individual TIP isoform and the integrated function of TIPs under various physiological conditions remain elusive. Here, five rice TIP members were characterized with water and/or glycerol transport activities using the Xenopus oocyte expression system. OsTIP1;2, OsTIP2;2, OsTIP4;1 and OsTIP5;1 possessed water transport activity. OsTIP1;2, OsTIP3;2 and OsTIP4;1 were demonstrated with glycerol transport activity. Rice TIP expression patterns under various abiotic stress conditions including dehydration, high salinity, abscisic acid (ABA) and during seed germination were investigated by real-time PCR. OsTIP1s (OsTIP1;1 and OsTIP1;2) were highly expressed during seed germination, whereas OsTIP3s (OsTIP3;1 and OsTIP3;2) were specifically expressed in mature seeds with a decrease in expression levels upon germination. The results of this research provided a functional and expression profiles of rice TIPs.
18708105	Human insulin-like growth factor 1(hIGF-1) is essential for cell proliferation and used therapeutically in treating various diseases including diabetes mellitus. Here, we present that a recombinant hIGF-1(rhIGF-1) was expressed fused with the C-terminus of a rice luminal binding protein and accumulated highly in rice seeds, reaching 6.8+/-0.5% of total seed protein. The rhIGF-1 fusion was demonstrated to possess biological activity to stimulate cell proliferation. Importantly, the unprocessed transgenic seeds could significantly increase plasma rhIGF-1 level and reduce blood glucose of diabetic mice via oral delivery. Further studies suggested that transgenic seeds reduced blood glucose of diabetic mice by enhancing islet cells survival and increasing insulin secretion rather than increasing insulin sensitivity. These results indicated the potential of the novel fusion expression system in production and oral delivery of biologically active small peptides for diseases.
18708477	Genes controlling hormone levels have been used to increase grain yields in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and rice (Oryza sativa). We created transgenic rice plants expressing maize (Zea mays), rice, or Arabidopsis thaliana genes encoding sterol C-22 hydroxylases that control brassinosteroid (BR) hormone levels using a promoter that is active in only the stems, leaves, and roots. The transgenic plants produced more tillers and more seed than wild-type plants. The seed were heavier as well, especially the seed at the bases of the spikes that fill the least. These phenotypic changes brought about 15 to 44% increases in grain yield per plant relative to wild-type plants in greenhouse and field trials. Expression of the Arabidopsis C-22 hydroxylase in the embryos or endosperms themselves had no apparent effect on seed weight. These results suggested that BRs stimulate the flow of assimilate from the source to the sink. Microarray and photosynthesis analysis of transgenic plants revealed evidence of enhanced CO(2) assimilation, enlarged glucose pools in the flag leaves, and increased assimilation of glucose to starch in the seed. These results further suggested that BRs stimulate the flow of assimilate. Plants have not been bred directly for seed filling traits, suggesting that genes that control seed filling could be used to further increase grain yield in crop plants.
18708511	Viruses are known to be the most numerous biological entities in soil; however, little is known about their diversity in this environment. In order to explore the genetic diversity of soil viruses, we isolated viruses by centrifugation and sequential filtration before performing a metagenomic investigation. We adopted multiple-displacement amplification (MDA), an isothermal whole-genome amplification method with phi29 polymerase and random hexamers, to amplify viral DNA and construct clone libraries for metagenome sequencing. By the MDA method, the diversity of both single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) viruses and double-stranded DNA viruses could be investigated at the same time. On the contrary, by eliminating the denaturing step in the MDA reaction, only ssDNA viral diversity could be explored selectively. Irrespective of the denaturing step, more than 60% of the soil metagenome sequences did not show significant hits (E-value criterion, 0.001) with previously reported viral sequences. Those hits that were considered to be significant were also distantly related to known ssDNA viruses (average amino acid similarity, approximately 34%). Phylogenetic analysis showed that replication-related proteins (which were the most frequently detected proteins) related to those of ssDNA viruses obtained from the metagenomic sequences were diverse and novel. Putative circular genome components of ssDNA viruses that are unrelated to known viruses were assembled from the metagenomic sequences. In conclusion, ssDNA viral diversity in soil is more complex than previously thought. Soil is therefore a rich pool of previously unknown ssDNA viruses.
18708607	This experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of lemongrass [Cymbopogon citratus (DC.) Stapf.] powder (LGP) on rumen ecology, rumen microorganisms, and digestibility of nutrients. Four ruminally fistulated crossbred (Brahman native) beef cattle were randomly assigned according to a 4 x 4 Latin square design. The dietary treatments were LGP supplementation at 0, 100, 200, and 300 g/d with urea-treated rice straw (5%) fed to allow ad libitum intake. Digestibilities of DM, ether extract, and NDF were significantly different among treatments and were greatest at 100 g/d of supplementation. However, digestibility of CP was decreased with LGP supplementation (P < 0.05), whereas ruminal NH(3)-N and plasma urea N were decreased with incremental additions of LGP (P < 0.05). Ruminal VFA concentrations were similar among supplementation concentrations (P > 0.05). Total viable bacteria, amylolytic bacteria, and cellulolytic bacteria were significantly different among treatments and were greatest at 100 g/d of supplementation (4.7 x 10(9), 1.7 x 10(7), and 2.0 x 10(9) cfu/mL, respectively). Protozoal populations were significantly decreased by LGP supplementation. In addition, efficiency of rumen microbial N synthesis based on OM truly digested in the rumen was enriched by LGP supplementation, especially at 100 g/d (34.2 g of N/kg of OM truly digested in the rumen). Based on this study, it could be concluded that supplementation of LGP at 100 g/d improved digestibilities of nutrients, rumen microbial population, and microbial protein synthesis efficiency, thus improving rumen ecology in beef cattle.
18709924	Phenanthrene (Phe) and pyrene (Pyr) are two typical polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) found in contaminated soil. This study investigated physiological and biochemical responses of rice (Oryza sativa L.) to PAH stress after they were planted in soils contaminated with Phe and Pyr, in the presence or absence of a PAH-degrading bacteria (Acinetobacteria sp.). A number of parameters including biomass and water, chlorophyll and chlorophyll a/b ratio, electrolyte leakage, activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase, and soluble carbohydrate and soluble protein contents were monitored. Results show that rice plants have good resistance and tolerance to lower levels of PAHs stress, while adding high levels of PAHs to soils resulted in adverse effects on rice plants such as a reduction in biomass and damage to photosynthetic function. Water content and SOD activities were the most sensitive indicators of PAH stress among the observed parameters. Inoculation with PAH-degrading bacteria promoted growth and photosynthesis of rice.
18709925	Soil and water contaminated with arsenic (As) pose a major environmental and human health problem in Bangladesh. Phytoremediation, a plant-based technology, may provide an economically viable solution for remediating the As-polluted sites. The use of indigenous plants with a high tolerance and accumulation capacity for As may be a very convenient approach for phytoremediation. To assess the potential of native plant species for phytoremediation, plant and soil samples were collected from four As-contaminated (groundwater) districts in Bangladesh. The main criteria used for selecting plants for phytoremediation were high bioconcentration factors (BCFs) and translocation factors (TFs) of As. From the results of a screening of 49 plant species belonging to 29 families, only one species of fern (Dryopteris filix-mas), three herbs (Blumea lacera, Mikania cordata, and Ageratum conyzoides), and two shrubs (Clerodendrum trichotomum and Ricinus communis) were found to be suitable for phytoremediation. Arsenic bioconcentration and translocation factors > 1 suggest that these plants are As-tolerant accumulators with potential use in phytoextraction. Three floating plants (Eichhornia crassipes, Spirodela polyrhiza, and Azolla pinnata) and a common wetland weed (Monochoria vaginalis) also showed high BCF and TF values; therefore, these plants may be promising candidates for cleaningup As-contaminated surface water and wetland areas. The BCF of Oryza sativa, obtained from As-contaminated districts was > 1, which highlights possible food-chain transfer issues for As-contaminated areas in Bangladesh.
18710514	Wheat, barley, and rye, of tribe Triticeae in the Poaceae, are among the most important crops worldwide but they present many challenges to genomics-aided crop improvement. Brachypodium distachyon, a close relative of those cereals has recently emerged as a model for grass functional genomics. Sequencing of the nuclear and organelle genomes of Brachypodium is one of the first steps towards making this species available as a tool for researchers interested in cereals biology. The chloroplast genome of Brachypodium distachyon was sequenced by a combinational approach using BAC end and shotgun sequences derived from a selected BAC containing the entire chloroplast genome. Comparative analysis indicated that the chloroplast genome is conserved in gene number and organization with respect to those of other cereals. However, several Brachypodium genes evolve at a faster rate than those in other grasses. Sequence analysis reveals that rice and wheat have a ~2.1 kb deletion in their plastid genomes and this deletion must have occurred independently in both species. We demonstrate that BAC libraries can be used to sequence plastid, and likely other organellar, genomes. As expected, the Brachypodium chloroplast genome is very similar to those of other sequenced grasses. The phylogenetic analyses and the pattern of insertions and deletions in the chloroplast genome confirmed that Brachypodium is a close relative of the tribe Triticeae. Nevertheless, we show that some large indels can arise multiple times and may confound phylogenetic reconstruction.
18711220	Seed component structures were grouped into maternal and offspring (embryo and endosperm) tissues to characterize a dormancy quantitative trait locus (QTL) for tissue-specific function using a marker-assisted genetic approach. The approach was devised to test if genotypic/allelic frequencies of a marker tightly linked to the QTL deviate from Mendelian expectations in germinated and nongerminated subpopulations derived from a segregation population of partially after-ripened seeds and was applied to the dormancy QTL qSD12 and qSD7-1 in a nearly isogenic background of rice. Experimental results unambiguously demonstrated that qSD12 functions in the offspring tissue(s) and suggested that qSD7-1 may control dormancy through the maternal tissues. These experiments also provide the first solid evidence that an offspring tissue-imposed dormancy gene contributes to the segregation distortion in a mapping population developed from partially after-ripened seeds and, in part, to the germination heterogeneity of seeds from hybrid plants. Offspring and maternal tissue-imposed dormancy genes express in very early and late stages of the life cycle, respectively, and interact to provide the species with complementary adaptation strategies. The qSD12 locus was narrowed to the region of approximately 600 kbp on a high-resolution map to facilitate cloning and marker-assisted selection of the major dormancy gene.
